did you change your hair?
no.
you might wanna think about it
i missed you.
it says here you exposed yourself to a group of freshmen girls.
it was a bratwurst.  i was eating lunch.
with the teeth of your zipper?
you the new guy?
so they tell me...
c'mon.  I am supposed to give you the tour.
so -- which dakota you from?
north, actually.  how did you   ?
i was kidding. people actually live there?
yeah.  a couple.  we are outnumbered by the cows, though.
how many people were in your old school?
thirty-two.
get out!
how many people go here?
couple thousand. most of them evil
that I am used to.
yeah, but these guys have never seen a horse.  they just jack off to clint eastwood.
that girl -- i --
you burn, you pine, you perish?
who is she?
bianca stratford.  sophomore. do not even think about it
why not?
i could start with your haircut, but it does not matter.  she is not allowed to date until her older sister does.  and that is an impossibility.
katarina stratford.  my, my.  you have been terrorizing ms. blaise again.
expressing my opinion is not a terrorist action.
well, yes, compared to your other choices of expression this year, today's events are quite mild.  by the way, bobby rictor's gonad retrieval operation went quite well, in case you are interested.
i still maintain that he kicked himself in the balls.  i was merely a spectator.
the point is kat -- people perceive you as somewhat ...
tempestuous?
no ... i believe "heinous bitch" is the term used most often.
who is that?
patrick verona   random skid.
that is pat verona? the one who was gone for a year? i heard he was doing porn movies.
I am sure he is completely incapable of doing anything that interesting.
he always look so
block e?
mandella, eat.  starving yourself is a very slow way to die.
just a little.
what is this?
an attempted slit.
i realize that the men of this fine institution are severely lacking, but killing yourself so you can be with william shakespeare is beyond the scope of normal teenage obsessions.  you are venturing far past daytime talk show fodder and entering the world of those who need very expensive therapy.
but imagine the things he would say during sex.
why do girls like that always like guys like that?
because they are bred to.  their mothers liked guys like that, and their grandmothers before them. their gene pool is rarely diluted.
he always have that shit-eating grin?
joey dorsey?  perma-shit-grin.  i wish i could say he is a moron, but he is number twelve in the class.  and a model.  mostly regional stuff, but he is rumored to have a big tube sock ad coming out.
you know french?
sure do ... my mom's from canada
guess who just signed up for a tutor?
you mean I would get a chance to talk to her?
you could consecrate with her, my friend.
the vintage look is over, kat. have not you been reading your sassy?
yeah, and i noticed the only part of you featured in your big kmart spread was your elbow.  tough break.
they are running the rest of me next month.
the people at this school are so incredibly foul.
you could always go with me.  I am sure william has some friends.
yeah, just a minor encounter with the shrew.
that is her?  bianca's sister?
the mewling, rampalian wretch herself.
in the microwave.
make anyone cry today?
where have you been?
nowhere... hi, daddy.
what is a synonym for throbbing?
sarah lawrence is on the other side of the country.
i know.
i thought we decided you were going to school here.  at u of 0.
you decided.
now do not get upset. daddy, but there is this boy... and i think he might ask...
no! you are not dating until your sister starts dating.  end of discussion.
what if she never starts dating?
then neither will you.  and I will get to sleep at night.
but it is not fair -- she is a mutant, daddy!
this from someone whose diary is devoted to favorite grooming tips?
enough!
but she does not want to date.
exactly my point
jesus!  can a man even grab a sandwich before you women start dilating?
tumescent!
you are not helping.
can we make this quick?  roxanne korrine and andrew barrett are having an incredibly horrendous public break- up on the quad.  again.
well, i thought we would start with pronunciation, if that is okay with you.
not the hacking and gagging and spitting part.  please.
okay... then how 'bout we try out some french cuisine.  saturday?  night?
you are asking me out.  that is so cute. what is your name again?
forget it.
no, no, it is my fault -- we did not have a proper introduction ---
cameron.
the thing is, cameron -- I am at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser.  my sister.  i can not date until she does.
seems like she could get a date easy enough...
why?
unsolved mystery.  she used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.
that is a shame.
gosh, if only we could find kat a boyfriend...
let me see what i can do.
i teach her french, get to know her, dazzle her with charm and she falls in love with me.
unlikely, but even so, she still can not go out with you.  so what is the point?
what about him?
you wanna go out with him?
what makes you think he will do it?
he seems like he thrives on danger
no kidding.  he is a criminal.  i heard he lit a state trooper on fire.  he just got out of alcatraz...
they always let felons sit in on honors biology?
I am serious, man, he is whacked.  he sold his own liver on the black market so he could buy new speakers.
forget his reputation.  do you think we have got a plan or not?
did she actually say she would go out with you?
that is what i just said
you know, if you do go out with bianca, you would be set.  you would outrank everyone. strictly a-list.  with me by your side.
i thought you hated those people.
hey -- I have got to have a few clients when i get to wall street.
hey.
are you lost?
nope - just came by to chat
we do not chat.
well, actually, i thought I would run an idea by you.  you know, just to see if you are interested.
we are not.
but she can not go out with you because her sister is this insane head case and no one will go out with her. right?
does this conversation have a purpose?
so what you need to do is recruit a guy who will go out with her.  someone who is up for the job.
you got him involved?
like we had a choice?  besides -- when you let the enemy think he is orchestrating the battle, you are in a position of power. we let him pretend he is calling the shots, and while he is busy setting up the plan, you have time to woo bianca.
so he has this huge raging fit about sarah lawrence and insists that i go to his male-dominated, puking frat boy, number one golf team school. i have no say at all.
william would never have gone to a state school.
william did not even go to high school
that is never been proven
neither has his heterosexuality.
i appreciate your efforts toward a speedy death, but I am consuming.  do you mind?
does it matter?
if i was bianca, it would be, "any school you want, precious.  do not forget your tiara."
i do not understand, patrick.  you have not done anything asinine this week. are you not feeling well?
touch of the flu.
I am at a loss, then.  what should we talk about? your year of absence?
why do not we discuss your driving need to be a hemorrhoid?
what is to discuss?
you were not abused, you are not stupid, and as far as i can tell, you are only slightly psychotic -- so why is it that you are such a fuck-up?
well, you know -- there is the prestige of the job title... and the benefits package is pretty good...
c'esc ma tete. this is my head
right.  see?  you are ready for the quiz.
i do not want to know how to say that though.  i want to know useful things. like where the good stores are.  how much does champagne cost?  stuff like chat.  i have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.
that is because it is such a nice one.
forget french.
how is our little find the wench a date plan progressing?
well, there is someone i think might be --
there.
where?
yeah
what do you think?
two legs, nice rack...
yeah, whatever.  i want you to go out with her.
sure, sparky.  I will get right on it.
you just said
you need money to take a girl out
but you would go out with her if you had the cake?
you got it, verona.  i pick up the tab, you do the honors.
you are going to pay me to take out some girl?
i can not date her sister until that one gets a boyfriend.  and that is the catch. she does not want a boyfriend.
how much?
i can not take a girl like that out on twenty bucks.
fine, thirty.
take it or leave it.  this is not a negotiation.
fifty, and you have got your man.
i mean wo-man.  how ya doin'?
sweating like a pig, actually.  and yourself?
there is a way to get a guy's attention.
my mission in life.
pick you up friday, then
oh, right.  friday.
the night i take you to places you have never been before.  and back.
like where?  the 7-eleven on burnside? do you even know my name, screwboy?
i know a lot more than that
i have the potential to smack the crap out of you if you do not get out of my way.
can you at least start wearing a bra?
you hate me do not you?
i do not really think you warrant that strong an emotion.
then say you will spend dollar night at the track with me.
and why would i do that?
come on -- the ponies, the flat beer, you with money in your eyes, me with my hand on your ass...
you -- covered in my vomit.
seven-thirty?
are you following me?
i was in the laundromat. i saw your car. thought I would say hi.
hi
you are not a big talker, are you?
depends on the topic. my fenders do not really whip me into a verbal frenzy.
hey -- do you mind?
not at all
my insurance does not cover pms
then tell them i had a seizure.
is this about sarah lawrence? you punishing me?
i thought you were punishing me.
why can not we agree on this?
because you are making decisions for me.
as a parent, that is my right
so what i want does not matter?
you are eighteen.  you do not know what you want.  you will not know until you are forty-five and you do not have it.
i want to go to an east coast school! i want you to trust me to make my own choices.  i want --
when i shell out fifty, i expect results.
I am on it
watching the bitch trash my car does not count as a date.
i got her under control. she just acts crazed in public to keep up the image.
i just upped my price
what?
a hundred bucks a date.
forget it.
forget her sister, then.
you got something on your mind?
i counted on you to help my cause. you and that thug are obviously failing. are not we ever going on our date?
you have my word.  as a gentleman
you are sweet.
how do you get your hair to look like that?
eber's deep conditioner every two days. and i never, ever use a blowdryer without the diffuser attachment.
say it
what?
whatever the hell it is you are standin' there waitin' to say.
what plan?
the situation is, my man cameron here has a major jones for bianca stratford.
what is it with this chick?  she have three tits?
i think i speak correctly when i say that cameron's love is pure.  purer than say -- joey dorsey's.
dorsey can plow whoever he wants. I am just in this for the cash.
that is where we can help you.  with kat.
so dorsey can get the girl?
patrick, pat, you are not looking at the big picture.  joey's just a pawn. we set this whole thing up so cameron can get the girl.
you two are gonna help me tame the wild beast?
we are your guys.
and he means that strictly in a non- prison-movie type of way.
yeah -- we will see.
this is it.  a golden opportunity. patrick can ask katarina to the party.
in that case, we will need to make it a school-wide blow out.
will bogey get bent?
are you kidding?  he will piss himself with joy.  he is the ultimate kiss ass.
it is more
expensive?
exactly  so, you going to bogey lowenbrau's thing on saturday?
hopefully.
sure have.
i really, really, really wanna go, but i can't.  not unless my sister goes.
I am workin' on it. but she does not seem to be goin' for him.
she is not a...
lesbian?  no. i found a picture of jared leto in one of her drawers, so I am pretty sure she is not harboring same-sex tendencies.
so that is the kind of guy she likes? pretty ones?
who knows?  all I have ever heard her say is that she would dip before dating a guy that smokes.
what have you got for me?
I have retrieved certain pieces of information on miss katarina stratford i think you will find helpful.
what?!
good enough.
number one.  she hates smokers
it is a lung cancer issue
her favorite uncle
dead at forty-one.
are you telling me I am a -  "non-smoker"?
just for now.
he is pretty!
okay!  i was not sure
okay -- likes:  thai food, feminist prose, and "angry, stinky girl music of the indie-rock persuasion".
so what does that give me?  I am supposed to buy her some noodles and a book and sit around listening to chicks who can not play their instruments?
ever been to club skunk?
yeah.
gigglepuss is playing there tomorrow night.
do not make me do it, man
assail your ears for one night.
it is her favorite band.
i prefer to think of it simply as an alternative to what the law allows.
I am likin' you guys better
oh my god, does this mean you are becoming normal?
it means that gigglepuss is playing at club skunk and we are going.
oh, i thought you might have a date  i do not know why I am bothering to ask, but are you going to bogey lowenstein's party saturday night?
what do you think?
i think you are a freak.  i think you do this to torture me.  and i think you suck.
you think this'll work?
no fear.
always a pleasure, brucie.
did not have you pegged for a gigglepuss fan.  are not they a little too pre-teen belly-button ring for you?
fan of a fan.  you see a couple of minors come in?
never
padua girls.  one tall, decent body. the other one kinda short and undersexed?
just sent 'em through.
hey.  great show, huh?

excuse me?
that is what you want, is not it?
do you mind?  you are sort of ruining it for me.
you know, these guys are no bikini kill or the raincoats, but they are right up there.
you know who the raincoats are?
why, do not you?
what did he say?
who cares?
you told me that part already.
hell, I have just been going over the whole thing in my head and -
i hear you are helpin' verona.
uh,  yeah.  we are old friend*
you and verona?
what?  we took bathes together when we were kids.
you better not fuck this up.  I am heavily invested.
hey -- it is all for the higher good right?
you are completely demented.
see you next week!
daddy, i --
and where are you going?
if you must know, we were attempting to go to a small study group of friends.
otherwise known as an orgy?
it is just a party. daddy, but i knew you would forbid me to go since "gloria steinem" over there is not going --
daddy, people expect me to be there!
if kat's not going, you are not going.
you are ruining my life'  because you will not be normal, i can not be normal.
what is normal?
bogey lowenstein's party is normal, but you are too busy listening to bitches who need prozac to know that.
can not you forget for just one night that you are completely wretched?
at least I am not a clouted fen- sucked hedge-pig.
like I am supposed to know what that even means.
it is shakespeare.  maybe you have heard of him?
yeah, he is your freak friend mandella's boyfriend.  i guess since I am not allowed to go out, i should obsess over a dead guy, too.
oh, god.  it is starting.
it is just a party. daddy.
wear the belly before you go.
daddy, no!
just for a minute
you are so completely unbalanced.
can we go now?
promise me you will not talk to any boys unless your sister is present.
why?
because she will scare them away.
where ya goin?
away.
your sister here?
leave my sister alone.
and why would i do that?
what is this?
"i'm getting trashed, man." is not that what you are supposed to do at a party?
i say, do what you wanna do.
funny, you are the only one
where did he go?  he was just here.
who?
joey.
hi.
looks like things worked out tonight, huh?
you know chastity?
i believe we share an art instructor
great
would you mind getting me a drink, cameron?
extremely unfortunate maneuver.
the hell is that?  what kind of 'guy just picks up a girl and carries her away while you are talking to her?
buttholus extremus.  but hey, you are making progress.
no, i ' m not.
so yeah, I have got the sears catalog thing going -- and the tube sock gig " that is going to be huge.  and then I am up for an ad for queen harry next week.
queen harry?
it is a gay cruise line, but I will be, like, wearing a uniform and stuff.
neat...
my agent says I have got a good shot at being the prada guy next year.
he practically proposed when he found out we had the same dermatologist. i mean. dr. bonchowski is great an all, but he is not exactly relevant party conversation.
is he oily or dry?
combination.  i do not know -- i thought he would be different.  more of a gentleman...
bianca, i do not think the highlights of dating joey dorsey are going to include door-opening and coat-holding.
sometimes i wonder if the guys we are supposed to want to go out with are the ones we actually want to go out with, you know?
all i know is -- I would give up my private line to go out with a guy like joey.
bianca, i need to talk to you -- i need to tell you --
i really do not think i need any social advice from you right now.
it is about time.
a deal's a deal.
how did you do it?
do what?
get her to act like a human
okay?
I am fine. I am
you are not okay.
i just need to lie down for awhile
uh, uh. you lie down and you will go to sleep
i know, just let me sleep
what if you have a concussion? my dog went to sleep with a concussion and woke up a vegetable. not that i could tell the difference...
cameron, I am a little busy
it is off. the whole thing.
what 're you talking about?
she is partial to joey, not me
cameron -- do you like the girl?
sure
then, go get her
this is so patronizing.
leave it to you to use big words when you are shitfaced.
why 're you doing this?
i told you
you do not care if i die
sure, i do
why?
because then I would have to start taking out girls who like me.
like you could find one
see that?  who needs affection when I have got blind hatred?
just let me sit down.
why did you let him get to you?
who?
dorsey.
i hate him.
i know.  it would have to be a pretty big deal to get you to mainline tequila. you do not seem like the type.
hey man. . .  you don ' t think i can be "cool"?  you do not think i can be "laid back" like everyone else?
i thought you were above all that
you know what they say
kat! wake up!
what?
i do not get you.  you act like you are too good for any of this, and then you go totally apeshit when you get here.
you are welcome.
i have to be home in twenty minutes.
i do not have to be home 'til two.
have fun tonight?
tons
and I am in control of it.
but it is gigglepuss - i know you like them.  i saw you there.
when you were gone last year -- where were you?
busy
were you in jail?
maybe.
no, you were not
then why did you ask?
why did you lie?
i should do this.
do what?
this.
start a band?
my father would not approve of that that
you do not strike me as the type that would ask permission.
oh, so now you think you know me?
I am gettin' there
so what ' s up with your dad?  he a pain in the ass?
he just wants me to be someone I am not.
who?
bianca
no offense, but you are sister is without.  i know everyone likes her and all, but ...
i looked for you back at the party, but you always seemed to be "occupied".
i was?
you never wanted to go out with 'me, did you?
well, no...
then that is all you had to say.
but
you always been this selfish?
you went to the party?  i thought we were officially opposed to suburban social activity.
i did not have a choice.
you did not have a choice?  where is kat and what have you done with her?
i did bianca a favor and it backfired.
you did not
i got drunk.  i puked.  i got rejected. it was big fun.
so you got cozy with she who stings?
no - I have got a sweet-payin' job that I am about to lose.
what did you do to her?
i don ' t know.  i decided not to nail her when she was too drunk to remember it.
hey there.  tired of breathing?
hi.
cool pictures.  you a fan?
yeah.  i guess.
you think?
oh yeah.
macbeth, right?
right.
kat a fan, too?
yeah...
she hates you with the fire of a thousand suns .  that is a direct quote
she just needs time to cool off I will give it a day.
you makin' any headway?
she kissed me.
where?
i do not know, dorsey. ..the limo.-the flowers.  another hundred for the tux --
enough with the barbie n' ken shit. i know.
can you even imagine?  who the hell would go to this a bastion of commercial excess?
well, i guess we are not, since we do not have dates .
listen to you!  you sound like betty, all pissed off because archie is taking veronica.
okay, okay, we will not go.  it is not like i have a dress anyway
you ' re looking at this from the wrong perspective.  we are making a statement.
oh, good.  something new and different for us.
hey, sweet cheeks.
hi, joey.
you are concentrating awfully hard considering it is gym class.
listen, i want to talk to you about the prom.
you know the deal.  i can ' t go if kat does not go --
excuse me, have you seen the feminine mystique?  i lost my copy.
what are you doing here?
i heard there was a poetry reading.
you 're so --
pleasant?
wholesome.
unwelcome.
unwelcome?  i guess someone still has her panties in a twist.
do not for one minute think that you had any effect whatsoever on my panties.
so what did i have an effect on ?
other than my upchuck reflex? nothing.
you were right. she is still pissed.
sweet love, renew thy force!
man -- do not say shit like that to  me. people can hear you.
you humiliated the woman! sacrifice yourself on the altar of dignity and even the score.
best case scenario, you are back on the payroll for awhile.
what is the worst?
you get the girl.
he left!  i sprung the dickhead and he cruised on me.
look up, sunshine
i guess i never told you I am afraid of heights.
c'mon.  it is not that bad
try lookin' at it from this angle
put your right foot there --
forget it.  I am stayin'.
you want me to climb up and show you how to get down?
maybe.
the partridge family?
i figured it had to be something ridiculous to win your respect.  and piss you off.
good call.
so how did you get chapin to look the other way?
i dazzled him with my wit
a soft side? who knew?
yeah, well, do not let it get out
so what is your excuse?
acting the way we do.
yes
i do not like to do what people expect. then they expect it all the time and they get disappointed when you change.
so if you disappoint them from the start, you are covered?
something like that
then you screwed up
how?
you never disappointed me.
you up for it?
for. . . ?
state trooper?
fallacy.
the duck?
hearsay.
i know the porn career's a lie.
tell me something true.
i hate peas.
no -- something real.  something no one else knows.
you are sweet.  and sexy.  and completely hot for me.
what?
no one else knows
you are amazingly self-assured. has anyone ever told you that?
go to the prom with me
is that a request or a command?
you know what i mean
no.
no what?
no, i will not go with you
why not?
because i do not want to. it is a stupid tradition.
create a little drama?  start a new rumor?  what?
so i have to have a motive to be with you?
you tell me.
you need therapy.  has anyone ever told you that?
answer the question, patrick
nothing!  there is nothing in it for me. just the pleasure of your company.
then guillermo says, "if you go any lighter, you are going to look like an extra on 90210."
no...
do you listen to this crap?
what crap?
me.  this endless ...blonde babble. I am like, boring myself.
thank god!  if i had to hear one more story about your coiffure...
i figured you would get to the good stuff eventually.
what good stuff?
the "real you".
like my fear of wearing pastels?
I am kidding.  you know how sometimes you just become this "persona"?  and you do not know how to quit?
no
okay -- you are going to need to learn how to lie.
would you rather be ravished by a pirate or a british rear admiral?
pirate -- no question.
daddy, i want to discuss the prom with you. it is tomorrow night --
the prom?  kat has a date?
no, but
it is that hot rod joey, right? that ' s who you want me to bend my rules for?
he is not a "hot rod".  whatever that is.
you are not going unless your sister goes.  end of story.
fine.  i see that I am a prisoner in my own house.  I am not a daughter. I am a possession!
they will dance, they will kiss, they will come home.  let her go.
kissing?  is that what you think happens?  kissing is not what keeps me up to my elbows in placenta all day.
listen, i know you hate having to sit home because I am not susie high school.
like you care.
i do care. but I am a firm believer in doing something for your own reasons, not someone else ' s .
i wish i had that luxury. I am the only sophomore that got asked to the prom and i can not go, because you won ' t.
joey never told you we went out, did he?
what?
in 9th.  for a month
why?
he was, like, a total babe
but you hate joey
now i do.  back then, was a different story.
as in...
he said everyone was doing it.  so i did it.
you did what?
just once.  afterwards, i told him i did not want to anymore.  i was not ready. he got pissed.  then he broke up with me.
but
after that, i swore I would never do anything just because "everyone else" was doing it.  and i have not since. except for bogey's party, and my stunning gastro-intestinal display --
why did not you tell me?
i wanted to let you make up your own mind about him.
no. you didn't!  if you really thought i could make my own decisions, you would have let me go out with him instead of helping daddy hold me hostage.
that is not
I am not stupid enough to repeat your mistakes.
i guess i thought i was protecting you.
god, you are just like him! just keep me locked away in the dark, so i can not experience anything for myself
not all experiences are good, bianca. you can not always trust the people you want to.
i guess I will never know, will i?
what do you wanna watch?  we have got crap, crap, crap or crap
dr. ruth?
I am missing something.
i have a date, daddy.  and he ' s not a captain of oppression like some men we know.
wow
let's go.
have a great time, honey!
but -- who -- what --?
what just happened?
your daughters went to the prom.
did i have anything to say about it?
absolutely not.
that ' s what i thought
how did you get a tux at the last minute?
it is scurvy's.  his date got convicted. where did you get the dress?
it is just something i had.  you know
oh huh
look, I am  -- sorry -- that i questioned your motives.  i was wrong.
have you seen him?
who?
william - he asked me to meet him here.
oh, honey -- tell me we haven't' progressed to full-on hallucinations.
you think you ' re the only sophomore at the prom?
i did.
my grandmother's .
what?
that is where i was last year.  she would never lived alone -- my grandfather died -- i stayed with her.  i was not in jail, i do not know marilyn manson, and I have never slept with a spice girl.  i spent a year sitting next to my grandma on the couch watching wheel of fortune.  end of story.
that ' s completely adorable!
it gets worse -- you still have your freshman yearbook?
wait i...
you were paid to take me out!  by -- the one person i truly hate.  i knew it was a set-up!
it was not like that.
really?  what was it like?  a down payment now, then a bonus for sleeping with me?
i did not care about the money.
you looked beautiful last night, you know.
so did you
she okay?
i hope so.
was that your sister?
yeah.  she left with some bikers big ones.  full of sperm.
funny.
i do not understand the allure of dehydrated food.  is this something i should be hip to?
no, daddy.
so tell me about this dance. was it fun?
parts of it.
which parts?
the part where bianca beat the hell out of some guy.
bianca did what?
what is the matter?  upset that i rubbed off on her?
no -- impressed.
you know, fathers do not like to admit that their daughters are capable of running their own lives.  it means we have become spectators.  bianca still lets me play a few innings.  you have had me on the bleachers for years.  when you go to sarah lawrence, i will not even be able to watch the game.
when i go?
oh, christ.  do not tell me you have changed your mind.  i already sent 'em a check.
let go!
you set me up.
i just wanted --
what? to completely damage me?  to send me to therapy forever? what?
no! i just wanted
am i supposed to feel better? like, right now?  or do i have some time to think about it?
just smack her now.
is that woman a complete fruit-loop or is it just me?
it is just you.
a fender strat. you bought this?
i thought you could use it. when you start your band.
besides, i had some extra cash. some asshole paid me to take out a really great girl.
is that right?
yeah, but then i fucked up. i fell for her.
why is my veggie burger the only burnt object on this grill?
because i like to torture you.
oh, bianca?  can you get me my freshman yearbook?
don ' t you even dare. . .
they do to!
they do not!
patrick -- is that- a.
perm?
