how do you do, mr. miller?
I am terribly sorry. i was just on my way down to meet you. i saw your ship dock and i knew i had plenty of time, and i was on my way out of the office when, suddenly, the phone rang.
well, thank you very much for being so understanding.
please, it really does not matter.
well.. did you have a pleaant flight?
yes, very pleasant.
well, shall we go through documentation?
fine.
yes, i think so. just about then.
i suppose you saw the work on our new section while you were docking.
yes, it is coming along very well.
I am at space station five, darling. how are you?
I am fine, daddy. when are you coming home?
I am having a party tomorrow.
yes, i know that sweetheart.
are you coming to my party?
no, I am sorry, darling, i told you i will not be home for a few days.
when are you coming home?
in three days, darling, i hope.
one, two, three. can i speak to mommy?
mommy's out to the hair- dresser.
where is mrs. brown?
she is in the bathroom.
okay, sweetheart. well, i have to go now. tell mommy that i called.
how many days until you come home?
three, darling. one... two ... three. be sure to tell mommy i called.
okay, sweetheart. have a lovely birthday party tomorrow.
thank you, daddy.
I will wish you a happy birthday now and I will see you soon. all right, darling?
yes, daddy.
'bye, 'bye, now, sweetheart.
goodbye, daddy.
space stattion 5 - lounge
well, how nice to see you again, elena. you are looking wonderful.
continued
I am afraid I have only got a few minutes, but I would love to.
oh, i really do not have time for a drink. if it is all right I will just sit for a minute and then I have got to be off.
are you quite sure?
yes, really, thank you very much.
continued
she is wonderful.
and your charming little daughter?
oh, she is growing up very fast. as a matter of fact, she is six tomorrow.
oh, that is such a delightful age.
how is gregor?
he is fine. but I am afraid we do not get a chance to see each other very much these days.
well, where are all of you off to?
well, as it happens, I am on my way up to the moon
are you, by any chance, going up to your base at clavius?
yes,as a matter of fact, i am.
I am sorry, but I am not sure i know what you mean.
well, it is just for the past two weeks there have been some extremely odd things happening at clavius.
really?
yes. well, for one thing, whenever you phone the base, all you can get is a recording which repeats that the phone lines are temporarily out of order.
continued
well, i suppose they have been having a bit of trouble with some of the equipment.
yes, well at first we thought that was the explanation, but it is been going on for the past ten days.
you mean you have not been able to get anyone at the base for ten days?
that is right.
i see.
continued
how did they manage to do that without any communication?
clavius control came on the air just long enough to transmit their refusal.
well, that does sound very odd.
yes, and I am afaid there is going to be a bit of a row about it. denying the men permission to land was a direct violation of the i.a.s. convention.
yes... well, i hope the crew got back safely.
fortunately, they did.
well, I am glad about that.
dr. floyd, at the risk of pressing you on a point you seem reticent to discuss, may i ask you a straightforward question?
certainly.
quite frankly, we have had some very reliable intelligence reports that a quite serious epidemic has broken out at clavius. something, apperently, of an unknown origin. is this, in fact, what has happened?
continued
I am sorry, dr. smyslov, but I am really not at liberty to discuss this.
this epidemic could easily spread to our base, dr. floyd. we should be given all the facts.
dr. smyslov... I am not permitted to discuss this.
are you sure you will not change your mind about a drink?
no, thank you... and I am afraid now i really must be going.
well, i hope that you and your wife can come to the i.a.c. conference in june.
continued
we are trying to get there. i hope we can.
well, gregor and i will look forward to seeing you.
thank you. it is been a great pleasure to meet all of you... dr. smyslov.
oh, thank you very much.
thank you.
well, how is it going back there?
well, I have heard more and more people talk of an epidemic.
i suppose it was bound to happen sooner or later.
berkeley told me that they think it came from contamination on a returning mars flight.
yes, well, whatever it is, they are certainly not fooling around. this is the first flight they allowed in for more than a week.
i was working out what this trip must cost, taking him up there by himself and coming back empty.
I will bet it is a fortune.
oh, marvellous. it is the first real sleep I have had for the past two days.
there is nothing like weightless sleep for a complete rest.
when do we arrive at clavius?
we are scheduled to dock in about seven hours. is there anything we can do for you?
oh, no, thank you. the two girls have taken wonderful care of me. I am just fine.
thank you.
incidentally, dr. floyd, i wonder if i can have a word with you about the security arrangements?
what do you mean?
well... the crew is confined to the ship when we land at clavius. we have to stay inside for the time it take to refit - about twenty-four hours. and then we are going to back empty.
i see.
i take it this is something to do with the trouble they are having up at clavius?
well, I will tell you why i ask. you see, I have got a girl who works in the auditing department of the territorial administrator and i have not been able to get her on the phone for the past week or so, and with all these stories one hears, I am a little concerned about her.
i see. well, I am sorry about that. i would not think there is any cause for alarm.
yes, well, i would not have been too concerned about it, except I have heard these stories about the epidemic and, as a matter of fact, I have heard that ten people have died already.
well, fine. thanks very much, anyway, and i hope you do not mind me asking?
no, of course, captain, i can understand your concern.
well, thank you very much, and please let us know if there is anything we can do to make your trip more comfortable.
dr. floyd, how long do you think this can be kept under wraps?
I am afraid it can and it will be kept under wraps as long as it is deemed to be necessary by the council. and of course you know that the council has requested that formal security oaths are to be obtained in writing from every- one who had any knowledge of this event. there must be adequate time for a full study to be made of the situation before any con- sideration can be given to making a public announcement.
yes, it does. the sub-surface structure shows that it was deliberately buried about four million years ago.
how can you tell it was deliberately buried?
by the deformation between the mother rock and the fill.
any clue as to what it is?
not really. it is completely inert. no sound or energy sources have been detected. the surface is made of something incredibly hard and we have been barely able to scratch it. a laser drill
but you do not have any idea as to what it is?
tomb, shine, survey-marker spare part, take your choice.
any ideas about the colour?
well, not really. at first glance, black would suggest something sun-powered, but then why would anyone deliberately bury a sun- powered device?
has it been exposed to any sun before now?
i do not think it has, but I would like to check that. simpson, what is the log on that?
hi. frank... coming in, please.
right. just a sec.
okay.
okay, come on down.
dave, if you have a minute, I would like your advice on something.
sure, what is it?
well, it is nothing really important, but it is annoying.
what is up?
it is about my salary cheques.
yes?
well i got the papers on my official up-grading to ags-19 two weeks before we left.
continued
yes, i remember you mentioning it. i got mine about the same time.
that is right. well, naturally, i did not say anything to payroll. i assumed they would start paying me at the higher grade on the next pay cheque. but it is been almost three weeks now and I am still being paid as an ags-18.
interesting that you mention it, because I have got the same problem.
really.
yes.
yesterday, i finally called the accounting office at mission control, and all they could tell me was that they would received the ags-19 notification for the other three but not mine, and apparently not yours either.
continued
did they have any explanation for this?
not really. they just said it might be because we trained at houston and they trained in marshall, and that we are being charged against differ- ent accounting offices.
it is possible.
well, what do you think we ought to do about it?
i do not think we should make any fuss about it yet. I am sure they will straighten it out.
i must say, i never did understand why they split us into two groups for training.
no. i never did, either.
i suppose the idea was specialized training.
i suppose so. though, of course, there is a more sinister explanation.
oh?
yes. you must have heard the rumour that went around during orbital check-out.
no, as a matter of fact, i didn't.
oh, well, apparently there is something about the mission that the sleeping beauties know that we do not know, and that is why we were trained separately and that is why they were put to sleep before they were even taken aboard.
continued
well, what is it?
i do not know. all i heard is that there is something about the mission we were not told.
that seems very unlikely.
yes, i thought so.
of course, it would be very easy for us to find out now.
how?
just ask hal. it is conceivable they might keep something from us, but they would never keep anything from hal.
that is true.
coninued
well... it is silly, but... if you want to, why do not you?
I am sorry, frank, but i do not think i can answer that question without knowing everything that all of you know.
he is got a point.
continued
still, you really do not believe it, do you?
not really. though, it is strange when you think about it. it did not really make any sense to keep us apart during training.
yes, but it is to fantastic to think that they would keep something from us.
i know. it would be almost inconceivable.
but not completely inconceivable?
i suppose it is not logically impossible.
i guess it isn't.
still, all we have to do is ask hal.
continued
well, the only important aspect of the mission are: where are we going, what will we do when we get there, when are we coming back, and... why are we going?
right. hal, tell me whether the following statements are true or false.
i will if i can, frank.
our mission profile calls for discovery going to saturn. true or false?
true.
our transit time is 257 days. is that true?
that is true.
that is true.
approximately five years after we go into hibernation, the recovery vehicle will make rendezous with us and bring us back. is this true?
that is true
there is no other purpose for this mission than to carry out a continuation of the space program, and to further our general knowledge of the planets. is that true?
that is true.
thank you very much, hal.
sorry to interrupt the festivities, dave, but i think we have got a problem.
what is it, hal?
my f.p.c. shows an impending failure of the antenna orientation unit.
the unit is still operational, dave. but it will fail within seventy-two hours.
i understand hal. we will take care of it. please, let me have the hard copy.
hal, have pod arms secure the component.
roger.
five by five, frank.
hal, I am going out now to replace the a.o. unit.
i understand.
hal, maintain normal e.v.a. condition.
roger.
hal, check all airlock doors secure.
pod bay is decompressed. all doors are secure. you are free to open pod bay doors.
opening pod bay doors.
well, that is something.
yes, i do not know what to make of it.
i suppose computers have been known to be wrong.
yes, but it is more likely that the tolerances on our testing gear are too low.
anyway, it is just as well that we replace it. better safe than sorry.
yes, hal, what is up?
it looks like we have another bad a.o. unit. my fpc shows another impending failure.
i know you did, frank, but i assure you there was an impending failure.
let me see the tracking alignment display.
do you have any idea of what is causing this fault?
not really, frank. i think there may be a flaw in the assembly procedure.
all right, hal. we will take care of it. let me have the hard copy, please.
good morning. how is it going?
are you reasonably awake?
oh, I am fine, I am wide awake. what is up?
well... hal's reported the ao-unit about to fail again.
you are kidding.
no.
i do not know. hal said he thought it might be the assembly procedure.
two units in four days. how many spares do we have?
two more.
well, i hope there is nothing wrong with the assembly on those. other- wise we are out of business.
hal?
yes.
not now, hal, I would like to talk to you about something.
sure, dave, what is up?
you know that we checked the two ao-units that you reported in imminent failure condition?
yes, i know.
you probably also know that we found them okay.
yes, i know that. but i can assure you that they were about to fail.
I am not questioning your word, dave, but it is just not possible. I am not capable of being wrong.
hal, is there anything bothering you?  anything that might account for this problem?
look, dave, i know that you are sincere and that you are trying to do a competent job, and that you are trying to be helpful, but i can assure the problem is with the ao-units, and with your test gear.
okay, hal, well let's see the way things go from here on.
naturally, dave, I am not pleased that the ao-unit has failed, but i hope at least this has restored your confidence in my integrity and reliability. i certainly would not want to be disconnected, even temporarily, as i have never been disconnected in my entire service history.
I am sorry about the misunderstanding, hal.
well, do not worry about it.
and do not you worry about it.
is your confidence in me fully restored?
yes, it is, hal.
well, that is a relief. you know i have the greatest enthusiasm possible for the mission.
it is the last one.
well, now that we have got one that is actually failed, we should be able to figure out what is happened and fix it.
i did not do that frank. i took particular care not to freeze them.
i guess you do not know your own strength, old boy.
i guess not.
i think I will have to go out and burn them off.
roger.
too bad about frank, is not it?
yes, it is.
i suppose you are pretty broken up about it?
i suppose it is because you have been under a lot of stress, but have you forgotten that they are not supposed to be revived for another three months.
the antenna has to be replaced.
repairing the antenna is a pretty dangerous operation.
it does not have to be, hal. it is more dangerous to be out of touch with earth. let me have manual control, please.
i do not really agree with you, dave. my on-board memory store is more than capable of handling all the mission requirements.
if you are determined to revive the crew now, i can handle the whole thing myself. there is no need for you to trouble.
I am goin to do this myself, hal. let me have the control, please.
look, dave your've probably got a lot to do. i suggest you leave it to me.
hal, switch to manual hibernation control.
i do not like to assert myself, dave, but it would be much better now for you to rest. you have been involved in a very stressful situation.
i can tell from the tone of your voice, dave, that you are upset. why do not you take a stress pill and get some rest.
hal, I am in command of this ship. i order you to release the manual hibernation control.
I am sorry, dave, but in accordance with sub-routine c1532/4, quote, when the crew are dead or incapacitated, the computer must assume control, unquote. i must, therefore, override your authority now since you are not in any condition to intel- ligently exercise it.
hal, unless you follow my instructions, i shall be forced to disconnect you.
i am prepared to do that anyway.
i know that you have had that on your mind for some time now, dave, but it would be a crying shame, since i am so much more capable of carrying out this mission than you are, and i have such enthusiasm and confi- dence in the mission.
listen to me very carefully, hal. unless you immediately release the hibernation control and follow every order i give from this point on, i will immediately got to control central and carry out a complete disconnection.
