maybe you shoulda stole a better truck, tonto.
you got a real big mouth, convict.
what am i wanted for?
i do not answer questions, i ask 'em...
i do not think your gun's loaded...
this is a .44 magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world. you got to ask yourself just one question. are you feelin' lucky?
i still do not think it is loaded.
hey, you are right.
you are hopeless.
that is the way i see it, too.
I am all wet.
what is wrong with that?
a guy in the bar called me a dumb bitch today.
what did you do?
irrigated his face with the shot of j and b I would just poured him. then i tried to deck the sucker.
i guess he got the message...
then i sit back and i think, i mean, who is to say I am not a dumb bitch.  i work in a bar, right? i can not read a list of my academic credentials to every booze-hound that comes in the place... you are what you do...
positive self-image problem all over again ... you are who you decide you are unless you are the type that lets assholes decide for you.
are not you the one that thinks all psychotherapy is bullshit?
i do think all psychotherapy is bullshit. but just because i think it is bullshit does not mean i do not know something about it.
if this is your idea of sympathetic interest in my problems, I will take brutal indifference.
hey, you know what i really think?
tell me--i'm dyin' to hear it.
i think you are ashamed to tend bar which is sad because you look great in that outfit they make you wear... you pull down four bills a week which is damn good, and you mix the best pina coladas I have ever had... i think that if you need bigger and better things ... then go for em.
how hot are they?
hot?  hey, they are not even room temperature.
how ya doin'?
can not complain.
we got a lot to talk about.
yeah, old times.
we will follow you.  take it slow,okay?
sure, right.
i want to drive awhile.
i am not tired yet.
maybe after we get done with him I am going to buy us some girls.
whaddya mean, buy?
pros.
pay money?
yeah, dummy.  money.
i never paid for it in my life.
it is better when you pay... they let you do anything.
they always let me do anything. i do not want to pay for it.  i never paid for it in my life.
just do what i say, okay? we will pay for the girls and have a good time... do not you trust me?
you know, if you let me come over to your place once in a while, you could put on a clean shirt in the morning.
what makes you think i have any clean shirts at my place?
maybe you ought to buy me one.
maybe i would if i knew when you were coming back.
that is a fairly crummy way to start a morning.
maybe i got a fairly crummy day ahead.
maybe that makes a nice excuse.
maybe you do not know what the hell you are talking about.
when you start with that attitude... it is like i do not know who you are.
what do you want to know?  what difference does it make?  I am the guy in your bed the last three months.  i make you feel good. you make me feel good.  what the hell else do you want from a guy?
i wish you would stop trying to make me mad so i will not care for you... i wish you would give me a little more of a chance.
you know something, jack, you really are hopeless.
that is the way i see it, too.
call me later.
you sure you want me to?
yeah, for some reason, I am sure...
thanks for the coffee.
i think you forgot this. hands him his wallet and badge...
guess people ought to know who i am...
surprise, luther.
whaddya want?  i thought you were locked up-
i want the money, asshole, what do you think?  the money that reggie hid...
i do not know what you are talkin' about.
you want that indian to snap her neck?
instead of worryin' about reggie, you better worry about me...
do not give me this, we were partners.
billy, go ahead, break it...
no! do not kill her.  i can get you the money.
when?
i can not get it until monday. honest.
you chickenshit punk...
honest. the place we stashed it opens monday morning. i can not get it till then. monday morning, that is when it opens. after that, I will get the money to you right away...
come on, you can trust me. please.
you try to mess with us or go to the cops, i promise you, I will put holes in her you would not believe.
maybe that is where I am going to cut your throat.
he is just kiddin', you just keep doin' what i tell ya, you will be okay.
hey, what about me?
and i need one more for my pal. yeah. make her an indian. no, not a turban, you know, a squaw.
hey...
shut up.
what the hell's wrong?  i did not do anything.
what do you want?  what is goin' on?
shut up.
stall.
what do you want?
keep stallin'.
alright, I am coming...hold on.
you lying son of a bitch...
what are you talking about? we did not kill her ...
that is what you say, cates...
yeah.
but that is what you say about all of us all the tine ... we are always the ones fucking up when you tell it...
the truth hurts, does not it, buddy?
somebody steals your gun, you are supposed to file a report.
are you going to tell me about police procedure?  do me a favor, do not give me a bunch of crap.
i guess when two cops die on account of your fuck up you want to keep it as quiet as possible...
is that what this guy ganz had in the hotel?
every last bit of it.  the big guy's room was empty.
I will help you out.
this guy must have had a .44 like yours, jack. now he is got yours.
shit.
billy bear...
backup man from the east bay. worked with ganz a few years ago and sprung him from the road gang.
who are all these?
they all pulled a bunch of jobs with ganz about four years ago.
wait a minute, wait a minute... who is this?
uhh ... wong, henry wong.  he was in on the same job.
tell me that is not the same guy.
hey ... dick tracy.
i think i wanna have a discussion about it with any of the ones still walking.  can we find them?
here's the file. cates checks the file.
one of  em's in the slam.
i want to be left alone on this one. algren was killed with my gun.
yeah, i read the report...
hey, the bastard's got my gun.  i want it back.
jack, come on, there is an official department policy about cop killings. cop killers represent a special priority because any man crazy enough to kill a cop is a greater threat to an unarmed civilian... in other words, we can not seen like we are in the revenge business... i know, we all know the truth's a little different.
yeah...
anthing botherin' you besides losin' your gun?
yeah.  it bothers me when cops get hurt while I am makin' a play. i do not like it.
you might be more of a team player and a little less of a hot dog on this one, jack.
being a hot dog's worked pretty well for me so far... besides, i got a lead...
okay.  you are not a team player. you got to do things your own way. fine.  nail this guy and make us all look good.  but you better watch your ass.  if you screw up, i can promise you, you are goin' down.
you really know how to send a guy out with a great attitude. he starts to go.
jack?
yeah?
try not to get your ass shot to pieces. we got enough dead cops on this one.
I will keep it in mind.
great place for lunch.
yeah, one of my favorites.
you made the front page.
yeah, guess it must have been a slow news day...
jack, are you okay?
sure, okay, fine, no problem... see, there is this kid in jail ... first thing i got to do is go up and see what he knows ...
look, spare me the macho bullshit about your gun...
bullshit?  I will tell you about bullshit.  my gun's a real weapon in the hands of a real maniac who knows how to use it.  it is not my macho bullshit that is killing people, my gun is ...
look, jack, if you make everything your personal responsibility, you will turn into a bad cop.  it is not a practical way to function...
i did not get burned, two cops did. listen, I will tell you about personnel responsibility.  i like to get the job done right.  and if i do not get my job done right... I am for shit.
here it comes again ... the sacred job...
that is right.  I am not like you. I am not going to sit on my ass wondering what is right and what is wrong... there is a psycho out there killing people with my gun and I am going to get him.  because it is my job. and if you do not get that...
i get that. the job first. everything else, especially me, second. i get it. i do not like it.
you got a name, cop?
try cates.  and let's talk in private, okay?
sure, anything you want.
you here to write my life story?
not likely, reggie.  maybe i just need some help.
yeah, i noticed...
ganz is in jail.  he is going to be there two years after I am on the street.
did not work out that way.  he busted out with a big indian. they capped two guards on a road gang. nice meeting you reggie.
yeah?
i can deliver ganz.  but you gotta get me outta here first.
you are crazy.
i can help you, man, but you gotta get me out.  i got to be on the street.  get me outta here.
what is the big deal about you bein' on the street?
i got a lot to protect.
bullshit.
it is the only way you are going to get ganz.
I will think about it.
this prison gives out $400 suits?
what are you talkin' about?  this suit's mine.  it cost $900.
we are supposed to be after a killer, not a string of hookers...
listen, it may be a little out of date. you know, i got a reputation for lookingreal sharp with the ladies...
i do not need to hear your jive. i already got that department taken care of...
you got a girl... shit... the generosityof women never ceases to amaze me.
hey, no way.  take off the bracelets or no deal.
you just do not get it, do your reggie?  there is not any deal. i own your ass.
no way to start a partnership.
get this.  we am not partners. we am not brothers.  we am not friends. I am puttin' you down and keepin' you down until ganz is locked up or dead.  and if ganz gets away, you are going to be sorry we ever met.
shit.  I am already sorry.
yeah.
it looks like you bought it off one of the brothers.
okay, let's get down to it.  i did my part and got you out.  so now you tell me where we are goin'?
do not worry, i got a move for ya. an awesome move. a guy named luther. ganz'll be paying him a visit.  we go to him right away.
luther was part of the gang?
what gang you talkin' about, jack?
i can read a police file, shithead, and quit calling me jack.
just an expression man, do not mean nothin'.
i do not give a damn.  it happens to be my name.
then what are you complainin' about? at least nobody's calling you shithead....
i may call you worse than that.
just up the street, the other side, over there ... now, do not bother knockin' on the door. luther am not the kind of guy that looks for company.
your pal nuts enough to take a shot at me?
luther am not the reliable type. i do not want you shot yet, cates ... not before you been a help to me.
I am helpin' you, huh?
quit playin' cop and undo this cuff, jack, i need to talk to this man.
I am tellin' you to drop the goddam gun.
i got a whole thing about people pointin' guns at me.
just throw me the goddamn gun.
a cop...
i sure am not his fairy godmother... now I am looking for ganz...where is he?
have not seen him for years. that is the truth.
you just took a shot at me, asshole. i think you do know where he is.
who gives a fuck what you think?
hey, this works pretty good.
thank you.
want to try it again?
ganz and billy got my girl, rosalie.
i think i met her.  now tell us something we do not know, like where they stashed her.
i do not know.
he ... he wants me to help him skip town.
when? how?
i dunno ... he is going to call me...
what do you think?
i think you better put him on ice, man.
he is got to take that call ... if there is one.
if you let him run around till tuesday, he is going to run right to ganz and warn him. am not you, motherfucker?
just one.  some lady called.  said she is a little hot-headed sometimes... but she still wants her occasional roommate. she would like to talk it over after she gets off work tonight... if it is humanly possible....
elaine, look, I am in the middle of sone stuff right now... I am not going to have time to come by. i do not know when i can get there.
listen, goddamn it if you think I am happy about it, you are nuts. i just got to take care of a few things, okay?
this is not the way people who care for each other are supposed to behave.
we are on the move. let's go. as they walk toward a corridor.
do you know how close i was to getting some trim.  and you fucked' it up.
yeah, well, my ass bleeds for you. and i did not get you out so you could go on a goddamn "trim" hunt... stop moaning.
speakin' of moans my stomach is startin' to growl.
we eat when i say we eat.
bullshit ... i am not moving  till i get something to eat. you have been treating me like shit ever since i came out here.  if you do not like it, you can take me back to the penitentiary and kiss my hungry black ass good-bye.  and i want some food some place nice.. some good people, nice music...
yeah, I am hungry too. i know of a place. let's go eat.
yeah, i want mandolins, flowers... they move off down the corridor.
who would you call on the phone back at the booking station?
just get in the car and keep your mouth shut.
you really do have onoe, huh, jack... what is her problem besides you?
she is got the same complaint as half the goddamn population.  she can not get the job she is trained for and it pisses her off... anyway, what the fuck do you care?
now, where we goin', convict?
mission district.  gonna find us an indian.
i do not give out the details.
last night, two nights ago, three?
last night.
you have a good time?
sure.  then we had a fight this morning.
at least you took care of business and got the important part in before she came down on you...tell me a little about her.  she got great tits?
well?
it is a long shot, but...billy used to tend bar here a few years back. i heard him talk about it.
this part of town, they will make us for heat the second we walk in. just back me up like you have got a piece...
back you up?  now why would i wanna do that?
if they kick my ass, they will sure as hell carve yours up...
but you can handle it all right, huh? real amazin' how far a gun and a badge can carry some cats...
bullshit.  attitude and experience get you through...
i been in a lot of bars where a white cop rousted me and some of the brothers. all those clowns ever had going for 'em was a gun and a badge...
you need five years training to handle a joint like...
hey, you wanna bet?
i got two problems.  number one, I am not playin' games.  number two, you got nothin' to bet with.
if we come outta this joint with ganz' phone number, or a dead indian, or anything else useful, then you could turn the other way for half an hour while i get laid...
why?  anybody that talks about women as much as you do probably can not get it up anyway.
that is never been one of my problems.
I will tell you what happens if you lose... you tell the truth for once.
what are you talkin' about?
you tell me what ganz busted out for, he is after a lot more than just gettin' out of jail.  and whatever it is, you are part of it.
i do not know what you are talking about. i just wanna see ganz nailed.
the bet's off.
I am going to enjoy this ... here, I will even loan you my badge.
i thought you said bullshit and experience are all it takes.
this place do not seem real popular with the brothers.
my kind of place. i always liked country boys.
yeah.
vodka.
maybe you better have a black russian.
no, man, i think I will have a vodka.
now how is your memory doin'?
fuck off.  i do not know what the hell you are talkin' about.
maybe i better ask around, see what your pals think.
i do not give a shit who you ask.
that was not necessary, buddy. i got this under control.
some of us citizens are with you all the way, officer.
i do not give a damn about his girl...
look, give me a break, you are going to have to settle for her place.  it is the only thing i know.
I am tellin' ya, I am giving you all i know.
try obeyin' the law once in awhile, and i will not have to hassle you...
you made that move, huh?
while you are at it, you can give me the switchblade, too.
there.
must be billy's girl.
come on.
i said police.  now drop the goddamn gun.
do not give me that police shit. you drop it.
how about it?
i used to go with him...i do not know where the hell he is.  i have not seen him for two weeks. and i do not think i will.  he owes me money...
let's go.
wait a minute.  maybe these ladies would like to go a few laps with us.  how about it? i been nearly three years in prison and...
this sucks.  a maniac gets hold of my gun and goes all over the streets killing people with it. so, instead of me being where i oughta be, which is in bed giving my girl the high, hard one, I am out here doing this shit, roaming around with some overdressed, charcoal-colored loser like you.
you wanna leave, man?  let me take care of ganz all by myself.
you?  do not make me laugh.  you can not take care of shit.  you have been dicking me around since we started on this turd-hunt.  all you are good for is games... so far, what i got outta you is nothin'...
I am impressed with you too, jack you did a real good job of busting up a couple of dykes bedded down for the night.
luther knew more than he told me and so do you...now you better tell we what the fuck this is all about.  i gave you 48 hours to come up with something and the clock's runnin' ...
maybe i do not like the way you ask.
who gives a goddamn what you think? you are just a crook that is got a weekendpass ... you are not even a name anymore. just a spear- chucker with a goddamn number stenciled on the back of his prison fatigues...
yeah, right.  you want to try again?
naw, you would just call your pals back to bail you out one more time.
they saved your ass, convict.
one thing's for sure, jack. that is how you will tell the story.
i been waiting a long time for some money.
how much?
half a million.
jesus.
just tell me about the money.
me and my bunch hit a dealer in the middle of a sale. it is the kind of money nobody ever reports stolen. i was sittin' pretty, livin' in the high cotton, then somebody fingered me for another job. ... some psycho who is out there capping people with some cop's gun.
he is after your money.
you catch on real fast...okay, jack, let's talk deal. how much of my money you going to let me keep?
we split 50-50?
not likely, convict.
you gonna let me keep any of it?
depends on how things work out. i believe in the merit system. so far you have not built up any points.
where is the money?
in the trunk of a car.  a lot better than under a mattress, right?
right, partner.
get this. we am not partners. we am not brothers. we am not friends. if ganz gets away with my money, you are going to be sorry we ever met.
yeah.  right.
where is the goddamn car?
you are a real case, you know that, jack?
this'll show you how smart i am. i got it parked.
...for three years?  let's hope it was not a tow-away zone.
you just drove by it.
you son of a bitch. you knew where the money was all along and all we had to do was come here and wait. i almost got my ass blown off twice tonight for nothing.
i was not sure the money was still there until we saw luther. you almost got your ass shot off for nothing once, not twice, jack.
shit.
you took a big chance, leaving this here all this time.
not really.  i figured ganz was put down for a long time.  and i knew luther would never job me on his own.  he is too chickenshit.
guess what?  luther just got in line.
what?
musta got some primo bondsman.
jesus christ.  that is a disgrace the guy pulls a gun on a cop and he is out in 24 hours.  i tell you some of the courts these days are just a fucking revolving door.
yeah?
i want to pick up my car.
name?
hammond.
this is three years old.
yeah, I have been busy.
we do not wash 'em, ya know.
how about chargin' the battery?
that we do. and we put air in the tires. I will even sell you some gas if you need it.
great, just great.
jesus christ, look at all the dust on my car...why in the hell do not he take it to a car wash?
did not know you darker people went in for foreign jobs.
i had no choice. some white asshole bought the last piece of shit skyblue cadillac.
you would think the guy'd be smart enough to know he was being tailed.
tryin' to save his girl, man. he is in another world.
if i was his size and had ganz on my ass, I would  just leave town.
I am tellin' you the man's in love... he wants to be a hero for his girl.
oh, yeah, does bein' in love make you stupid?
i suppose you would never be like luther and let a woman get to you...
i let women get to me.  the quest for pussy is the meaning of life ... i got my own personal philosophy about 'em.  keep women separate from guns, money and business ... women are for spending money.  they got nothing to do with helping you make it.
that am not philosophy.  that is common sense.
say, do you always work people over like you did luther?
if they do not tell me what i need to know...
does not it get... tiring?
I am not in this 'cause it is fun. I am not into hitting guys 'cause it makes me feel good either... i do it 'cause it works-...
you got a very depressing view of life, man... you gotta smile once in awhile...
maybe luther hopes ganz'll give him a piece of your money...
if he is hoping that then he is dumber than i think he is, which would be amazin', cause i already think he is real dumb.
a long time agb luther must of got the shit beat out of him so bad it just rattled his brain ... that would account for him making so many wrong moves in a row...
yeah, it does not look like he is going to make it as a dangerous tough guy...
you know, I would be embarrassed if i let my wheels go the way you have done with this job.
what you do not understand is, i do not give a damn about how this thing looks.
no class...
class is not somethin' you buy, punk. look at you, five hundred dollar suit and you are still a lowlife.
we are getting too close ... cates, what is the matter, you been takin' dumb pills?
yeah, most cops are pretty dumb... but since you are the one that landed in jail what is that make you?
that was in style a couple years back, man.
right. if you ever switch from armed robbery to pimping, then you are all set.
bullshit. then I am staying with the money.
you stay with me...
no way...
what the bell happened?
i lost them, that is what happened.
how did they get away?
they ran.  as fast as they could. caught a train.
which one pulled the trigger?
the indian.  i was about 30 yards away.
you could not get to him?
what a screw-up.
right.  i screwed up.  i fucked up. i messed up.  anybody could have done better, especially you. i bet you are real good at hitting targets through crowds.
do not duck the bullet cates. why did not you call in for backup instead of makin' a grandstand play?
i did not have the time.
too bad, it would have covered your ass.  now you are in the shit and so's the department. in case you have not noticed, this was not our finest hour... i told you everyone was watchin' on this one. maybe you better start thinkin' about writin' tickets off a three wheel bike.
how you doing, man?
not bad, not bad.
you want to go outside?
naw, right here's okay.
you sure?
I am sure.  everybody here's looking at everybody else's ass.
how about some ammo?
it is loaded... i got some shells in here.
how much?
this is clean shit.  no serial numbers and never been used...
do not mess with me. how much?
five bills.
five.  on credit.
this am not a credit business.
yeah, i know that, but this is me and we are old friends. i have not got the money so what are you going to do about it?
give it back.
try and take it.
fuck you.  you got no right for this kind of play.
I will got your money to you. no sweat.
you look awful.
so do you...been a long day.
long night, too, from what i heard ... word's going around that in addition to losing ganz for the second time, and in addition to haden busting you back to patrolman, some jig beat the crap out of you.
aw, bullshit, you heard wrong.
does not look like it.
nothing came in for me yet?  no calls?
nothing.
bullshit red tape.
I am heading out. how about you?
i got to wait for a call.
okay.  see you in the morning... you know, you ought to get some rest...
I am at work, asshole.  where else?
elaine! i... I am sorry... i was expecting somebody else... police business.
no wonder you are so popular.
no, it is I am just surprised you called.
so am i.
i almost forgot.  that pal of yours from the vice squad wants you to call him.
what?
jesus christ.  why the hell did not you tell me before?
I am not paid to take your personal calls.  he was in some bar. .. off duty.
the number ... what is the goddamn number?
jack?  what was that?
elaine, i gotta put you on hold...
jack, wait...
just a second, that is all!
hey, jack, how ya doin'? what took you so long to call, man? i been waitin' ... I am at vroman's up in the fillmore. yeah, vroman's... 'course you do not hang out here; it is for the brothers.
I will be there in a minute. you do not move your ass, right?
I am candy...
excuse me, baby, but if i do not get some action tonight, I am going to bust.  you interested?
hey, what kind of talk is that?
oh ... you are a schoolteacher...
no, i go to a school to learn how to do hair. it is a government program. but really i want to be a model - and i am definitely not sellin'.
goodbye.
hey, do not you think a hair stylists got any interest in gettin' it on?
here you go sweetheart, throw it my way.
you are in a hurry.
yeah, i been waiting three years.
you just quit bein' a priest or somethin'?
no, baby, nothin' like that. look, there is a place across the street. we can go right over there...
what is the matter with my place?
no, it is got to be here and now. believe me. only i do not have the damn money for a room...
where is luther?
be polite. say hello.  this is candy.
hello. and goodbye.
well, maybe I will see you later ...
here's hoping, baby...
what about luther?
what about ganz?
we missed.
you missed ... luther took a taxi to the hotel across the street. made a phone call.
maybe we should pay luther a visit.
let him get some sleep.  he is going to need it.
they must have set up a meeting for the morning; luther left an 8 am wake-up and put up the "don't disturb" sign.  he is trading his girl for the money.  all we have to do to grab ganz is not go blind.
so you took the rest of the night off...
tell me something.  why did not you just take the money off luther and split?
forget it. i want ganz as bad as you do and i got some other news for you...
i do not know why, but I am going to let you keep it. maybe because you told me you had it, or maybe just because I am too tired to argue...
you sure that is the reason?
thanks for callin' in... and i guess maybe... look, I am sorry i called you watermellon nigger... those kinds of things. i was just leanin' on ya, doin' my job.
bein' good at your job do not explain everything, jack ...
yeah. guess not.
yeah, i see her.
i can just take her right across the street to luther's hotel.  all i need is some money for the room.
hello, again.
i just struck it rich... i think we can do a little business.  as a matter of fact, i think we can have a party.
hello.
hi, it is me...
fuck you.
that was quick.
when you been in prison three years, it do not take long. let's go.
why?
luther's on the move...
let her go.
first, the money.
rosalie, you okay?
what are you talkin' about? i said i would not hurt her.
notice something funny about that bus?
yeah. it missed the last four stops.
he is got more brains and more guts in one corner of his asshole than any cop I have worked with.
just cause you say it with conviction do not mean shit to me... how you going to take to a pink slip, huh?.
where the christ do you think you are going?
I am taking my prisoner back to jail.
hey, how did my car get here?
i had it impounded.  come on, we will use it for haulin' you back to the slam.
back to jail in my own car.  ganz got away. got all my money. it just do not seem right.
i do not know about you, but i could use a drink... I will buy you one.  it will be my good-bye present.
sorry we did not do better, jack. i feel like i let you down.
naw, you did not let me down.  it was a long shot all the way.  we gave 'em a good run at it.
yeah, but we did not get 'em.
it is late, they are closing...
do not worry about it.
hey, i do not believe it.
hiya, kid.
i ought to have you and your friend thrown out...
don't.  we have had a hard night.
i can see that.  pardon me for saying so, but you look like shit.  what happened?
we and my pal here have been taking it on the chin for the last few hours...
who the hell are you?
name's hammond, reggie hammond. i heard a lot about you. and any friend of jack's is a friend of mine.
I am not so sure i can say the same thing...you do not look like a cop.
well, i been workin' the other side of the street for the last few years.  and you do not exactly look like a shrink, wearin' that dress...
shrink major, not a shrink.
you real down?
I have been better...dead end.  no ganz, no indian.
hard man to live with.
how would you know?
hey, two days with him is enough.
that is no bull.
nothing.  no sign of ganz.  no sign of the indian.  airport's clean.  train station. bus station.  docks... shit...
ganz is going to be hard to track. just a pure schizo ... wires all crossed... totally without any pattern... kill anybody... the indian... himself... anybody...
how do you know?
jack, it is all over the papers. he is an obvious type.  but this indian...
he was the only one of my bunch that was my friend... he was loyal, went all the way for you...
in all due respect, he sounds kind of pathetic to me.  the kind of guy that runs home to his momma or some girlfriend.  have you two ace detectives checked that out?
yeah, well the only woman of the indian's we ran into was shacked up with her dyke girlfriend.  i guess she went with him before she came outta the closet ... they both looked mad enough to kill him...
yeah, too bad.  they were real nice lookin' too...in bed together, hardly any clothes one watching tv...
what makes you think they were lesbians, or as you so quaintly put it, dykes?
come on, they were a little old for a slumber party.
it might pay to reexamine a few of your more primitive notions.  i was in bed with a girlfriend watching tv last week, jack, and one thing we know about me is i happen not to be a lesbian ... now, if this indian's girlfriend got upset when you came looking for him, it could just be she is still vulnerable to him.
so what?
when a guy hurts you, then comes back bleeding on his hands and knees, who knows, he might just be irrestible.
hey, come on, shrink time's over. they would not go see some old girlfriend.
oh, yeah, well look where you came when you were down and out.
whaddya think?
what do i know?  I am just a bartender.
let's go, reggie.
do i get to kiss her too?
if she is right, and if you do not screw up.
what if your girl's theory turns out to be bullshit?  i mean, they could be in rio de janeiro.
I have got to play it rough with them. if they know anything, I am going to know it.
hey, there she is...
whatever play i maker just back me up.
if we run into billy first, let me try and talk him in.
sure, I will give you a shot at it, but ganz is mine.  you know, that big indian plays it for keeps...
yeah, and i know ganz sure am not no sweetheart... i would not like it if this partnership ended before it gets started.
partnership?
well, you got to admit we come a long way.
i hear you have got visitors.
would you guys...
no time for any of that crap any more, lady... I will rip your lungs out if you do not answer fast.
you and the other one, you are still billy's girls. you always were his girls...
yeah.  sure, I am crazy in love with him, who would not be...
you are going to help us take him.
no chance.
he can live or die ... you let us in and he is got a chance to make it.  otherwise, he gets ventilated.
where is ganz?
in the back.  down the other corridor.
after i get outta this, cop...i'm going to live forever...
i do not think you are going to make it.
whaddya mean...i got your gun ... i got his money... i got everything...
i got hit.  i can not believe it. i got shot.
you are done.  end of story.
i am not going to beg for my life. it am not cool.
you okay?
yeah.  but i was not there for a second.
you did pick a real strange time to go and be brave all on your own...
how did they take it back at headquarters?
usual bullshit.  you make one smart move and everybody wants to be your friend... you know somethin', shootin' guys sucks. especially compared to this.
I have been waiting a long time to hear you say that.
yeah, bein' a hard-ass all the time is a real drag, but it works.
three more hours...
where is he?
promised I would turn my back while he... ah, never mind...
tell me.
he is takin' care of the same business I will be takin' care of - soon as i dry off.
you are impossible...
that is what i always say.
here you go, baby.
hey, do not do that.  i said i was not a pro, remember?
hey, no, I am tryin' to be nice. buy yourself something pretty. I would do it, but i got to go.  i got this cop waitin' for me...
I will buy ya the best dinner in san francisco...how'd that be? then we will go dancin', okay?
now you are talkin'. see ya...
okay, reggie, start bustin' my chops... tell me how great you were with that chick.
hey, jack, real men do not have to go in for that macho bullshit ... but i was fantastic.
wait a minute, cates.  I have been waitin' three years for that.  i do not think it is fair, man. what about the merit system.? you were gonnna give me a few thousand.
there is nothin' to talk about.
it is your money.  it will be here in six months when you get out.
and you are tellin' me you do not want any of this cash?
that is right. not my style, reggie..
you are an awesomely weird cop. sure wish there were more like you runnin' around out here.
no, you don't. if i ever get word of you steppin' over the line again, I am going to ventilate that suit of yours.
spare met jack. I am into legit investments from here on in.
thanks.
no trouble, jack. but, listen, suppose i stay a crook?  where did you get the idea that you could catch me?
