welcome home.
do you know how much i missed you?
what is this... have you been smoking... ?
smoking?  I am not smoking.
your clothing reeks of it.
you know, amy, I have been sitting around in bars and everywhere following this guy... i mean, is this what i get first thing?  before you even "hello," you accuse me... ?
I am not accusing you...
well, I am not smoking, okay?
okay, i believe you.
we have been all through that.  I have been on my best behavior.
how is the detective business?
business was fine.  I will tell you what, you could not pay me enough to live down there.
you better not be smoking, that is all i can say.
honey, I am not, please...
i love you.
i love you.
your son-in-law dealt with the dry cleaning franchise during the day, saw that woman every night.  the specifics are in the report, and information about the woman.  it is unpleasant, i know.  i apologize...
none too discreet, is he?
no, sir, he is not.
he is an imbecile.  i tried to warn my daughter, but what can you do?
the um... you will find my invoice in the envelope. if that is all...
yes, mister welles, thank you.
certainly, senator.  if i can ever be of further assistance.
you think you will have time for the water heater this weekend?
sure.  I will call the guy.
you are not using the same guy who tried to fix it?
I am not using him again for anything.  he was worthless.  you have bridge here saturday?
betty's out of town so we are playing next week.
mister welles. you are very prompt.
i try to be.
uh huh, pleasure.
apparently mr. longdale has something he feels he simply must say before you and i speak.
yes, i do have something to say.  i insisted on being here as soon as i heard mrs. christian contacted you.
I am listening.
as mr. christian's attorney and one of the executors of his estate, it concerns me that a meeting of this sort should take place without my being asked to attend.
of what sort?
you are a private investigator?
that is right.
well, whatever reasons mrs. christian has for engaging the services of a private investigator, i should certainly be a party to. but, since she feels differently, i can only go on the record as having expressed my adamant disapproval.
have a pleasant evening.  will you have tea, mister welles?
thank you.
he is odd.
he is a lawyer.  please, sit, here...
I have spoken to friends of mine and my husband's, in harrisburg, in lancaster and hershey.  asking about you.  i must say you have friends in influential places.
I have been privileged to provide services for people i admire.
you are highly recommended.  praised for your discretion... your strict adherence to confidentiality.
as you know, my husband passed away recently.  two weeks ago now.
my condolences.
his passing has left me with... something of a dilemma.  a terrible, terrible dilemma.
I will do whatever i can to help.
pittsburgh?
mostly.  that is where he started his empire building.  he was a good man.  notorious as an eccentric, but that was something he cultivated.  he wanted to be legendary.
he succeeded.
we were married forty-five years. hard even for me to imagine.  we had our troubles.  there were plenty of places for him to be other than here, but he was always loyal to me, and i to him.  i loved him deeply.
do you carry a gun, mr. welles?
i wear a gun when i can tell a client expects me to.  other than that, there is never any reason.
just curious.
my husband was the only one with the combination to this safe.  i knew about it, but as far as i was concerned it was none of my business.  not till now, that is.
you hired someone to open it.  I will bet the lawyer loved that.
there was nothing he could do.  my husband left everything to me.  i prevented anyone from seeing the contents.  i felt these were my husband's private things.  i didn't... i did not realize...
do you want to tell me what you found?
cash, stock certificates, and this...
it is a film... of a girl being murdered.
I am afraid i don't...
this is a movie showing a girl being murdered.  she is sitting on a bed, and a man rapes her... and he begins to cut her with a knife...  i only watched what i could.
i did not know what to think.  i can not tell you how horrible it is been, to know this belonged to my husband.  to know that he watched this... this atrocity.  but, i can not go to the police...
mrs. christian... please, will you sit down a moment?  i want you to listen carefully. what you are talking about is a "snuff film."  but, from what i know, snuff films are a kind of... urban myth.  like, red light district folklore.  there is no such thing, i can assure you.
please, believe me.  this is probably a stag film.  simulated rape.  hard to stomach, and it might seem real, but there are ways of making it look realistic... fake blood and special effects...
no.
if you were to study it you would see the camera cutting away... you would see the tricks they can play...
I am telling you it is not that.
I am sure it is.  it is probably something your husband was given as a bad joke.  more than likely he never even watched it.
will you watch it and see for yourself?
of course.  but, I am certain it is nothing to worry about.
you... you need to go to the police.
i told you i can't, not yet.
you do not have any other choice.
no.  for me to live with the ruin of my husband's name, i need know that whoever did this will be punished. if you can find them, i will take their names to the police.  I will say my husband confessed on his death bed. I will say i did not have courage to come forward at first...
it will not work like that.
any evidence you collect can be given to the police later, anonymously.  I have thought about it and there is no other way.  if you can not find them... if the only thing that comes from this film is that this is all my husband will be remembered for, well i can not let that happen.  I am telling you i won't.  if there is no chance that poor girl's memory can be served, then I will just have to spend my last days trying to forget her.
i deal in divorce cases.  corporate investigations...
you have found missing persons before.
nothing remotely like this.
i know what I am asking.  your compensation will be appropriate to the risk.  you will need cash to buy information, and I will provide it.  i feel responsible, mr. welles.  you saw what he did to her.
this is the mortgage.  this is cindy's college money.
i understand.
sometimes you can not know what I am doing.  it is better that way.
i know.
it is a missing persons case... a long shot.  I will give it two months, two months at most, then I will be back.  we will take a vacation.
why the gun?
I am not going to need it.  i will not even wear it.  it is a precaution.  do not worry about me.
what can i do for you, mr. welles?
call me tom.
alright, tom.
what I would like, very simply, is access to your archive.  and, now i understand this is not something you normally do for private citizens...
there are reasons for the way we do things here.
absolutely.  of course I will abide by whatever decision you make, but I would appreciate if you will hear me out...
few days ago, i was contacted by a couple living in philadelphia, a doctor and his wife.  what happened was they picked up a young girl hitchhiking off 81, which heads into philadelphia, started up a conversation with this girl, she looked homeless, seemed about eighteen maybe.  they convinced her to let them buy her a meal in the city.  nice kid, mature, did not have much to say, but they got a sense she is a runaway, so all through dinner the doctor's working on her, trying to convince her that at the very least she should pick up a telephone.  not surprisingly, she ate her food, excused herself...  that is the last they saw her.  the reason they came to me for help, the reason I am coming to you, is we had a friend of mine in the department work up a sketch...  they want to see if i can i.d. this girl, somehow pass along a message to let the parents know the kid's alive, doing alright.
why not go to the n.c.i.c. or n.c.m.e.c.?
i figured you share information.
we do.
for whatever reasons i thought you might be more receptive.
why do not they come to me?
this doctor and wife, they are nice people, but they do not want to get too involved.  they are not trying to have the parents come looking for the girl either. you and i both know sometimes, not often, but sometimes there is real reasons why a kid'll run. molestation, whatever.  besides that, the girl's probably eighteen, so she is legal.
I am not so sure about this.
they are putting themselves in place of this kid's parents and thinking they would want to hear their girl's okay, even if that is all they hear.
i can give you my card, if your clients want to call me...
they were pretty clear they did not want this coming back on them.
well, that is all i can do.  sorry.
files are mostly by state and year of disappearance.  we try to keep the children and adults separate. no eating or smoking in here, but there is a coffee machine in the hall.
any good?
it is horrible, but it will be your best friend after a few days.  i hope you realize what kind of long shot you are chasing after.
you are going to be seeing a lot of me. you are sure you do not mind?
it is good what you are doing.
yes... ?
hello, mrs. mathews, my name's thomas jones, I am a state licensed investigator...
I have been hired as an independent contractor by the u.s. resource center for missing persons as part of an internal audit.  if you have any time over the next few days, I would like to make an appointment to ask some questions about the disappearance of your daughter.
i do not understand, who are... ?
I am sorry, let me explain, the r.c.m.p. is a support organization and archive, not unlike the center for missing and exploited children in washington.  I am sure you have dealt with them before?
yes, but...
these volunteer organizations are sort of interconnected, functioning hand in hand with law enforcement. the r.c.m.p. brought me in to review their investigations...  ... fact-check their records, see if there is anything they missed, anything they should be doing different.  I am here for a few days, before i head back up to virginia. these reports go to the justice department eventually.  i spoke to your f.b.i. contact a few days ago, uh...
what was the name... ? I have got it here somewhere...
neil... neil cole.
right, agent cole told me he would call and let you know to expect me.  he did not call?
no.
well, I am following up on your daughter, mary, height; five four, weight; hundred ten pounds, brown eyes, blonde hair.  born april 24, 1976.  missing june 11th, 1992.  a runaway, that is how she is listed. is this information correct... ?
it is very important you do not let this raise your expectations.  it is not going to effect any ongoing efforts.  all I am saying is, please know, I am not here to create any false hope.
they hired you.  you are like, a private detective?
that is exactly what i am.
i did not think there were private detectives anymore, except on tv.
you probably expect me to be wearing a trench coat and a hat.  drinking whiskey, chasing women and getting beaten up by guys with broken noses. want to know what it is really like? it is sitting in a car and staring at a hotel window for three days straight, pissing in a plastic bottle, pardon me, because some guy thinks his wife's cheating on him. glamorous, huh?  and the guy who hired you, he has a hair-lip, dandruff and crooked teeth, and you could have told him the minute you laid eyes on him his wife's cheating, and you do not blame her.
so, she did not leave a note?  she never gave any indication where she might go, before she left?
no.
she just seemed... depressed... ?
she did not seem herself.  for months there never was any way to get her to talk about it.  one night we went to bed... the next morning she was gone.  she took some clothes.
what was she running from?
i do not know.
if there is anything you feel uncomfortable talking about, tell me, but i have to ask.  your husband... he committed suicide?
yes.
september 4th, 1993.  about a year after mary disappeared.
we were divorced by then.  things fell apart... he was living with a friend...
why do you think he did it?
it got to be too much for him.
you have to forgive me, but in these circumstances... with your daughter...  were there any indications of... any sort of abuse?
there was not anything like that. the police and the fbi people asked, but there was not anything happened like that, never.  my husband... his heart broke when mary left...
i did not mean to...
you try going through what we did. bob could not take it, that is all. christ, there is times when it still seems like i can not either.
i had to ask.  i apologize.
no one knows what it is like.  you can not even imagine how much it hurts.
people remember me from the news.  can you drive me back now?
of course.
i... i should not take anymore of your time.  maybe we can finish tomorrow.  I will call tomorrow...
okay.
does not make much sense, does it? when everything's happy, when life's fine and you have every reason to believe there is a god, you do not bother.  then, something horrible happens... that is when you start praying all the time.  that is when you start going to church.
we are all like that.
are you religious?
no.
you should be.
I have got what i need for my report. there is... there is one thing that bothers me though.
what?
it is not really my place, but it is not easy for me to set aside the private detective part of me either. see, i know a little about missing persons.  when kids run, they almost always leave a note.  it is guilt. they want to say goodbye.
there was not one.  the police looked.
do you think the police did a good job?
i do not know.  i think so.
it is possible... and i know this is not something you want to hear. your daughter may have tried to hide a note where she thought you would eventually find it, but where she knew your husband would never find it.  she might have wanted to tell you something...
no.  you do not have any reason to think that...
if the police focused their search in her room, her belongings, well that would be only natural, but they may have been looking in the wrong place.
how... how can you say that to me...?
will you let me look?
my husband never laid a hand on her. she would have told me... she would have told me...
you are probably right, and i probably will not find anything. i do not have a right to ask this, and you can kick me out of your house if you want, but this is my profession and there is a part of me that can not let it go.  police are just as human as you or i.  they could have missed something.  they probably didn't.  would not you rather know?
you were right.  i did not find anything.  I am going to run and get something to eat. are you hungry?
yes.
i think about it everyday.  but, every time the phone rings... every single time, i still think it is her.
it is been six years.
what am i supposed to do?  forget her?  time heals all wounds, right?  she is all i think about, and I have learned to live with that.  but, you want the truth... the real truth? if i had a choice... if i had to choose, between her being out there, living a good life and being happy, and me not knowing; never finding out what happened to her...  ... or her being dead and me knowing...  I would choose to know.
big date tonight?
yeah... guess so.
can i interest you in a battery operated-vagina?
pardon me?
my boss tells me i have to do more suggestive selling.
well, it is tempting, but no thanks.
it is your call, but you are going to be sorry when you are in one of those everyday situations that call for a battery-operated vagina and you do not have one.
I will risk it.
once you pick it up you can not put it down.
catchy title.  what are you really reading?  hard to believe that book's got any parts worth highlighting.
truman capote.
i tear off the cover and paste this one on...  you know how it is.
would not want to embarrass yourself in front of your fellow perverts.
might get drummed out of the pornographer's union, and then where would i be?
remember me?
came back for that battery-operated vagina, right?  told you you would.
i need some information.  thought you might be able to help.
thomas welles.  nice picture.
i do not know what you are looking for, mister, but so we are clear from the start, I am straight.
good for you.
how long you been working there?
three, four years.
what is your name, if you do not mind me asking?
max.
well, here's the deal, max.  this thing I am on right now has something to do with underground pornography. stuff that is sold under the counter, illegally...
there is not much illegal.
well, whatever there is, whoever's dealing, however it is done, i want to know.  i want a good look, so if you have got that kind of connection, great.  if not, speak now.
you are not a cop, are you?  if i ask and you are, you have to tell me.
I am not a cop.
you are a private eye.  like shaft.
not quite.
from pennsylvania.  p.i. from pa. what are you doing out here?
well, there is the thing; you are not going to know anything about what I am doing, but you can make some money.
how much?
how much do you make now?
four hundred a week, off the books.
okay, let's pretend i live in the same fantasy world where you make four hundred a week in that dump. I will give you six hundred for a few days.
sounds good, pops.
here's my number if you need it...  when can you start?
tomorrow night, i get off at eight.
see you then.  oh, and, do not call me "pops."
... hello... ?
wake up, pops.  your education begins tonight.
what are these?
mixed hard bondage.  rape films. sick shit.  buy five, get one free.
anything harder?
there is nothing harder.
snuff?
what you see is what i got, mister.
you know where i can get it?  i have a lot of money to spend.
there am not no such thing as snuff. why do not you fuck off?
you have got penthouse, playboy, hustler, etc.  nobody even considers them pornography anymore.  then, there is mainstream hardcore.  triple x.  the difference is penetration. that is hardcore.  that whole industry's up in the valley. writers, directors, porn stars. they are celebrities, or they think they are.  they pump out 150 videos a week.  a week.  they have even got a porno academy awards.  america loves pornography.  anybody tells you they never use pornography, they are lying.  somebody is buying those videos.  somebody is out there spending 900 million dollars a year on phone sex.  know what else?  it is only going to get worse.  more and more you will see perverse hardcore coming into the mainstream, because that is evolution.  desensitization.  oh my god, elvis presley's wiggling his hips, how offensive!  nowadays, mtv's showing girls dancing around in thong bikinis with their asses hanging out.  know what i mean?  for the porn-addict, big tits are not big enough after a while.  they have to be the biggest tits ever.  some porn chicks are putting in breast implants bigger than your head, literally.  soon, playboy is going to be penthouse, penthouse'll be hustler, hustler'll be hardcore, and hardcore films'll be medical films. people'll be jerking off to women laying around with open wounds. there is nowhere else for it to go.
interesting theory.
what you saw tonight, we are not talking about a video some dentist takes home over the weekend.  we are talking about stuff where people get hurt.  specialty product.
child pornography.
there is two kinds of specialty product; legal and illegal.  foot fetish, shit films, watersports, bondage, spanking, fisting, she- males, hemaphrodites... it is beyond hardcore, but legal.  this is the kind of hardcore where one guy's going to look at it and throw up, another guy looks at it and falls in love.  now, with some of the s+m and bondage films, they straddle the line.  how are you supposed to tell if the person tied up with the ball gag in their mouth is a consenting or not?  step over that line, you are into kiddie porn.  rape films, but there are not many.  I have never seen one.
snuff films.
i heard you asking.  that guy was not yanking you around.  there is no such thing.
what other ways are there to get illegal films?  who do you see?
first of all, basement sales like tonight are not going to last much longer.  it is too risky, one, and two, everything's going on the internet.  anyone with a computer and enough patience can find anything he wants.  it is heaven for those degenerate chicken-hawks. they are swapping pictures back and forth as fast as their modems can zap 'em.  but, there is still some weird shit under the counter where i work sometimes.  no one knows where it comes from.  that is local underground, where information spreads by word of mouth.  those are zombies, hardcore junkies.  their hands are permanently pruned.  they go out in the sun they do not burn, they blister.  other than that, all i know about is the mail. classified ads in the paper with hidden codes.  secret couriers. credit card orders to dummy corporations.  interstate wire transfers.  revolving p.o. boxes. but, if you are asking me who do you go to to get illegal shit... who knows?  that is the whole point -- the seller stays as far away from the buyer as possible, and vice versa, and cops can not trace the deal.  there is ways to do it so nobody knows who anybody is.
how old are you?
twenty-five.
where are your parents?
i do not know, where are yours?
i do not mean any offense... but what are you doing mixed up in all this?
I am not mixed up in anything, hayseed.  what are you talking about?
you just strike me as smart enough to be doing something else.
yeah, I am a real genius.  what choices have i got?  fuck, just because i know about stuff like tonight does not mean i deal it.  i work a job.  it beats pumping gas, beats making hamburgers.
you are telling me it does not get to you?
you can not sit there all day watching the parade of losers that comes into that place without going numb.  so what? am i going to go off and be a race car driver?  go to harvard?  run for president?  what about you, pops?
what about me?
i see a ring on your finger.  you have any kids?
a daughter.
so, you have a wife and kid waiting for you in pennsylvania... what are you doing mixed up in all this?
good question.
okay...
my husband never dealt with money personally, certainly not cash.
I am not positive this means anything.
the checks were for odd amounts...
one was for two hundred thousand, one dollar and thirteen cents. another was for three hundred thousand, six hundred fifty four dollars and seventy six cents...
okay, i follow you so far...
totalled together, these five checks from five different accounts, they equal one million dollars.
you are joking.
to the penny.  exactly one million dollars in cash.
hello... ?
I am here.
do you think the film could have cost that much?
for a human life... murder on film, no statute of limitations.  who knows?  it sure could have.  I would like you to overnight me a copy of those checks, then put them in a safe deposit box.
okay.
send it to me through the post office like we arranged.  no return address.  you dug this up all by yourself?
you told me to look, so i looked.
you are one hell of a detective, mrs. christian.
yes... i remember mary
you... you do?  you are sure? please, sister, will you take another look, make sure...
yes.  i remember her.
do you know what happened to her?
I am trying to find out.  she was a runaway.  I am looking into it for her parents.
what is this?
those are her belongings.
her belongings?
that is her suitcase.  i had forgotten it, till you showed me her picture.
whatever possessed you to keep this all this time?
she was the kindest, sweetest girl you would ever want to meet.  oh, i adored her.  i supposed i always hoped she would be back.  after a time, all i could do was pray she had moved on to better things.  can you get this suitcase to her parents, if you think it is appropriate?
I will do what i can.
okay, I will take it all.
excellent.  we accept mastercard and american express.
cash.
alright.  may i have your phone number, area code first?
no, you may not.
okay.  fine.
I am required by state law to inform you that, while it is perfectly legal for you to purchase these items, it is illegal for you to use them for any sort of...
yeah, i know the spiel.  if you could bag it, I will be on my way, thank you.
certainly, sir.
you know how my tapes sell.  people eat this stuff up.
i had three jerkoffs trying to return your tapes last month.  do you know how bad a skin flick has to be for some jackass to come back into my place with a fucking receipt, and try to fucking return it?
maybe there is something wrong with the scumbag customers coming into your place, ever think of that?
the only thing wrong is the cheap, softcore crap you are peddling, eddie.  where do you get this stuff?
look, you cocksucker...
get together some upscale product where the girls still have teeth in their head.  till then, fuck you.
fuck you!
celebrity films.
eddie.
yeah, who is this?
i know what you did.
what?
i know what you did.
who is this.
you murdered that girl, eddie.  six years ago...
what the fuck are you.. ?
you killed that girl and you put it on film.  you and your pals, you are fucked.  you fucked up real good.
what do you want?
i just got a call... two seconds ago, some motherfucker called... says he knows about the loop.
what are you talking about?
the loop!  the girl we did, what the fuck do you think I am talking about?!  this guy calls and says he knows about the fucking loop...
bullshit.
I am telling you...
blow me, you paranoid fuck, that is impossible.  why are you bothering me with this... ?
because somebody just fucking called me and fucking laid it out!
there is nothing there, you brain- dead cunt.  think about it.  there is absolutely no way in this world to connect us to anything.  i want you to hang the phone up, and if you call me about this again I am going to send a friend of mine out there and have him crack you open with a fucking rib spreader.
dino...
nobody knows anything.
dino velvet... yeah, he is like the john luc godard of s+m flicks, supposed to be a real weirdo.
a weirdo making s+m films?  who would have thought it?
his stuff comes out of new york. bondage and fetish videos, gothic hardcore.  definitely not for the squeamish.
specialty product.
you are learning.
where does he sell it?
out of the back of bondage magazines mostly, but you can find it on the street if you look.  he will also do commissions, for enough money...
nothing illegal, it is always borderline.  like if some freak wants to see a transvestite in a full rubber immersion suit getting an enema from a...
alright, i get the picture.
he cuts all kinds of other stuff into his movies; photographs, newsreel footage, subliminal images. thinks he is making art.
well, I am in new york now.  what do you say to flying out and giving me a hand?
I am a working stiff, pops.
take a vacation.  I will pay you four hundred a day, plus expenses.
you want me to come out there and play private eye?
consider it.  meanwhile, dig up whatever dino velvet films you can. get receipts.  I will call back.
see ya.
hello?
mrs. christian, tom welles here.
how are you?  having any luck?
i do not know if luck's the word. are you feeling alright?
I have been ordered into bed.  the doctor says I have gotten the flu, or some other wretched ailment.
i hope it is nothing serious.
nothing more than a bother.  have you any news for me?
I have made progress.  I am in manhattan.  once a few more pieces fall into place, I will drive to you and give you an update.
fine...
I have got about five thousand left in cash, but I will need another thirty, if you approve.
how will i get it to you?
if you have a pencil and paper, I will tell you how to send it.
you did not say it was going to be this luxurious.
it is their presidential suite.
great.
oh, come on, man, what are we doing in this flea bag?
it is cheap, and people know to mind their own business. what have you got for me?
wha... ?
who is this, in the mask?  who is he?
who is he?
i told you, he is one of dino velvet's stock players...
who is he, his name?
nobody knows his name.  that is his thing.  he always wears a mask.  you never see his face.  he calls himself "machine," that is what they call him.  machine.
you do not need to be here.
what kind of junior p.i. would i be if i did not go with you?
it is an honor to meet you.  thank you for seeing us.
what can i do for you today?
I would like to commission a work.  I am a great admirer of yours.
flattering.  and, who is your colorful little chum?
a fellow investor.
hmm.
i know if i had to pick, it would be "choke," or "devil."
"devil" frightened me as much as it excited me, but I would be hard pressed to choose a favorite.
you said something about money.
yes.  what we are looking for is rather specific.
that is five thousand dollars.
is it?
five thousand now, five thousand on delivery. two women, one white and one black, as long as they have large breasts. hard bondage, or course.  other than that, trusting your artistic interpretation, i have only two stipulations.
and they are?
i want to watch you work.
I will consider it.
and the other performer... it has to be that monster you use... the man in the mask.
machine.
if it is not him, there is no deal.
he might be interested... but it would mean another five thousand.
we can do that.
well, well, I will have to put my thinking-cap on about all this. you will leave the money as a deposit?  very good.
you have a beautiful face... the way the light hits it.  I would like to take your picture.  you do not mind?
I would rather you didn't.
what is the problem?
I am camera shy.
you trust me to keep your money, but not to take your picture?
those are two different kinds of trust.  thank you for your time.  i hope we can do business.
I will do this for you.  fifteen thousand dollars.
machine's in?
he is in.  it will be his pleasure.
where is that?
brooklyn.  do not be late.
what is next?
I am trying to figure that out myself.  i have to see machine without his mask.
still do not want to tell me what you are doing?
nope.
what is this?
it is money.  people use it to purchase goods and services.
look... that is awful generous and everything...
it is not my money.  the woman i got it from is never going to give it a second thought.  let's not make a big deal out of this, okay?  go be a race car driver.  go run for president.  whatever.
you brought the money?
right here.
excellent.
where are the women?
they should be here any minute.
what are these for?
hmm?  oh, the knifes?  they are just props.  nice, are not they?
sure.
mister welles... would you be so kind as to remove any firearms from your person?
what are you... ?
take out your gun!
empty the gun onto the table, very carefully.
look, i do not know what this...
shut up, cunt!  do exactly as i say, or I will put this arrow through your throat.
is that him?
put the gun down, take the handcuffs.  handcuff yourself to the bed.
you remember mr. longdale, do not you?
i remember him.
friend of yours?
look, he is got nothing to do with this... let him go...
can you guess what I am going to say next?
he does not know anything... he is got nothing to do with this...
bring the film, or we kill him.
I will get it.  it is in a safe deposit box, in the city...
how cooperative.  longdale will keep you company.
do not let longdale's questionable choice of weapon give you any ideas. if his fey little gun puts enough little holes in you, you will be just as dead... and so will max.
move it, dirtbag... !
you were the middleman, am i right? old man christian was not about to go shopping for a snuff film himself.
would not exactly have been possible for a man of his stature.
so, he sent you, gave you the money, his errand-boy.  and if you refused, it was not like you could tell anyone your pervert boss just asked you to get him a snuff film.  that is the beauty of lawyer/client privilege.
that is trust.  mr. christian trusted me implicitly.
must have paid you a lot, for you to risk everything.  would have had to have cut yourself a real nice piece of money.
i was well compensated.
that is why you got scared when mrs. christian hired me.  you knew about the film, figured it had to be in that safe.  how did you find me?
never mind how i found you.
followed me... must have freaked out when you saw me closing in on your buddies...
they are no friends of mine.
except, you are willing commit murder with them.
none of this would be happening if you would have left it alone.  if you were not digging up a girl who died six years ago.  a girl no one even remembers.
mary anne mathews, that was her name.  her mom remembers her.
you found these smut dealers and asked to buy a snuff film, right? wanted them to find you one.  well, they did not find you one, longdale, they went out and made you one...
shut up.
mary anne mathews was alive till you paid money to have her murdered.
shut your mouth and drive!
did it get him off, huh, watching them cut her up?  tell me, because i really want to understand.  did he jerk off to it?  you watch it with him, sit there giving him a handjob while you both watched... ?
you are making me very angry.
just tell me.  tell me some more of the secrets you and christian shared. what kind of degenerate pervert was he really?  what the fuck did he want with a snuff film?
you are asking me why?
I am asking.
a man like mr. christian, a great man... all his money, all his power... a man who attained everything there was to attain...
why did he buy a film of some poor, lost girl getting butchered?
is not it incredibly obvious?
enlighten me.
because he could.  he did it because he could.  what other reason were you looking for?
you almost went over your limit.
fuck you.
give me the film.
you will get it when we get there.
give me the film.
go ahead, shoot me.  then try driving to brooklyn with my brains all over the windshield.
you are a dead man.
leave him alone.
fuck off.
what the fuck... !
i promised him to machine.
... sorry...
first things first.  you might want to watch this, mr. welles...
what is he talking about?
one million dollars, dino.  how much did he tell you he had...
he is lying.
look at him.  you think he played it square?  how much did he give you, how much did he keep for himself?
you got the guts, tough guy?  gonna kill us all, is that it?
you betrayed us.
hello?
amy, it is me.  listen very carefully..
tom?  where have you been... ?
amy, just listen.  take cindy and get out of the house.  do it now. go to a hotel and stay there...
what is wrong?  are you alright?
I am okay.  please, honey, i can not explain.  do not use the phone, just pack a bag and get out.  I am on my way.  I will be back at the house in three hours.  call me from the hotel when you get there
... what is going on?
just do it, amy, please, go.
what happened to you?
I am okay, honey, I am okay.  are you alright?
what is going on, tom?  what happened?
i can not tell you, amy.  you know i can't.  you have to trust me...
tom...
it has to be this way for now.  it will not be long.
why have not you called?  why do not you answer your phone?
i do not know.  I am sorry...
you are sorry?  what was i supposed to think?
you owe me an explanation.  you can not treat me like this.
i wanted to call.  i couldn't.
you couldn't?
you do not understand...
no, i don't, because you are not telling me anything!
i was in hell.  if i called you... if i heard your voice... it would have been so easy for me to quit. i could not do that.
you should have.
amy, I am not going to let anything happen to us.
look where we are.  look at yourself.  you son of a bitch, you do not have any idea what you are putting me through...
i do not know what to say
you are killing me...
don't...
what was i supposed to think happened to you?!
amy...
who are you calling?
mrs. christian.
what?
she is all I have got.  she is the only witness.
tom... she is dead.
she died in her sleep three days ago.  it was in the paper...
i just talked to her.
I am going to kill you.
do not bore me with that bullshit.
how did you find me here?
do not ask questions.
fuck you!
starting to recognize a pattern?
what do you want?
who is machine?
i do not know...
i want his name.
i told you, i do not know.
i will never get tired of hurting you, eddie, so you might want to change your attitude.
what the fuck am i going to protect that freak for?  he was dino's boy, not mine.  he shows up with his mask on, leaves with his mask on.  nobody knows.
okay, we will come back to that.  so, six years ago a guy contacts you, through the classifieds, over the phone, however he does it.  it is longdale, looking for a snuff film. and you, entrepreneur that you are, tell him you can hook him up.
yeah, the fucking lawyer.
told him you could get him a snuff film.
yeah.
how much did he pay you?
thirty thousand each, that fucking cocksucker.
that is all?  thirty each.  that is all it took for you to murder her?
it was a lot of fucking money.
so... you brought dino in, and he brought machine.  and, one day, a girl walked into your office because you had an ad in the paper for models.  and she never walked out.
something like that.
what did you do, knock her out, shoot her up... ?
what the fuck do you want from me?
i want to know.  i want to know exactly what you did to her!
fuck you then, you want to know?  i talked her up, told her how beautiful she was, told her she was going to be a star.  i told her i was going to get her a screen test, and while I am doing that, i got her a soda and dropped a mickey.  when it was dark enough, i rang dino and told him it was go time, i put her in the trunk of my car and we went and we fucking did it.  that is what happened.  she is dead.  she is been dead a long fucking time.  nobody fucking cares!
show me where you did it, on the map, exactly where you did it.
why?
because we are going there.
i do not know.  i felt like it.  i never saw anyone get done before.
you enjoy it?
made me sick, but what did i care? what did i care if some hump wants to beat off to that.  it was just something i was doing for money.
tell me what happened.
what do you want to know?  you saw it, you saw the loop...
nobody saw you bring her in?
there was not nobody around.  this place was a shit-hole.  i backed up the car to the door and we carried her in, like groceries.  dino made her eat a bunch of pills, we laid out the plastic, put film in the camera and machine went to work.
what did you do with her body?
took it out the bathroom window. buried it in the woods.
show me.
keep moving.
where do you think you are taking this, huh?  going to be a big hero, avenge that little girl's death? going to make everything right with the world?  how you going to do that... ?
you can not go to the cops.  all you can do is cut me loose and walk away, because you got nothing...
stop talking.
you got absolute zero.
show me where you buried her.
i do not know...  ... out there somewhere.
where?  show me where.
i fucking do not know.  what do you think... we were not burying treasure.  we did not pace it out so we could come back and get it.  we dug a hole and we put her in it. your guess is as good as mine.
do it.
do not think i won't.
do it!  put me out of my misery so i do not have to listen to you whining anymore.  you think it is so easy?
easy enough for you.
i never killed anyone.
that is right, you just stood there and watched, because you "felt like it."  almost makes you worse.
what do you want?  you want me to fall to my knees and start crying like a baby... ?
hello... ?
mrs. mathews?  it is thomas.  do you remember, i was there a few weeks ago... asking about your daughter...
i remember.  you just left...
i have to tell you something.  it will not be easy for you to hear.  it is about your daughter... mary anne...  when i... when i was there with you, her diary, in your attic, in silverware.  if you read it, you will know what I am telling you is true...
what are you talking about... ?
she went to california, to los angeles... she wanted to start over. she wanted to be an actress...
what... ?
mrs. mathews, your daughter is dead. she is dead.
who is this... ?
someone... some men, they took your daughter and they drugged her, and they took her to a motel room... they did terrible things to her...
who are you?
they brought her into the room... one man, he put a knife to her throat and he raped her...
no...
he raped her and...and...and he murdered her...he cut her up with knifes...
no... no... no...
they killed her, and they took her out in the forest somewhere and they buried her...
why... why are you doing this to me... ?
they murdered her, mrs. mathews, I am sorry.  it happened a month after she ran away.  she is been dead all this time...
