commissioner, we both know the mercury shuttle needs another month of pre-launch testing.
forget it.  the boys on the board want that shuttle to go on schedule.
and what do the boys on the board know about safety, commissioner?  let me talk to them.
bud, get wise to the political realities. the boys on the board are under a lot of pressure from the boys downtown.
you handle your front office people, I will handle the press and leave the boys in washington to the boys downtown and the boys downtown to the boys on the board.
commissioner.
what?
i just wish it was that simple.
for the best little computer officer on the mercury mission.
simon.
who would believe that elaine thompson was once a stewardess on the denver-chicago run.
and i can hardly believe that I am engaged to someone like you, simon.  I am a very lucky woman.
women and the space program have come a long way, sweetheart.  but after the wedding, no more complicated computers for my little girl.
but, darling, they have offered me a chance to head up the computer analysis division for the jupiter probe.
you are heading up the division in charge of babies for mr. and mrs. simon kurtz.
will scraps be able to sit with us, dad?
we will have to check, jimmy.  it is a pretty long trip to mercury.
you folks need any help?
thanks, but we have a terrific woman in on thursdays.
say, is not that dr. barrington, the world- renowned agronomist?
yes.
it is a privilege to meet you, sir, I am familiar with all your work.
let's go, daddy.  we have to check in.  he was never appreciated at the institute.
ah, yes, the institute, I am familiar with it.
now he is d-y-i-n-ging and wants to be buried on mercury.
frank's the best pilot in the program.
I am so excited, simon.
i guess this is a first for you.
no, I have been excited before.
elaine.
te...!
that is not important now, elaine.  we have to talk.
are you on the mercury mission?
that is right, striker.  and we are getting married when we return.
it is got to be stopped!
but, ted, the invitations have already gone out.
i mean the mercury flight.  it is not safe and, kurtz, you know why.
you are seeing bugs where they do not exist, striker.
look at this wiring.  it is shorting out under high temperatures.
you are tired, striker, overworked.  that wiring meets all the safety specifications.
i know you have been subtly spreading the word that I am having a breakdown.
ted, what is wrong?
ask simon.
ted, you are overworked.  you have been flying yourself into the ground.
there is nothing wrong with me!
let's relax tonight, just the two of us. I will make a quiet italian dinner just the way you like it, with spaghetti.
you are as bad as the rest of them, elaine!  it is all here in the design specifications!  look!  it is all here!
elaine!  ted's a danger to himself, he is a threat to this mission and his behavior does absolutely nothing to promote peace in the middle east.
simon, why has he become so... so...
so mentally ill?
excuse me, are you alright?  i noticed you talking to yourself.  I am a nurse.  can i be of some help?
uh... oh, thank you.  it is nothing.
you do not have to thank me, I am a nurse. this is my father, dr. barrington.
not dr. barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
yes.  he is dying a-n-d wants to be buried on mercury.
I am familiar with your work, doctor. you will have to excuse me, i have to go.
you do not have to excuse yourself.  I am a nurse.  i understand.
meet me onboard, sweetheart.  i have to pick up a few things at the drugstore.
do not be too long.
elaine.
ted, please.  you are just making things difficult for yourself.
elaine, what happened to us?
ted, i loved you and I will always love you. but i need simon.  he is stable.  he is a good provider.  i want that at this stage of the game, ted.  he might have his faults, but simon does not know the meaning of the word fear and i need that in a man.
eat this spaghetti, ted.  it will make you feel a lot better.
who is that, ted?
sammy davis junior.  terrible car accident.  he has not been the same since.
elaine, when are you going to realize simon kurtz put me in here to get me out of the way.
and when are you going to realize, ted, that your mental hygiene is the most important thing right now.
his name's david stockman.  he is been here twenty years, that is all he says.
ted, you must remember what the doctor said, the first step on the road to sanity is admitting that you are sick.  now take your electro-shock and you will be back at the space center in no time.  and by the way, ted, I am leaving you for simon.
no goodbyes, elaine.  just go.
if that is the way you want it.
that is the way i want it.  just turn the radio on and go.
goodbye, ted.  i do not want to hurt you.
that is right, commissioner.  senselessly murdered just minutes ago.
that just does not make any sense.
i wonder how your boys in washington are going to take this one.
i told you, leave the boys in washington to the boys downtown and the boys down...
you have made your point, commissioner. there is only one other pilot who can handle that shuttle and that is clarence oveur.  he is got a lunar flight today.  i want him pulled.  jacobs, pull oveur!
captain oveur?
mr. kurtz, i presume.
we do not have much time.  let's move. I will explain everything.
that is how dry cleaning works.  now I would like to quickly go over the digestive system of amphibians.
do you think it is necessary to explain everything?
i have to see bud kruger.
do you have an appointment, sir?
no, dammit.  it is a matter of life or death.
you will have to be more specific than that, sir.
all right, it is a matter of death.
death, death.  how about the first thursday in march, ten o'clock.
you can not go in there!
do not try to stop me!
but that is not a door.  the door's over there.
take this, joey.  it is my last few bucks. you will need a hot meal when you get there.
we have spent everything on these operations.  is it really worth it?  we have pawned your mother's wedding ring.  the kids have no winter clothes...
joey, what is more important, the kids' clothes or your sexual potency.
i do not want to hear that word!
okay, joey.  the doc says you gotta relax. this hospital in des moines is the best sex clinic in the country.
all right.  here.
what...?
good to be aboard, gentlemen.
captain oveur, your navigator, mr. unger, and your first officer, mr. dunn.
oveur.
dunn.
ted!  what are you...?
i have to get in there.  i have to stop this flight.
ted, we are taking off!
let me by, elaine.
whenever your're ready, captain.
yes, sir, commander.  this is mercury one.  everything seems a- okay up here and ready for count-down.
ted seemed to get worse after i told him about simon, doctor.
the human brain is a highly complex organ, elaine, perhaps the most complex next to the bladder.  let me show you.  ted's problem is in this area.  this area, this area, here, here, here, under here, here...
so you see, our task is not made any easier by ted's refusal to admit that he is sick.
what can i do, doctor rumack?
you can eat balanced meals, exercise, and take geritol.
i mean for ted.
you can be gentle with him, elaine.  he is been working out a lot of his aggressions here in the garden.
is that a good sign, doctor?
what are you doing, ted?
I have got it, elaine!  I have figured out what is wrong with the shuttle!
ted.
not now, elaine!
ted!
the brain is an amazingly complex organ, elaine.
is he making any progress, doctor?
yes -- last week that pile of mud was only this high.
shut down accelerators.
accelerators down.
elaine, ask rok for a field interference scan.  those sun spots might give us a problem with our communications.
yes, sir.
intermitant failure in scan mode "r". analyze.
negative.
that does not make sense.  repeat analysis.
negative.
that is not possible.
cut the doubting thomas shit, elaine.  i know where I am coming from on this.
have you got it straightened out now?
i think so.
that is my girl.
elaine, I am sorry about that little outburst a moment ago.
that is okay, rok.
can i say something of a personal nature to you?
go ahead.
you have great tits.
simon, I am going to check rok's secondary readout unit.
roger.
a couple eggs and juice would be nice, mary.  over.
how would you like your eggs, captain? over.
no.  poached.  over.
poached and over, captain oveur?  over.
just poached on toast.  over.
that is how i want them.  poached.  over.
all right, captain oveur.  over.
poached!  not over!  over!
i sure an glad they let scraps ride up here with us.
i bet scraps is going to love mercury.
do you think things will be a lot different on mercury, dad?
it is going to be terrific.  a whole new world, new kids to play with.
how many kids get a chance to live on another planet.
no more kids yelling, 'your old man's a thieving rapist'?
look, a man can make an honest mistake!! anyway, she was asking for it!  they are all asking for it all the time!!
we seem to have a malfunction in disposal unit four, sir.
you better check it, unger.
elaine.
ted.  i do not know why you got on this flight.  i do not know what you are trying to prove.
elaine, we have to go back.
we can not go back.  we had something very special, but it is all over.
elaine, i mean the mission has to be aborted.  this ship should never have passed fsa inspection.  this thing is held together by string and chewing gum.
ted, get a grip on yourself.  you should never have left the hospital.
then you do think I am insane.
I have never used the word insane, ted.
what word would you use, elaine?
the word is sick.  ted -- very, very, very sick.
what would you say if i told you the toilet just blew up in my face.
I would use the word insane.
there is something dangerously wrong with this ship, elaine.  i know its the wiring. that toilet's just the tip of the iceberg.
ted, a toilet's not going to kill anyone.
you have been hurt.
I am getting over it.  if a relationship is not working, you can not force it.
no, i mean your head.  sit down.  I will take a look at it.  I am a nurse.
do you want to talk about it.
i opened this panel and a vacuum cleaner hit me.
no.  i mean your relationship.
we were in love but I am not sure i know what love is anymore.
love's the same as it always was.  it is people who change.
people change in relation to each other. love changes on its own.
not if the people change together in relation to that love.
sure.  but that is only when the love itself goes unchanged.
then the relationship remains the same and the love changes only when there is change in the two people who share that love.
i just wish it was that simple.  we really were in love.  you know how it is when you laugh all the time.
no.  it is hard to l-a-u-g-h when your father's dying.
well, we laughed.  we laughed all the time.
sir, I have got an overload in disposal unit four.
you better check on it, mr. dunn.  I will stay here and fly the ship.
dunn.
sir?
you better take this.
come on up, jimmy.  say, that is some puppy.  what is his name?
scraps.
can i hold him?
sure.
he is a boy dog.
yeah.
do you like it when scraps sleeps on his back, jimmy?
request; comprehensive electrical systems check.
systems check positive.  look, elaine, i...
request; life support systems check.
life support check.  elaine, it is obvious you have been ignoring me.  you are a woman. i can relate to that.
request; self-analysis of rok hardware and software systems regarding behavioral changes.
there is nothing wrong with me, elaine. what about tonight -- just you and me.  we can be alone.  i can get rid of everyone else on the ship -- I have already proven that.
did you feel that?
yes i did...
felt like a large asteroid.
yes it did.  mr. dunn, can i ask you a personal question?
what is it, mary?
um...  do you people scream right when you... you know.
i do not think we have any alternative, captain.
i see.  what do you think our alternatives are?
we have to disconnect rok's higher brain functions without disturbing his regulatory system.
roger.
you can do it from up here, captain.
I would rather sit down for this one, elaine.
no, i mean you can do it from the cockpit.
roger.  you better get back there and monitor the regulatory unit.
captain, the coffee machine is jammed and i do not like it.
have you tried it with a little cinnamon?
simon, what is happening?!
he tried to disconnect rok.  it gassed him.  that computer is running this ship and we are heading right for the sun.
can not we change course?
we are computer locked and the manual navigation unit is down.
my career is shot.
your career!  what about the lives of those people out there.  simon, what happened to the man i thought i loved?
striker.
kurtz, you are drunk.  who is in command of this ship?
that damn computer has taken over.  I am getting out.
then elaine was right.
do not talk to me about elaine.  outta my way!
pull yourself together!  we have got to...
elaine!
ted!
elaine, what is going on?
ted, there is no time to explain.
forget it.  i was reading.
i was reading too.
what is the story?
some southern plantation owner falls in love with this poor...
i was asking mccrosky, commissioner.
elaine, I am going back there.  just hold onto that stick and try to control this hunk of tin as best you can.
ted, please be careful.
kruger, sagittarius.
commissioner, aquarius.
ted, we have only got ten minutes.
not now, elaine.
i mean until we start to burn up.
kurtz was the one who got us into this mess in the first place.  you people knew this ship was not ready to fly.  you played god with over a hundred lives, kruger, and for what -- the prestige of your precious space program.
that was very well put, ted.
well, elaine, this might be it if those guys on the ground do not think of something.
i just want you to know, i love you ted and always will.
that might be the news we have been waiting for.
which passenger is joe salucci?
sixteen 'c', why?
he is carrying a bomb.
a b...
no, a bomb.  now, as discreetly as possible, i want you to move the passengers into the lounge.
what should i say?
anything.  just do not let salucci think we are onto him.
joe, you do not want to blow that thing and kill all these innocent people.
i do not want to live anymore.
joe, the insurance policy will not help your wife and kids.  you bought auto insurance, not life insurance.
what?
that is right, joe.  now, no one's going to hurt you and no one has to know what is wrong with you.
you are sure?
I am sure.
simon, i did not want it to end like this. we can be friends!  you will die out there.
maybe.
simon, what are you saying?!
simon just ejected!
sit down, elaine.  if this bomb trick works we just might make it.  simon was a fool to eject now.
you mean...
that is right -- premature ejection.
what will happen to him, ted?
the sun will heat that thing to over 450 degrees within seconds.  he will roast like a pig on a spit.
are you afraid?
not when I am with you, ted.
i guess you would have to be a fool not to be afraid at a time like this.
we have blown the computer!  elaine!  set course change!
set!
now!
compute!
ted, the lever!
kramer, the worp control handle just came off in my hand.
