jack, is not that fred bliffert over there in the blue turtleneck? maybe he is on our flight to chicago.
yeah, i think he is.  hey, fred!
elaine!
ted!
i came home early and found your note. i guess you meant for me to read it later. elaine, I have got to talk to you.
i just do not want to go over it any more.
i know things have not been right for a long time, but it will be different. if you will just be patient, i can work things out.
i have been patient and I have tried to help, but you would not even let me do that.
do not you feel anything for me at all any more?
it takes so many things to make love last. most of all it takes respect. and i can not live with a man i do not respect!
look, you will be back in town tomorrow night. we will have dinner -- talk it over.
i will not be back. I have requested the atlanta run.
elaine, not yet. i promise you i really can change.
then why do not you take the job that louie netz offered you at boeing?
you know i have not been able to get near an airplane since the war. and even if i could, they would not hire me because of my war record.
your war record? you are the only one keeping that alive. for everyone else it is ancient history.
you expect me to believe that?
it is the truth. what is hurt you the most is your record since the war. different cities, different jobs, and not one of them shows you can accept any real responsibility.
but if you will just give me...
it is too late, ted. when i get back to chicago, I am going to start my life all over again. I am sorry.
sorry, clarence. latest weather report shows everything socked in from salt lake to lincoln.
hi, roger. good to have you aboard. victor, this is roger murdock.
what did you think of 'great expectations?'
well, it was not all that i had hoped.
oh, bill, I am going to miss you so much.
you promise you will write.
every day.
fourteen-b. it is halfway down on your right.
thank you.
good-bye, darling.
oh, bill, I will keep it. I will keep it with me all the time.
so long, darling. good-bye. take care of yourself.
bill! bill! good-bye, bill.
good-bye, darling.
good-bye, darling. i love you. i love you, darling.
good-bye, darling.
roger.
huh?
roger.
huh?
we have clearance, clarence.
roger, roger. what is our vector, victor?
do you feel all right, sir?
oh -- i have not flown for a long time.
ted, what are you doing here?
elaine, I have got to talk to you.
you...you should not have come. i do not have time now.
i happened to be passing, and i thought you might like some corfee.
that is very nice of you. thank you.
ah, will not you sit down?
thank you. cream?
no, thank you. i take it black. like my men.
were you vacationing in los angeles?
well, it really was not a vacation. you see, I am a teacher in the new york city school system, and i was attending a seminar on visual aids to education. are you from l.a.?
no. I am from washington, d.c. I am a lobbyist for the small businessmen's assocation.
what is the matter?
my orders came through. my squadron ships out tomorrow. I will be leading a very important mission.
oh, ted, please be careful. i worry about you so much.
i love you, elaine.
i love you.
we have a visitor.
hello.
do you want me to check the weather, clarence?
no, why do not you take care ot it?
we would better get back now.
joey can stay up here for a while if he would like to.
wait a minute. i know you. you are kareem abdul jabbar. you play basketball for the los angeles lakers!
I am sorry, son, but you must have me confused with someone else. my name is roger murdock. I am the co-pilot.
you are kareem. I have seen you play. my dad's got season tickets!
i think you should go back to your seat now, joey. right, clarence?
no, he is not bothering anyone. let him stay up here.
all right. but just remember, my name is roger murdock.
I am an airline pilot.  ah, clarence, according to my calculations, with this tailwind we ought to be able to make up an additional fifteen minutes over the rockies.
i think you are the greatest. but my dad says you do not work hard enough on defense.
denver control, this is flight two-zero- niner intersecting victor airway seven- niner-niner.
...and that lots of times you do not even run down court.
we are turning left to a heading of zero- niner-niner.
...and that you do not really try, except during the playoffs.
the hell i don't! I am out there busting my buns every night.
elaine, just hear me out. i know things have not been right for a long time. but it will be different...like it was in the beginning. remember?
i remember everything. all i have are memories.
mostly i remember...the nights when we were together. i remember how you used to hold me...and how i used to sit on your face and wriggle...and then afterwards how we would watch until the sun came up. when it did, it was almost like...like each new day was created...only for us.
that is the way I have always wanted it to be, elaine.
but it will not be. not as long as you insist on living in the past!
you got a telegram from headquarters today.
headquarters!? what is it?
it is a big building where the generals meet. but that is not important right now. they have cleared you of any blame for what happened on that raid. is not that good news?
is it? because of my mistake six men did not return from that raid.
seven. lieutenant zipp died this morning. ted, doctor sandler says you will be out in a week. is not that wonderful?
i wish i could say the same for george zipp.
be patient, ted. no one expects you to get over this immediately.
what is his problem?
that is lieutennt hurwitz. severe shell shock. he thinks he is ethel merman.
excuse me, sir. would you like some coffee before we serve dinner?
no. no thank you.
would either of you like another cup of coffee?
i will, but jim won't.
excuse me, sister?
yes?
there is a little girl on board who is ill and...
oh yes, i saw. poor child.
could i borrow your guitar? i thought i might be able to cheer her up.
of course.
hi!
I am randy.
I am lisa. oh, you have a guitar!
i thought maybe you would like to hear a song.
oh, I would love to.
okay, this is one of my favorites.
hey, we have been waiting for you. a little bit late tonight.
who wants to be first?
i think they are getting the hang of it! when we re-enlist I will teach them baseball!
ted, i do not want to stay here. it is time for us to go back home -- to the plans we made before the war.
a lot of people made plans before the war. like george zipp.
oh, i can not stand it.
what is it?
airsick?
i think so, but I have never seen it so acute.
find out if there is a doctor on board, as quietly as you can.
sir. excuse me, sir. I am sorry to have to wake you. are you a doctor?
that is right.
we have some passengers who are very sick. could you come and take a look at them?
yes. yes, of course.
you would better tell the captain. we have got to land as soon as we can. this woman has to be gotten to a hospital.
a hospital? what is it?
it is a big building with patients. but that is not important right now. tell the captain i must speak to him.
certainly.
captain, how soon can we land?
i can not tell.
can not you take a guess?
well...not for another two hours.
you can not take a guess for another two hours?
no, i mean we can not land for another two hours. fog has closed down everything this side of the mountains. we have got to go through to chicago!
what is it, doctor? what is happening?
I am not sure. i have not seen anything like this since the lina wertmuller film festival.
what was it we had for dinner tonight?
well, we had a choice. steak or fish.
yes, yes, i remember. i had lasagna.
what did he have?
he had fish.
yes?
oh, stewardess. my husband is very sick. can you do something, please?
well, the doctor will be with you in just a moment. one thing: do you know what he had for dinner?
yes, of course. we both had fish. why?
oh, it is nothing to be alarmed about. we will get back to you very quickly.
doctor rumack, mister hammen ate fish. and randy says there are five more cases, and they ate fish, too.
let's see now. the co-pilot had fish. what did the navigator eat?
he had fish, too.
just how serious is it, doctor?
extremely serious. it starts with a slight fever.
elaine, you are a member of this crew. can you face some unpleasant facts?
no.
all right. unless i can get all these people to a hospital quickly, i can not even be sure of saving their lives. now, is there anyone else on board who can land this plane?
well...
no. no one that i know of.
i think you ought to know what our chances are. the life of everyone on board depends on just one thing: finding someone back there who not only can fly this plane, but who did not have fish for dinner.
hello, I am paul carey from the airline. I am here to pick up captain kramer.
oh, yes. come in, paul. rex will be right out.
shep, sit...sit! so, i understand you have got a real emergency down there.
well, to tell the truth, they really did not fill me in on many of the details. just told me to pick up captain kramer.
something about a plane with no pilot?
yeah, something like that, but as i say, they did not have time to tell me very much.
shep, no! I will bet you have exciting things happen all the time down there.
...but after...awhile...you begin to...  ...get used to it.
shep, no! he gets so excited when new people are here.
excuse me, sir. there is been a little problem in the cockpit and i was wondering...
the cockpit? what is it?
it is the little room at the front of the plane where the pilots sit. but that is not important right now. the first officer is ill and the captain would like someone with flying experience to help him with the radio. do you know anything about planes?
well, i flew in the war, but that was a long time ago. i would not know anything about it.
would you go up, please?
both pilots!
can you fly this airplane and land it?
surely you can not be serious.
i am serious, and do not call me shirley! what flying experience have you had?
well, i flew single-engine fighters in the air force, but this plane has four engines. it is an entirely different kind of flying...all together!!!
ted! what are you doing? you can not fly this plane!
that is what I have been trying to tell these people.
elaine, i have not time to put this gently, so I will be very direct. everyone of us on this plane is in a desperate situation. mister striker is the only hope we have got.
let's see. those are the flaps, that is the thrust, this must turn on the landing lights.
rain.
and a little ice.
and a little ice!
sluggish. like a wet sponge.
sluggish. like a wet sponge.
it is a damn good thing he does not know how much i hate his guts.
it is a damn good thing you do not know how much he hates your guts.
how ya doing, honey?
oh jack, I am so warm. I am burning up.
here.
after my wife died, i felt like a fifth wheel. you know, so many years being with one person -- a very wonderful person -- makes you always think of yourself as part of a pair...when ethel passed away, i was lost. i could not function socially and i could not function in business.
well, after a thing like that you would not be expected to.
but i think it is time we stopped talking about me. a woman like you -- why have not you ever married?
well, I am afraid that is a question that is all too easy to answer.
i know the answer -- career. a smart woman like you became so involved in your work, you did not have time for marriage.
i wish i could fool myself into believing that that is the reason. the truth of the matter is, nobody ever asked me.
you know, here we are having coffee together, and discussing education and business and economy...and we do not even know each other's names...full names i mean.
mine's eleanor. eleanor schiff.
that is a lovely name. mine's milton...milt ettenhenim. but my friends call me 'bubbles.'
...safe and sound and free to pursue a life of religious fulfillment.
chicago, the passengers are beginning to panic. when do we start down?
will the hospital equipment be at the airport?
yes, everything they have got. how are the passengers doing?
i will not deceive you, mister striker. we are running out of time.
surely there must be something you can do.
I am doing everything i can! -- and stop calling me shirley!
rats! I have lost number three.
what happened, ted? what went wrong?
oil pressure. i forgot to check the oil pressure. when kramer hears about this, the shit's going to hit the fan.
but ted, you are the only...
i do not care. i just do not have what it takes. they would be better off with someone who would never flown before.
george zipp said that?
and the last thing he said to me, "doc," he said, "sometime when the crew is up against it and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they have got and win just one for the zipper. i do not know where I will be then, doc," he said, "but i will not smell too good. that is for sure."
excuse me, doc, I have got a plane to land.
and get that finger out of your ear. you do not know where that finger's been! gunderson?
yes, captain?
did you decide on a runway yet?
runway niner. it is the longest, and directly into the wind.
eight miles. turn right to heading zero eight niner.
you are now eight miles from the airport. turn right to a heading of zero eight niner, throttle back slightly and begin to lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet.
he is all over the place! nine hundred feet up to thirteen hundred feet! what an asshole!
watch your altitude, striker. it is too erratic. you can not come straight in. you have got enough fuel left for two hours flying. you have got to stay up there 'til we get a break in the weather.
mr. striker, the passengers are ready.
thank you, randy. you better leave sweetheart. you might get hurt in here.
ted...
yes?
i wanted you to know -- now -- I am very proud.
tell them the gear is down and we are ready to land.
the gear is down.
I am sure we will both make it...but just in case one of us...well, is there a message you would like me to give someone?
no. I am all alone.
just in case i do not have a chance to say goodbye, i want you to know that i have not spent so many pleasant hours for many years.
that is a very nice compliment, and I would like to say that...you've done the same for me.
he is right on the heading.
all right, he is on final now! put out all runway lights except niner.
see them, elaine?
uh-huh.
