hope their plumbing's the same.
it is.
how can i go?
put on your wash-and-wear suit and your clip-on tie, have your landlady tie your shoes for you, and show up at the church.  simple.  me and carol are going.
what?
hey, look -- we have known kristin since... since she was conceived in that cabin up in big bear. remember?  you and edie banged the wall so hard, me and carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week...
goddammit, tug -- i want to see kristin get married, okay?  but--
but you are bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying for the whole thing.
shit, if kristin had to get married where i could afford it, we would be holding the reception at buddy's burgers.
does that look at all suspicious to you?
whatever gave you that idea?
you got your vest?
of course.  right in the trunk of the car.
yeah, that is comforting.  mine, too.
watch the driver.  I am going for a better angle on the door.
i got him.  do not get pinned.
get outta there!
i can't!  do you mind!
I will cover you!  get outta there!!
so what have you got on tuggle's killers?
jesus, sykes -- it is been less than ten hours.  me and alterez are on it, okay?
you do not have squat.
you ever try to make a case in slagtown?  the list of newcomer informants is about as long as the list of mexican war heroes...
yeah, sykes?
captain.  I would like to volunteer for duty with the new detective.
you are to have nothing to do with the investigation into bill tuggle's death.  you know that.  leave that for fedorchuk.
departmental policy.
you?
granger and pitts are already on it.
granger and pitts have one hell of a caseload... and i would have thought with jetson here being the first newcomer plainclothes, and hubley's body being found over in the newcomer community...
do not tell me what to think.
... and we work my hours.  I will do the driving, you do the paperwork. you got to learn it so you might as well do it all.
sergeant... I would like to thank you for what you are doing.
what is that?  look, jetson.  get this straight in your head.  we are not pals, we are not married, and we am not going to take long moonlight walks together... we are just partners.  and do not call me sergeant.  call me sykes... or matt if you have to.
i am george.
man, somebody really hung one on you!  I have heard some good ones for you guys... humphrey bogart, harley davidson.  i guess the people at immigration got a little punchy after a while, coming up with names for a quarter of a million of you. you were not at the back of the line, were you, george?
my true name is ss'tangya t'ssorentsa'.
gesundheit.  you do not mind if i stick to george, do you?
anyway, what is it matter to you if we think it is funny, right?  whatta you care?
that is exactly so.  it is like your name... sykes.  I am sure it does not bother you at all that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss", two words in my language which mean "excrement" and "cranium".
let's talk hubley.
his body was discovered three days ago, in an alley off of central avenue, near downtown.
with two bri sabot slugs in the chest.
through the chest.  rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts.
nice signal, dickwad!
terrific.  a real pillar of the community.  was hubley missing anything when they found him?  was he ripped off?
there was no wallet... but he was still wearing a watch and two rings.
the guys at the mini-mart last night made a half-assed stab at the money in the till -- but i do not think that is what they were there for.  i think we got us a couple'a executions on our hands, george...
the murder at the mini-mart is not our case.  the captain said--
look, you want to fit in here, right?  you want to learn how to get along?
yes.
well, there is a thing about partners, about being somebody is partner.  you do for each other. and other people's rules do not mean shit.  it is the rules set up between the two of you, that is all that counts.  understand?  okay.  well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I am after the shitbag that did it.  as my partner, I am asking you to respect me and help me find him.
what is wrong?
nothing's wrong.  i just want to get something straight.  you agree that there is a good chance these two shootings are somehow related, right?
well... yes, quite possibly.
possibly.  good.  well, would you be willing to accept the theory, george, that... possibly... by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other?  does that sound unreasonable to you?
yes... no, it is not unreasonable. although i--
great.  well, I am sure glad that is settled, are not you?
you know I have been over all this with fedorchuk and alterez this morning...
come on.  you got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.
yeah, right.  do not push your luck. anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car--
the human?
yeah... he was one martin helder. white male, twenty-seven.  let's see... wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock.
no i.d. on him and -- well, you know, no fingerprints -- so it could be tough.  your buddies this morning went through the mug book but could not make a facial match.
fedorchuk could not find his ass with his hands in his back pockets.
you took this gut out, too, did not you?
yeah.
lucky for you, you got him in both of his... well, what we loosely refer to as... hearts.
lucky nothing.  i had to empty my damn gun into him.
that is the way these people are. you do not hit both pumps you just piss them off.
oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one.  we are just about to start cutting in.  you are welcome to stick around if you want.  it is really fascinating stuff.
yeah, I will bet.
what is this?  what is going on?
nothing.
nothing?
should not we examine their personal effects?
what is this?
a rubber.  a condom.  you know... coney island whitefish?  men, human men, put them on their, uh -- penises -- to protect against having babies.  you need this for anything?
get the picture?
and that fits?
well... yeah, it is rubber.  it stretches.
and still it fits?
newcomers working near methane gasses at oil refineries must paint it on their boots to protect against sparks.
how the hell do you know that?
a large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us. my spouse's brother is one.
so the slag they are cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like hubley worked at a refinery.  I would say that "possible" connection between the two cases just got a hell of a lot more possible.  okay, next step -- i got to go talk to the wife of the slag store owner blown away last night.
i believe i should interview the widow alone.
why the hell--?!  great, fine.  you talk to the wife.
mr. hubley was an all right guy -- and a damn good manager.  the men liked him.  I am really going to have to scramble to fill his shoes.
well, one of the men did not like him so much...
you think this is the guy who did it?
we think he could'a been involved, yeah.  you know him?
to be honest, it is hard to say.  i hate to admit it but -- they all still kinda look alike to me.
who else can i ask around here?
wait.  you know who it looks like? yeah.  anderson.  uh... james anderson.  he is not in today.  he took the afternoon off.
i think you are going to find he is taken the rest of his life off.
that where anderson worked?
yes it is.  thirty-five percent pure methane gas in there.  i do not know how these fellas do it.
mrs. porter is not taking her husband's death well.
did you learn anything?
a week ago two men came to see her husband.  after they left, he was very frightened.  she identified one of the men from a photo i showed her.  it was hubley.
aw-right.  what about the other guy?
she did not know him.  but she said her son might.
did you talk to him?
he has not been home since that day. but she told me where to find him.
william harcourt?
yes...
I am sergeant sykes, and this is detective jetson, los angeles police department.
sergeant... detective.  i was not aware there were any newcomers at the rank of detective yet.
rudyard kipling?  no shit?  listen, we just need a minute of your time...
we would like to ask you about a business associate of your, warren hubley.
yes, i heard about poor warren. tragic.
you were partners with him on some slag -- uh, newcomer real estate thing.
that is right.  he and i, along with seven or eight others.  listen, gentlemen, i will be happy to assist you in any way i can -- unfortunately, at the moment, I am overdue at another function.
that cop, the human, he was the one who killed anderson and the driver.
this is becoming a serious breach of security.
he did not recognize me.
it is his new partner that I am worried about.
you said you wanted the biggest thing i could find... well, this is it.
what is it?
casull .454 magnum.  you are talking twice the impact energy of .44 magnum hot loads.
only holds five.
yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder.  hell, matt, you do not need but one.
no... two.
why did you do it?
why did i do what?
agree to work with me?  you do not like me... you do not like any of us. you have nothing but contempt for us.  and yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner...
my partner is dead!  because one of you bastards killed him -- then disappeared into a rathole down in slagtown, where he is home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing...
who said that?
at the end of the bar.
your name would not happen to be porter, would it?
uh, matthew...
back off, george.
but i-- .
I will handle it.
jesus, are the questions too tough for you already?  let's try again--  is your name porter?
ss'kya'ta'.
what is that?
screw you.
screw me?  that can not be right.
tell me.
your mother mates out of season.
that is very colorful.  but see -- now I have got a problem.  i do not seem to be getting much cooperation from you, porter.  so i guess we are going to have to take this little session down to my office, ya know?
matthew, you do not have to-- .
stay back!  I am okay.
you know that guy?
from quarantine, when my people first arrived here.  he and i were housed together.
how could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him?
in the camps, we were lodged four to a room.  the selection process was entirely random.  we did not get to stay with our friends... or families...
one of the two men was hubley, right?  what about the other one? did you know him?
yeah... i seen him around.  high- roller dude named strader.  joshua strader.  runs a club on the west side.  encounters.
yeah, i heard of it.
that is all i know.  you want anything more, you ask somebody else.
if i may make a suggestion... we have different weak spots than you do.  next time, a blow to the nerve plexus under the arm, here, will produce the effect i think you were looking for.
yeah, sure.  i knew that...
i do not think i could ever learn to read that shit.  how long did it take you to learn english?
three months.  we learn quickly.  we adapt.  it is our strength... what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile environments.
which one is that?  raw what?
this is mole.  it is good.
I will bet.  would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two?
our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been cooked.
so what was that other word for human... slow ka?
ss'loka'.  it means literally "small but intelligent creature".  it loses much in the translation.
and what was that one about my mother?  that was a good one.
ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'.
yeah, that is it.  say it slow.
you are cassandra?
that is right.
we are with the police department. this is sergeant sykes, and i am--
ss'ai k'ss?  perfect.
he is not here.  why ask me?
the young woman at the front said you might know where he is.
she did, did she?  well, she was wrong.  excuse me, i have to change.
oooh.  hardball.  that sounds interesting.  are you going to strike me?  you could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me... I have got my own ropes.
does that cost extra or you throw them in?
you have got me all wrong.  i do not charge money for something that i myself find pleasurable...
look, i do not know where mr. strader might be.  he comes and he goes.
the girl out front mentioned strader's assistant, somebody named watson.  maybe he knows.
todd?  todd does not know either.
i know... why do not you hang around for a while, let me entertain you? it is matt, right?  now tell me the truth, have you ever... made it... with one of us?
not unless i got real drunk and nobody told me about it later.
a virgin.  i find that very arousing...
there is lots of things i have not done, but his am not high on the list.  do not take it personally.
i think you are just a little scared now, about what you might find once the lights go out.  a little scared... and a lot curious.  maybe more than you want to admit.  but does not that turn you on, that curiosity and fear, swirling together?  think of it as broadening your horizons.
i like my horizons narrow.
your voice is saying no, but your body is saying yes.
who is he?
todd watson.  the assistant manager.
we were chasing you because you ran, you dumb son-of-a-bitch.
when will strader return?
i believe he is probably lying.
through his ass.  next time you see him, tell him to call me... unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes.
when we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops -- the two who came to question you about hubley.
this is getting out of hand.  i want you to deal with it.  immediately.
so, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she?
my wife?  she worries about me.
yeah... i know the routine.
you are married?
was.  divorced.
we mate for life.  divorce... is a strange concept to us.
it is like having an eleventh finger removed.  it hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place.
your home is quite disordered.  i thought perhaps you had been burglarized when i walked in.
i appreciate your honesty, george.
human children can be very beautiful.  getting married?  congratulations. you will be taking sunday off, then...
maybe not... i do not know.  I am not sure I am going to go.  she does not need her burn-out of a father there...
... and so, and so the doctor says, "if this is the thermometer, then where did i leave the pen?"  you are not... you do not think that is funny?  george, work with me, i always get a laugh with that one. look, if the doctor's got the thermometer in his hand, then where is his pen got to be?
in the other man's rectum.
sticking out of his ass... yeah! see, that is what makes it a joke. there is like a surprise, and your mind fills in the funny picture. here's this guy with a pen stuck in his ass and he thinks it is a thermometer.  nada, huh?
your health...
ta ss'trakyona'...
there is so much our two peoples do not understand about each other.
no shit, holmes.  you are only from another goddamn planet, for chrissakes.
you humans are very curious to us. you invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we have never known before.  you lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities... you give us ownership of our lives for the first time... and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules... rules that are not made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality.  you aspire to very high ideals here.
i hope you can understand how special your world is... how unique a people you humans are.  so it us all the more painful and confusing to us that so few of you seem capable of living up the the ideals you set for yourselves.
do not count on me, george.  i never had any ideals.
I am going home.
yeah, go home.  get some sleep.  you do sleep, do not you?
where did you get this?!!
a man, a human, was wiring it to your car.  i did not get a good look at him.  i must call my wife...
she is going to divorce me.
george, she is not going to divorce you. you mate for life, remember?
she is very progressive.  I am certain she is considering it.
well, let's roll, george.
to the... to the beach?
come on, let's go, dude.  surf's up!
stop the car.
why?
please, i must get out here.
come on, you will not have to get near the water.
stop the car!
it is all right, george.  it is cool. just wait here, all right?  I will be back in a coupla minutes.
thank you.
look at your dildo partner.  he is too scared to even come down to the sand.  you are not going to get wet standing here, moron!
I would like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid, fedorchuk... see how much surfin' you would do.
well, if it is not detective jetson. forget you hip waders, big guy?
lay off, asshole.
i may be an asshole, but at least I am a real detective, not some outer shit space thing.
what was that about?
nothing.
... so we have got three guys dead. all newcomers, all killed the same way -- execution style.
warren hubley was in middle management at a refinery... joshua strader operated a successful bar and nightclub...
... and porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart.  so what the hell's the connection?
you guys finished the postmortem on strader yet?
you mean the blob?  they are finishing up now.
what kind of test?
looking for some foreign compound in the blood of that alien you dropped the other day.
did he find anything?
what is this nothing shit?  it was not nothing yesterday when you asked bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits, and it is not nothing now.  do not lie to me, george, you are bad at it.
you must leave me alone on this.
no secrets, goddammit!  you do not hold back from me.  whatever is going on, you are going to tell me now!
no.  i cannot involve you.  this is not your concern.
the hell it isn't, when somebody wires up enough c-4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist!  that slag was on something, and not sour milk, either?  am i right?  tell me!  what is it?
... it is called ss'jabroka'.  to us it is a potent narcotic.
how potent?
like your cocaine, i suppose.  the "high" lasts several hours.  we would receive small amounts of it... as a reward for our labor.
we?  you have taken it?
we all did.
where did he get it?  was there any of it on the ship?
no... i am sure not.  that is why i am so concerned... someone must now be producing it here.  but none of my people know how to make it.  the process was carefully guarded.
jesus, this is major.  why did not you tell me sooner? why did you hold out on me?
your people do not know about this part of out past.  and they can not know -- it would threaten our entire existence here.
george... look me in the eye... george, you do not ever lie to me again.
i must trust you, matthew.  i cannot stop this without you.
here's hubley.  left quarantine on november thirtieth, relocated first to riverside, then moved to los angeles early in february the following year.  field of expertise: chemical manufacturing.  looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the refinery.
try joshua strader, will ya, darlin'?
for you, anything.
released december one.  he and his wife moved first to modesto, then coalinga, california -- wherever that is -- settled in l.a. in april.  field of expertise: organic chemical engineering.  he and his wife have one child, a son.
yeah -- we met him.  wonderful boy... close personal friend of george's here.
I am sorry, matt.  nothing here seems to be matching up...
can you dig up their quarantine records in this thing?
sure.  just a minute.
they had months in quarantine to develop the plan.  porter, with his chemistry background, must have somehow come up with the formula for the drug.  hubley manufactured it -- at the refinery.  strader, through the nightclub, established a distribution network.  and harcourt--
harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.
okay, george -- we gotta play this real smart.
if the drug is here, we must destroy it.
no, george -- you are missing the point.  the drug is evidence.  we need to have the evidence, ya know?
uh, george...
where is the drug?  where have they taken it?
george, uh... you are going to break his little chest bones...
stay out of this, matthew.  tell me where the drug has been taken or i will crush your lungs against this wall.
do not piss him off, o'neal.  when he gets like this, i can not control him. I have seen this before.  he got like this once -- i saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. nothing i could do.  i hadda go throw up.
... they took the stuff out, all of it -- this afternoon.
george, c'mon -- lighten up.  it is a beauty of a case.  do not sweat it -- we got him by the short hairs. he am not going to make any more of the shit.
the fifty kilos, matthew.  i have to find it.  i can not let it get out on the street.
why?  what is the big goddamn deal?

fuck procedure.
in there.
show me.
kill them both.
here?
do it!
you okay?
yeah...
shit!
ss-ai!
move a finger, harcourt, and you are history...
no, sergeant -- not history...  eternity...
with harcourt and kipling dead, i assume you will be requesting reassignment now.
it would be for your own good.  i think you would be better off with a partner who is a little more... by the book.  ... still, i got to tell you, george, for a quiet guy, you are sure hell on wheels once you get going.  I would kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective.
what is this about, george?  i know that look.
there!  go back.  down that side street.
no!  we must do this alone.
do what?!  george-- ?!
what is this?!
... it is harcourt.
harcourt is dead.
no he is not.  not if he overdosed on the drug.  massive amounts trigger a... a change.  your body functions seize up, you appear to be dead, but it is really a state of incubation.  when you emerge you're...
tell me about it...
i never thought I would say this, but -- for once in my life i think I am willing to wait for back-up.
we can not let him get away.
why the hell are you so dead set against back-up?
because... because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming.
but there is no more drug.
you understand that.  but how many others will?
how do i look?
you look very good.
