oh... god... am i cold...
is that you, roby?
i feel like shit...
yeah, it is you all right.
it is over, hunter.
boy, that is terrific.
well, how does it feel to be rich men?
I am going to buy a cattle ranch.
cattle ranch!
I am not kidding.  you can get one if you have the credit.  look just like real cows, too.
all right, tycoons, let's stop spending our credit and start worrying about the job at hand.
right.  fire up all systems.
sandy, you want to give us some vision?
feast your eyes.
where is irth?
sandy, scan the whole sky.
where are we?
sandy, contact traffic control.
i do not recognize that constellation.
dell, plot our location.
i got it.  oh boy.
where the hell are we?
just short of zeta ii reticuli.  we have not even reached the outer rim yet.
this is chaz speaking.  sorry, but we are not home.  our present location seems to be only halfway to irth. remain at your posts and stand by. that is all.
chaz, I have got something here on my security alert.  a high priority from the computer...
let's hear it.
computer, you have signalled a priority three message.  what is the message?
i have interrupted the course of the voyage.
what?  why?
i am programmed to do so if certain conditions arise.
computer, this is captain standard. what conditions are you talking about?
i have intercepted a transmission of unknown origin.
a transmission?
a voice transmission.
i have recorded the transmission.
play it for us, please.
computer, what language was that?
unknown.
unknown!  what do you mean?
it is none of the 678 dialects spoken by technological man.
just hold it, hold it!  computer: have you attempted to analyze the transmission?
yes.  there are two points of salient interest.  number one: it is highly systematized, indicating intelligent origin.  number two: certain sounds are inconsistent with the human palate.
oh my god.
well, it is finally happened.
first contact...
sandy, can you home in on that beam?
what is the frequency?
computer, what is the frequency of the transmission?
I have got it.  it is coming from ascension 6 minutes 32 seconds, declination -39 degrees 2 seconds.
dell -- show me that on a screen.
can you get it a little closer?
that is what I am going to do.
any rotation?
yeah.  two hours.
gravity?
point eight six.  we can walk on it.
if there is some kind of alien intelligence down on that planetoid, it would be a serious mistake for us to blunder in unequipped.
hell, we are equipped --
hell, no!  we do not know what is down there on that piece of rock!  it might be dangerous!  what we should do is get on the radio to the exploration authorities... and let them deal with it.
except it will take 75 years to get a reply back.  do not forget how far we are from the colonies, martin.
there are no commercial lanes out here.  face it, we are out of range.
men have waited centuries to contact another form of intelligent life in the universe.  this is an opportunity which may never come again.
look --
dell, i want greater magnification. more surface detail.  i want to see what this place looks like.
I will see what i can do.
it is out of focus.
no -- that is atmosphere.  cloud layer.
my god, it is stormy for a piece of rock that size!
just a second.  those are not water vapor clouds; they have no moisture content.
activate lifter quads.
activated.  vertical drop checked. correcting course.  on tangential course now, orbiting.  crossing the terminator.  entering night side.
atmospheric turbulence.  dust storm.
turn on navigation lights.
approaching point of origin.  closing at 20 kilometers, 15 and slowing. ten.  five.  gentlemen, we are directly above the source of the transmission.
what is the terrain down there?
well, line of sight is impossible due to dust.  radar gives me noise. sonar gives me noise.  infrared -- noise.  let's try ultraviolet.  there. flat.  it is totally flat.  a plain.
is it solid?
it's... basalt.  rock.
then take her down.
drop begins... now!  fifteen kilometers and dropping... twelve... ten... eight and slowing.  five. three.  two.  one kilometer and slowing.  lock tractor beams.
locked.
kill drive engines.
engines off.
nine hundred meters and dropping. 800.  700.  hang on gentlemen.
what the hell happened?
engine room, what happened?
just a minute, hold it, I am checking.
has the hull been breached?
martin, this is jay.  the intakes are clogged with dust.  we overheated and burned out a whole cell.
damn it!  how long to fix?
how long to fix?
hard to say.
well, get started.
right.  talk to you.
well, we can not go anywhere in this darkness.  how long till dawn?
well... this rock rotates every two hours.  the sun should be coming up in about 20 minutes.
good!  maybe we will be able to see something then.
or something will be able to see us.
there could be a whole city out there and we would never see it.
not sitting on our butts in here, that is for sure.
just settle down.  sandy, you get any response yet?
sorry.  nothing but that same damn transmission, every 32 seconds.  I have tried every frequency on the spectrum.
hello, faust!
yeah!
how is it coming on the engines?
yeah, okay.
sandy... how far are we from the source of the transmission?
source of transmission is to the northeast... about 300 meters.
close...
close enough to walk to!
martin, would you run me an atmospheric?
10% argon, 85% nitrogen, 5% neon... and some trace elements.
nontoxic... but unbreathable. pressure?
ten to the fourth dynes per square centimeter.
good!  moisture content?
zero.  dry as a bone.
any microorganisms?
not a one.  it is dead.
anything else?
yeah, rock particles.  dust.
well, we will not need pressure suits, but breathing masks are called for. sandy -- can you rig up some kind of portable unit that we can use to follow that transmission to its source?
I am sending.  do you hear me?
receiving.
receiving.
all right.  now just remember: keep away from those weapons unless i say otherwise.  martin, do you read me?
that way.
you lead.
okay, chaz, i hear you.  I have got you on my board.
good.  I am getting you clear too. let's just keep the line open.
what is wrong?
my signal's fading.
it is close, real close.
how far?
we should be almost on top of it.  i just can not quite...
martin, uh, we have found it.
found what?
it appears to be some sort of spacecraft.  we are going to approach it.
appears to be a door hanging open, the entrance is clogged with debris.
looks like a derelict.
martin, we are going in.  I am going to hold the conversation to a minimum from here on.
air lock?
who knows?
I will go first.
no, you will follow me.
just machinery.
but functioning.
martin?
i agree.  this is the single most important discovery in history.
but?
what killed it?
he died.
what?
not they... he...
jay... how is it coming on the repairs?
well... I am going to have to blow the engines out...
and when will you be ready to do that?
oh -- I am not near ready yet.
then why the hell are you sitting around here?
right.
find anything we missed?
i do not even know what I am looking for.
still worried?
oh well... you know me.
I have always respected your opinion, martin.  if something worries you, it worries me.
what would you say that was supposed to mean?
well... it is obviously intentional... some kind of attempt at communication... maybe it is a symbol that means something to them...
but why draw it on the wall?
this ship is full of cat hair.
tell you what, martin.  as soon as the engine's fixed --
this is chaz.
chaz, this is dell.  can you come topside for a minute?
what is up?
well, the sun just came up again, and it seems the wind's died down. it is as clear as a bell outside. there is something i think you ought to see.
I am on my way.
what is it?
take a look.
i was scanning the horizon to see what i could pick up.  look there, on that screen.
what is it, i can not --
does not seem much doubt about it, does there?
that creature sure must have considered it important... using his last strength to draw it...
now what is wrong?
I have completely lost their signal.
can you get them back?
I am trying.
this looks ancient.
can not tell -- these weather conditions could erode anything, fast.
sorry to interrupt, but I am going to charge up the engines for a minute, okay?
yeah, okay.  go ahead.
yes!
i have a temporary sequence on the monitor --
hold it, i can not hear a damn thing!
what?  what was that?
the computer just translated the goddamn message.  it is not an s.o.s. it was a warning.
maybe we can get in by the top.
you want to try?
sure.
can we come up?
no, it is too small, only room enough for one person.
can you see anything in the hole?
yes?  what is it?
jay, we have got a problem.  i was wondering if there was any way you could shortcut the repairs and give us immediate takeoff capability.
why, what is wrong?
the computer's translated the alien signal, and it is kind of alarming.
what do you mean?
it could not translate the whole thing, only three phrases.  I will just read it to you the way i got it:  "... hostile... survival... advise do not land... "  and that is all it could translate.
dell, you want to come down, we can figure out where to go from here.
no, i want to go in.
okay, I am in the mouth of the chimney now, and I am starting down.
take care.
are you okay in there?
yeah, I am okay.  have not hit bottom yet.  definitely a column of warm air rising; it keeps the shaft clear of dust.
what was that dell, i lost you, do you read me?
yeah, but this is hard work.  can not talk now.
what did he say?
i could not make it out -- too much interference.
I am getting nowhere.  the whole area around the pyramid is dead to transmission.  i think we should go after them.
no.
what do you mean, no?
we are not going anywhere.
but they do not know about the translation!  they could be in danger right now.
we can not spare the personnel.  we have got minimum takeoff capability right now.  that is why chaz left us on board.
why, you chickenshit bastard --
just can that crap!  I am in command here till chaz returns!  and nobody's leaving this ship!
if we do not hear from him soon, i think we better go in after him.
sun will be down in a minute.
here's his line.  we can haul him out of there if we have to.
it will yank him right off his feet if he is not expecting it.  the line could get tangled in something.
but what can we do?  he is out of radio contact.
maybe we should just wait a few more minutes.
there, it caught!
is it still coming up, or is it hooked on something?
no, it is coming.
can you see anything?
what is it?
don't touch him, watch it!
oh god, oh god no.
help me -- I am going to try to get it off.
it will not come -- it is stuck.
what is it?
how the hell should i know?  come on, give me a hand, let's get him out of there!
I have got 'em!  they are back on my screens!
how many?
three blips!  they are coming this way!
hey, can you guys hear me?
yeah, we hear you!  we are coming back!
thank christ!  we lost you!  listen, there is been a new development --
can not talk now; broussard's injured. we will need some help getting him into the ship.
oh no.
jay, this is cleave!  meet me at the main air lock!
what the hell's going on?
do not know -- broussard got hurt somehow.
hurt!  how?
do not know -- maybe we will be real lucky and he just broke his neck.  i knew we should not of come down here.
here, chaz.
we are coming up now, open the outer lock door.
chaz -- what happened to broussard?
it is some kind of organism, it is attached itself to him.  let us in.
you hear me, martin?  open the outer door.
chaz, if it is an organism, and we let it in, the ship will be infected.
we can not leave him out here, open the door.
chaz, listen to me -- we have broken every rule of quarantine.  if we bring an organism on board, we will not have a single layer of defense left.
martin, this is an order!  open the door!
oh -- god -- oh --
is it alive?
that thing, god almighty, did not you try to get it off him?
it would not come.
it is really on there tight.
here, let me try.
it is not coming off -- not without his whole face coming off too.
let's let the machine work on him.
hey now, what is this?
ask him.
i understand why you did that.
good.
he would not open the lock; he was going to leave us out there.
yeah... well, maybe he should have.  i mean, you brought the goddamn thing in here.  maybe you deserve to get slapped.
i keep my mouth pretty much shut, but i do not like hitting.
i guess i had it coming.  let's call it settled.
would somebody fill me in?
he went into the pyramid alone.  we lost radio contact with him.  when we pulled him out, it was on his face. it will not come off, not without injuring him.
where did it come from?
he's the only one that knows that.
how does he breathe?
blood's thoroughly oxygenated.
yeah, but how?  his nose and mouth are blocked.
look at that.
what is it -- i can not tell anything --
it is some kind of organ -- it is inserted some kind of tube or something down his throat.
oh... god...
i think that is how it is getting oxygen to him.
it does not make any sense.  it paralyzes him... puts him into a coma... then keeps him alive.
we can not expect to understand a life form like this.  we are out of our back yard.  things are different here.
well, can not we kill it?  i mean, we can not leave the damn thing on him.
we do not know what might happen if we tried to kill it.  at least right now it is keeping him alive.
how about cutting it off?  we can not pull it loose, but we can cut off everything but the bottom layer, where it is stuck to his face.
god, that smoke's poisonous!
it is eating a hole in the floor!
there.  should be coming through about there.
careful, do not get under it!
what is happening up here?
i think it is fizzled out.
i never saw anything like that in my life... except molecular acid.
but this thing uses it for blood.
hell of a defense mechanism.  you do not dare kill it.
it is stopped?
yes, thank heaven.
we are just plain lucky.  that could have gone right through the hull -- taken weeks to patch it.
reminded me of when i was a kid and the roof leaked -- everybody running for the pots and pans.
no, thank god... just missed him.
is it still dripping?
it appears to have healed itself.
it makes me sick to see him like that.
is not there some way we can get it off him?
it appears to be a heavy fluid of some sort... it blocks the x-rays...
that tube must be depositing it in him.
could be some kind of venom, or poison...
this is horrible.
hey!  what about the film?
what film?
broussard had film in his datastick, did not he?  we can see what happened to him.
that must have been when he got it.
the same thing must have happened to the creatures on the other ship... except they took one of those jars on board, and opened it there.
it is a crude symbolic language -- looks primitive.
you can not tell -- that kind of stuff could represent printed circuits...
that sounds a little fanciful...
primitive pictorial languages are based on common objects in the environment, and this can be used as a starting point for translation...
what common objects?
listen, had not somebody better check on broussard?
I will do it.  the rest of you continue.
I will come with you.
you know, it is fantastic -- the human race has gone this long without ever encountering another advanced life form, and now we run into a veritable zoo.
what do you mean?
well, those things out there are not the same, you know -- the spaceship and the pyramid.  they are from different cultures and different races.  that ship just landed here -- crashed like we did.  the pyramid and the thing from it are indigenous.
how could anything be indigenous to this asteroid?  it is dead.
maybe it was not always dead.
now we are in for it.
the door was closed.  it must still be in here.
no, do not open the door.  we do not want it escaping.
well, what the hell good can we do in here?  we can not grab it -- it might jump on us --
maybe we can catch it.
look at these suckers -- no wonder we could not get it off him.
is that its mouth?
yes?
how is broussard?
he is running a fever.
still unconscious?
yes.
can you do anything for him?
the machine will bring his temperature down.  his vital functions are strong.
good.
these day and night cycles are totally disorienting.  i feel like we have been here for days, but it is only been how long?
about four hours.
I am sorry to say it looks like you were right in the first place, martin.  we never should have landed here.
look, I am not trying to rub anybody's nose in anything.  the important thing is just to get away from here as fast as possible.
i can not lean on faust any harder -- he is been working non-stop on the engines.
if we knew exactly what happened to the beings on the other ship --
we do know that.
yeah?
they never made it off the planet. the parasites won.
where did the parasites come from?
they seem native to the planet.  it is got an atmosphere and a dense gravity.  it is dead now, but once it must have been fertile.
no.  it is just too small to support fauna as big as the parasites.  if there were a native ecology, it would have to be microscopic.
could not the pyramid have been built here by space travellers?
too primitive.  it is a pre- technological construction.  that slab was engineered by an iron-age culture at best.
they are from a dead civilization; they are spores from a tomb.  god knows how long they have been here.
hey, guess what?
what?
the engines are fixed.
take us up.
up one kilometer, jay.
engaged.
let's take her into an escape orbit.
this dust is getting clogged in the intakes again!
just hold us together till we are in space, that is all!
we made it!  damn, we made it!
you bet we made it.  martin, set course for irth and accelerate us into stardrive.
with great pleasure.
that is the part that always makes me feel like I am going to puke -- when we accelerate into light speed.
quit complaining; we are in space.
i think the best thing to do with broussard is to just freeze him as he is.  it will arrest the progress of his disease, and he can get complete medical attention when we get back to the colonies.
we will have to go into quarantine, maybe for quite a while.
that is okay, he can remain in hypersleep until they are ready to treat him.
how do you feel, dell?
wretched.  what happened to me?
do not you remember?
do not remember nothing.  can not hardly remember my name.
are you in pain?
not exactly, just feel like somebody is been beating me with rubber hoses for about six years.
hell, you are in great shape, you have got your sense of humor back!
god I am hungry.
dell, what is the last thing you can remember?
... i do not know...
do you remember the pyramid?
no.  just some horrible dreams about smothering.  where are we?
we are going home.  we are in hyperspace.
we are going into the freezers now.
I am really starving; can we get some food before we go into the freezers?
i think that is a pretty reasonable request.
boy do i feel a lot better.  it is a straight shot back to the colonies, and then we can start taking bids on the paydirt.  any bets on the top bid?
well, we should at least be able to each buy our own planet.
I am going to write a book about this expedition.  I am going to call it "the snark log."
the commander normally has first publication rights.
maybe we could write it together.
first thing I am going to do when we get back is eat some biological food.
what is the matter, you do not like this stuff?
tastes like something you would feed a chicken to make it lay more eggs.
oh it is okay.  I have had better cag than this, but I have had worse too, if you know what i mean.
i kind of like it.
you like this shit?
it grows on you.
you know what they make this stuff out of?
yes, i know what they make it out of, so what?  it is food now.  you're eating it.
i did not say it was bad for you, it is just kind of sickening, that is all.
what is wrong?
i do not know... I am getting these cramps!
breathe deeply.
oh god it hurts so bad!
oh, no.  oh, no.
what was that?  what the christ was that?
we can not go into hypersleep with that thing running around loose.
we would be sitting ducks in the freezers.
but we can not kill it.  if we kill it, it will spill all its body acids right through our hull and out into space.
shit...
we will have to catch it and eject it from the ship.
well, i kind of hate to point it out, but all our supplies are based on us spending a strictly limited amount of time out of suspended animation... and as you know, we used up most of that time in harvesting.
we have got about a week left, right?
and then we run out of food and oxygen.
the water will still recycle.
we will not need it then.
all right, so that is what we have got. a week.  it is plenty of time.
but if we haven't caught it in a week, then we have to go into the freezers anyway.
so does anybody have any suggestions?
we could put on our pressure suits and blow all the air out of the ship.  that would kill it.
no, we can not afford to lose that much oxygen.  we are going to have to flush it out.
how?
room by room, corridor by corridor.
and what do we do when we find it?
we will have to trap it somehow.  if we had a really strong piece of net, we could bag it.
we could cut a section out of that metallite netting.  it will not hold up to that acid, but aside from that it is pretty strong.
we have to avoid injuring it.  what we really need is some electric animal prods.
i think i could cobble something together.  a long metal rod with a battery in it.  give it a hell of a shock.
good.  get on it.  but first, I am issuing a standing order: from this moment forth, every one of us will wear protective garments, including helmets.  let's get down to the locker and change.
i thought I would find you here.
i was thinking of a line from an old poem: "water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink."  all that space out there, and we are trapped in this ship.
that is the one about the albatross, right?
we can not even radio for help; the carrier wave would not reach its destination till long after we would died and turned to dust.  we are utterly, absolutely alone.  can anybody really visualize such a scale of distances?  halfway across creation...
we came out there, we will go back.  a long time by the clock, but a short time to us.
time and space have no meaning out here.  we are living in einsteinian equation.
i can see you are putting your spare time to good use.  let me tell you something: you keep staring at hyperspace for long enough, they will be peeling you off a wall.  I have seen it happen.
we are the new pioneers, chaz.  we even have our own special diseases.
come on -- let's go above and see how they are coming with the gear.
might even incinerate the damn thing.
i hope not.
do not worry, it will not damage it, it will just give it a little incentive.
how do we locate the creature?
these will be very useful.  at least we will not have to go digging around in closets with our bare hands.  all right, here's the battle plan: we are going to break into two teams and start systematically covering the ship.  whoever finds it first, catches it in the net and ejects it from the nearest airlock.  clear?
even simple.
it is clear.
all right -- roby and melkonis will go with faust.  hunter and i will make up the second team.
where is it coming from?
machine's screwed up, i can not tell. needle's spinning all over the dial.
okay.
that way.
what happened to the lights?
bulbs burned out, nobody bothered to replace 'em.
yes!
we have got it up here!  it is trapped! get up here fast!
where are you?
food-storage room!
we are coming!
what is it doing, having a seizure?
it started crashing around right after we locked it in.
now what?
i guess we open the door and net it.
it looks completely different from the first one -- it is more like a worm with legs... and tentacles.
well we better do something.
maybe we do not have to.  it is trapped in there.  we could just leave it in there all the way back to irth.
do not be an idiot.
hey, wait a minute!  that is all our food supplies in there!  we can not pump poison gas all over them!
once we kill the thing we will not need the food any more -- we can go straight into hypersleep.  also, it sounds like that thing is already doing a pretty good job on our supplies; it may be fouling them all.
you win.
this stuff's deadly -- i hope we know what we are doing.
go ahead, jay.
now what?
what do you think?  now we go in.
where does that go?
all over the ship; we will have to check the charts to know for sure.
that one section of the ventilator shaft has only two outlets -- you notice?  the food storage room on one end --
-- and the cooling unit on the other.
so it is trapped in between -- now we have to drive it out.
poison gas...
we can not pump poison gas down into the cooling unit!  it will flood the whole ship!
the only other thing i can think of is for somebody to crawl in there and flush it out.
are you crazy?
the man would need protection, obviously -- as well as some way to drive the thing before him.
while the rest of us wait down in the cooling unit with the net.
sounds like a rough one.
got a better idea?
so the only question left is: who gets to crawl down the airshaft?
let's be democratic.
well, uh... good luck.  i hope you will not need me, but if you do, I am here.
right.
that is a flip-flop gate to channel the air, but we can use it to trap the thing.
right now let's keep it closed.
I have got hunter... and something else as well, in front of him.
are they close?
they are on the next level up.
let's get moving with this net.
they are getting pretty close now.
all right, then -- when it gets to the other side of the door, you sing out, then drop the door.  okay?
okay.
and you and i will bag it, and then we will take it to the ventral air lock, got it?
how did it get so big?
by eating our food supplies.
hey, are you guys still there? what is going on?
meet us on the bridge.  be careful -- it is huge now.
right.
you mean his body was still kicking when it ran off with him?
it was horrible -- horrible.  like a chicken.
what happened?  where is sandy?
dead.
dead!
it is monstrous -- it grew, like some horrible tapeworm.  we were completely unprepared.
it is still in the ship?
we would better seal off the lower maintenance level; at least trap it there.
at least it can not get up here now.
two down, four to go.
what is that supposed to mean?
nothing.
listen, it sure did not like this flamethrower.
that is right -- we can not kill it on the ship, but we can at least keep it at bay -- and maybe drive it into the air lock.
thing is, I am about out of fuel.
there is some more combustible fuel down in the storage lockers next to the lounge.  I will go get it.
no, i do not want us separated.
you just sealed it off; it can not get to that section.
do not count on it.
we sure need this flamethrower.
all right... but do not go below decks.
right.
and be right back.
can you make out any pattern in all that?
well... yes... there is a pattern... but it is meaningless to me.
i know it looks like a senseless jumble, but if you look closely, there are recognizable forms.
recognizable!  in that?
in symbolic form... very stylized... but if you stare at it, you can see some of the different creatures we have been dealing with.
well... i suppose that star-shaped thing could be the parasite that got on broussard.  is that what you mean?
and right next to it, that oval design with the markings -- it is a dead ringer for the spore casings.
that next thing there -- six legs, tentacles -- that is the thing we saw in the food locker.
so the next step should be --
this is all the same creature.  we are seeing the different stages in its life-cycle.
then that tomb... must have been some kind of fertility temple... where they stored their eggs, and maybe held mating rituals...
... and broussard got caught in their reproductive cycle.
you will notice, though, that there are no more phases.  only four forms are shown.  after that the pattern repeats.
which presumably means...
... more spores coming.
we have got six hours left.
oh my god.
does anybody know what happened?
i saw it.  faust got himself jammed in the air lock door.  his body held it open.
can we get to him?
no, i had to seal off a whole section.  we would lose too much of our remaining air if we opened the connecting door.
poor kitty; puss puss puss.
at least we are rid of the damn monster.  it must have been the first thing sucked out of the ship.
no such luck.  i saw it running down one of the corridors.
oh no!  we can not fight this thing! there is only six hours of air left -- we are dead men!
i do not buy that.  there is still time to destroy it and get ourselves in the freezers.
how?
it is time for drastic remedies.
it was time for that a couple days ago.
that kind of remark is pointless. now come on -- i want to hear every suggestion you can come up with, no matter how wild.
we can not kill it on board.  it is huge now and must have tremendous amounts of that acid in its body.
I have got an idea, but you are not going to like it.
let's hear it.
okay.  first we shut down all the cooling systems on the stardrive engines.
that will blow the ship up.
right... but it will take a few minutes for the engines to overheat and melt down the core.  in the meantime, we get in the lifeboat and leave the ship.
blow the ship up?
and the creature with it.  we can make it back to irth in the lifeboat.
but the lifeboat can not accelerate to light speed.
does not matter -- we are already at light speed.  and when we get back to the colonies, they will pick us up in the network.
what about all the minerals and elements in the cargo hold?  that is the only reason we came out here. we would have to abandon them all.  we would be broke.
our lives are more important. anyway, we can take a small amount of the most valuable stuff with us on the lifeboat.
no, it will not work and i just realized why.  there is only one hypersleep freezer on the lifeboat. only one of us could survive.
yeah... i forgot.
but the idea's good, if we could just turn it around somehow.
if we could just get the creature into the lifeboat, we could launch it into space and blow it up.
good!  that is good!
we can load the lifeboat up with explosives and trigger them remotely, once the lifeboat is in space.
i think it is going to be almost impossible to drive it up into the lifeboat.
we can use the flamethrower.
it is not going to work.
you can not say that; i think it is a good plan.
the flamethrower needs more fuel.
right.  we have got a lot to accomplish.  let's get moving.
you know, it is funny -- this stuff we went to so much trouble to dig up -- this treasure, the paydirt -- it will make it back to irth just fine -- even if we are not with it.
here, carry these.
hey watch it!
it is stable; it does not hurt to drop it.
so what do we do?  do we ignore it and finish loading the explosives into the boat -- or do we flush it out now?
now.  if we can get it into the boat, we will not have to blow it up -- we can just eject it into space.
the ship's gravitational attraction must have drawn him back.
should we go outside and bring him in?
no... the risk is too great.  perhaps after we have destroyed the thing.
this should do it.
i should hope so!  and we would better make sure it is pretty far from the ship when we blow it.
it will be.
what we really need is some red meat in here for bait.
well... now we have to herd that thing up here.
whoever's doing the herding is going to have their hands pretty full.  i think somebody should stay by the lifeboat to slam the door on the thing once it is inside, and to serve as... as...
is not "bait" the word you used?
hey look, somebody has to have his hands free to lock the creature in the lifeboat!
yes, and maybe launch the boat and blow it too... if the others are injured.
who gets the privilege?
just keep your finger off the button till she is way away from the ship, that is all.
is it armed?
if you press the button right now, it will blow the whole nose of the ship off.
thanks for the thought.
all right, martin, we will be in touch with you on the communicator.
and you will let me know when you have got it coming this way...
and you stand aside while we drive it in, then shut the hatch, launch the boat, and --
kablooey.
it must have stopped moving.  I am not getting anything.
let me go first; you stay behind me.
the flamethrower!
i can't, the acid will pour out!
kill me...
what did it do to you?
look...
that was melkonis... it ate hunter...
I will get you out of there.
no... don't...
but i can save you -- get you to the autodoc!
no good... it is eaten too much of me...
what can i do?
kill me...
computer!  I have turned all the cooling units back on!  what is wrong?
the reaction has proceeded too far. the core has begun to melt.  engines will overload in 2 minutes, 35 seconds.
