where is that cheery face we have come to know and love?
you call me in on my day off because some idiots have broken into local democratic headquarters--tell me, harry, why should i be smiling?
as usual, that keen mind of yours has pegged the situation perfectly.  except  it was not local democratic headquarters, it was national democratic headquarters--  --and  these were not just any idiots, these were special idiots, seeing as when they were arrested at 2:30 this morning, they were all wearing business suits and playtex gloves and were carrying--  --a walkie-talkie, forty rolls of film, cameras, lock picks, pen-sized tear gas guns, plus various bugging devices.  not to mention over two thousand dollars, mostly in sequenced hundred dollar bills.
preliminary hearing at superior courthouse?
two o'clock, work the phones 'til you go.
mr. caddy? my name's bob woodward, I am from the post and i wanted to ask about how you happened to come on this case--
--i'm not here.
ok.
douglas caddy, the attorney of record, when questioned about his presence in the courtroom, denied he was in the courtroom, "i'm not here," mr. caddy said.
clearly, i am here, but only as an individual, I am not the attorney of record.  mr. rafferty has that position. whatever you want, you will have to get from him, i have nothing more to say.
mr. rafferty was very helpful. four cuban-americans and this other man, james mccord.
look, i told you inside--
--you have nothing more to say, i understand that.
what i do not understand is how you got here.
i assure you, there is nothing mysterious involved.
probably you are right, but a little while ago, i was talking to a couple of lawyers who would been assigned to represent the burglars.
so?
well, they never would have been assigned if anyone had known the burglars had arranged for their own counsel. and that could only mean the burglars did not arrange for their own counsel--they never even made a phone call.  so if they did not ask for you to be here, how did you know to come?
did you know to come because one of the other men involved in the break- in called you?
there is no reason to assume other people were involved.
your clients were arrested with a walkie-talkie; they did not need that to talk among themselves.
they are not my clients.
you are a lawyer and you are here--
--i met one of the defendants, mr. barker, at a social occasion once--  --i have nothing more to say.
a miami social occasion?  mr. rafferty told me the cubans were from miami.
barker's wife called me at three this morning; her husband apparently had told her to call if he had not called her by then.
it was really nice of you to come, since you would only met him once.
are you implying you do not believe me?
i have nothing more to say.
you do not mind getting on people's nerves, do you?
your name, please.
james mccord.
will you step forward, sir.
and what is your occupation, mr. mccord?
security consultant.
where?
government. recently retired.
where in government?
...central... intelligence... agency...
where?
the c.i.a.
...go on, go on...
that is everything bachinski had, i think it is worth following up.
do not know; who the hell's howard hunt?  it is probably nothing but check it out. just go easy, it could be crazy cubans.
anything?
woodward's onto a new wrinkle with the break-in thing--absolute page one stuff--
--in other words, you got nothing, you are thumbsucking.
could develop.
let me see what you get, but do not jump--the new york times thinks it is crazy cubans.
ok, get on this w.house guy and do a better job then you did on mccord.
i did all right on mccord.
then how come the associated press were the ones found out that mr. mccord is security coordinator for the committee to re-elect the president, otherwise known as creep?
the head of security for the reelection of a republican president got caught bugging the national offices of the democrats? what the hell does that mean?
mr. john mitchell, the head of creep, says it means nothing.  "...this man and the other people involved were not operating on either our behalf or with our consent. these is no place in our campaign or in the electoral process for this type of activity, and we will not forget it or condone it."
you can not believe that.
as a rough rule of thumb, as far as i can throw bronco nagurski, that is how much i trust john mitchell...
what did you get on w.house?
lotsa hints--
i can not sell hints to simons--  --you called everyone you know?  call someone you do not know.
who is charles colson?
i would liken your query to being in russia half a century ago and asking someone, "i understand who lenin is and trotsky i got too, but who is this yokel stalin?"
who is colson, harry?
the most powerful man in america is president nixon, probably you have heard his name.
the second most powerful man is robert haldeman. just below him are a trio: mr. erlichman is haldeman's friend, and they protect the president from everybody which is why they are referred to as either the german shepherds or the berlin wall. mr. mitchell we have already discussed. mr. colson is the president's special counsel.
thanks, harry.  know anything about colson?
just that on his office wall there is a cartoon with a caption reading, "when you have got them by the balls, their hearts and minds will follow."
hello, I am bob woodward of the washing post and...  mullen and company public relations? could you tell me when you expect mr. hunt?  he is?
howard hunt here.
hi, I am bob woodward of the post and--
--yes, yes, what is it?
i was just kind of wondering why your name and phone number were in the address books of two of the men arrested at watergate?
good god!
whaddya got, whaddya got?
hunt is colson's man--  --that's charles colson, nixon's special counsel--  --they both went to brown university--  --hunt worked for the c.i.a. till '70, and this is on deep background, the fbi thinks he is involved with the break-in.
what else have you got?
according to white house personnel, hunt definitely works there as a consultant for colson. but when i called the white house press office, they said he had not worked there for three months. then the p.r. guy said the weirdest thing to me.  "i am convinced that neither mr. colson nor anyone else at the white house had any knowledge of, or participation in, this deplorable incident at the democratic national committee."
is not that what you would expect them to say?
absolutely.
so?
i never asked them about watergate. i only said what were hunt's duties at the white house. they volunteered that he was innocent when nobody asked was he guilty.
i think we got a white house consultant linked to the bugging.
what the hell were you doing rewriting my story--
--i sure could not hurt it, could i?--
--it was fine the way it was--
--it was bullshit the way it was--
--i have to stand here and listen to the staff correspondent from virginia?--
--what have you been here, nine months?--i been in this business since i was sixteen--
--and you have had some fucking meteoric rise, that is for sure--by the time you turn forty you might be the head of the montana bureau--
--you only got the job because both you and bradlee went to yale--
--bradlee went to harvard--
--they're all the same, all those ivy league places--they teach you about striped ties and suddenly you are smart--
--i'm smart enough to know my story was solid--
--mine's better--
--no way--
--read 'em both and you will see--
what is it about my writing that is so rotten?
mainly it has to do with your choice of words.
carl?
yeah?
fuck you, carl.
you heard?  they put us both on the break-in thing. simons liked the way we worked together.  listen, I am sorry i said your story was bullshit.
it is ok; I am sorry i called you a failure.
forget it, the main thing--  --did you call me a failure?
i was sure trying.
all right, what do we know?
let me lay a little theory on you--
--i'm not interested in theory. what do we know? for example, hunt's disappeared.
well, barker tried to get blueprints of the miami convention center and the air-conditioning system.
and mccord was carrying an application for college press credentials for the democratic convention.  the times has got to be full of it-- it can not be crazy cubans.
what, though?  it can not be the republicans--he'd never allow something as stupid as this, not when he is going to slaughter mcgovern anyway.
right. nixon did not get where he got by being dumb--  --listen, that was a watergate question--
hey?
hmm.
what do you think he meant, this particular incident? were there others? how would we find out? you know anyone important?
i lived here all my life, i got a million contacts, but they are all bus boys and bellhops.
sorry.  now if it was hunt you were interested in--
--howard hunt?
sure. him i liked, he was a very nice person. secretive too, traveled all over, but a decent man.
any idea what he did?
oh, the scuttlebutt for awhile was he was investigating kennedy--
--teddy kennedy?
sure. i remember seeing a book about chappaquiddick on his desk and he was always getting material out of the white house library and the library of congress and--
--what do you think?--
--hunt does not seem like your ordinary consultant.
maybe a political operative of some sort--
--a spy, you mean?
it makes sense; hunt worked for the c.i.a. and the white house was paranoid about teddy kennedy.
you think they are confidential? i do not know anything about how this town works, i have not lived here a year yet.
we need a sympathetic face.
july of '71.
about the past year.
that was fun.  what now?
i met a presidential aide once at a social occasion.
and you have not called him?--
i was told by this guy at the white house that hunt was investigating teddy kennedy.
how senior?
you asking me to disclose my source?
just tell me his title.
i do not know titles.
is he on the level of assistant to the president or not?
i saw the flag signal--what's up?
nothing, that is the problem--the story's gone underground.
you thought I would help out on specifics?  I will confirm what you get, try to keep you on the right track, but that is all.  are you guys really working?  how much?
i do not know maybe sixteen, eighteen hours a day--we've got sources at justice, the fbi, but it is still drying up.
then there must be something, must not there. look, forget the myths the media's created about the white house-- the truth is, these are not very bright guys, and things got out of hand.
if you do not like them, why will not you be more concrete with me?
because the press stinks too--history on the run, that is all you are interested in.  you come up with anything?
john mitchell resigned as head of creep to spend more time with his family. that does not exactly have the ring of truth.  howard hunt's been found--there was talk that his lawyer had 25 thousand in cash in a paper bag.
follow the money. always follow the money.
to where?
go on.
this man gordon liddy--he's going to be tried along with hunt and the five burglars--we know he knows a lot, we just do not know what.
you changed cabs? you are sure no one followed you?
i did everything you said, but it all seemed--
--melodramatic?  things are past that--remember, these are men with switchblade mentalities who run the world as if it were dodge city.
what is the whole thing about--do you know?
what i know, you will have to find out on your own.
liddy--you think there is a chance he will talk?
talk? once, at a gathering, he put his hand over a candle. and he kept it there. he kept it right in the flame until his flesh seared. a woman who was watching asked, "what's the trick?" and he replied. "the trick is not minding."
what is that?
the fucking new york times.
goddamnit--
--see?--
--i'm trying--
--fifteen phone calls--
---fifteen or more phone calls from the burglars in miami to gordon liddy at creep--
why did not we get that?
christ, and i even know somebody at the phone company--
--you do?--with access to records?
why could not you have just dialed me from the office, irwin?
'cause I am not calling out from the phone company anymore--  --i think the place is bugged.
so tell me about the times article.
what do you want to know?
no games, irwin; give.
my big civil rights buddy--  --boy, if john mitchell was after your phone records, would you be screaming.  what are you onto?
something maybe big.
and that makes anything you do ok, is that it?
just tell me about the goddamn article.
it was accurate, but i can not get a fuller listing for you--all barker's phone records have been subpoenaed.
who by?
a miami d.a. the guy doing the investigating is named martin dardis.
irwin? i really feel bad, doing something like this--you know that, do not you?
harry, i just talked to a miami investigator about barker--
--so?
i think it might be helpful if you would send me to miami.
I am the one sent you to toronto, bernstein--
--that was awhile ago--
--"i think it might be helpful if you would send me to toronto." that was your spiel then. "the lifestyles of deserters."  I am still waiting for it.
down to miami and back--how much damage can i do?
you are the fella who forgot he rented a hertz car, do i have to tell you they did not forget to send us the bill?
i can predict the next words you are going to say: "anyone but bernstein."  i want to send a reporter to miami.
anyone but bernstein.
howard--
--remember toronto, harry.
that was awhile ago.
i do not get it--you were the one who wanted to fire him.
i know, i did, but damnit howard--  for the first time since I have known him, i think he is really humping...
hannah, i never would have bothered you but I am off to miami and they are going to take away my ten speed unless i get it straightened out fast.
where are your bills, carl?
oh, they are here.  I am keeping much better records now, hannah.  see?
carl, it is a jungle.  i suggest you either pay this immediately or lay in a large supply of candles.  you would give a stranger the shirt off your back--except it would not be paid for.
hey... very tense.
lot of pressure at the star.  carl, when we got married, you were four thousand dollars in debt; when we split, you were solvent. that may prove to be the outstanding single achievement of my life, and now look at this.  how much did the damn bike cost?
five hundred; six maybe.
you are two months behind--you got enough to cover?
i think.
give me your checkbook then.
it is right under that pile.
i thought you had to get to miami.
there is always a later plane.
you are a sex junkie, you know that, carl?
nobody's perfect.  I am glad you are out of it, hannah-- you are a terrific reporter and i turned you into a bookkeeper.
hi, it is me. I am still here.
I am so glad.
I would really like to see mr. dardis.
and you will.  but not now.
i called him from washington. he is the one who asked me to be here at eleven in the morning.
i told you, he had to go out on a case.
could you reach mr. dardis by car radio?
he is not in the car.  sorry.
mr. dardis does call in every so often?
well of course.
good. just tell him i was here, that I am sorry i missed him--
look, you have been jerking my chain all day. if there is some reason you can not talk to me--like the fact that you have already leaked everything to the new york times--just say so.
listen, I have got a dinner--can't we do this tomorrow?
I am on deadline.
you want barker's phone stuff or his money stuff?
whatever.
I will never get out of here in time.
the telephone calls... we know about that.
the rest is barker's bank records. it is mostly the eighty-nine thousand in mexican cashier's checks--
--yeah, that was in the times this morning.
i never could figure just who this dahlberg was.  think it might be anything?
this?  naw...
--this should take only a minute, mr. dahlberg, but we are doing a follow- up on the break-in--  --and i was kind of curious about your check.
...check...?
the twenty-five thousand dollar one.  the one with your name on it.  in bernard barker's florida account.  bernard barker, the watergate burglar--
...you're definitely doing a story...?
yes, sir.
I am a proper citizen, I am a decent man, i do not do anything that is not decent or proper.  i know i should not tell you this...
that twenty-five thousand dollars is money i collected for nixon in this year's campaign.
i see. and how do you think it reached miami?
i do not know; i really don't. the last time i saw it was when i was in washington. i gave it to the finance department of the committee to re- elect the president. how it got to that burglar, your guess is as good as mine.
that checks out with our finding, thank you, mr. dahlberg.
--you are ignoring the importance of the dahlberg repercussions--
--nobody gives a shit about the dahlberg repercussions--
--quit equivocating, say what you mean--  --our story got government accounting to start an audit on creep's finances--
--correction--when you were drinking your lunch at the bar of the sans souci--
--this white house guy, a good one, a pro, came up and asked what is this watergate compulsion with you guys and i said, well, we think it is important and he said, if it is so goddamn important, who the hell are woodward and bernstein?
ask him what he is really saying--he means take the story away from woodstein and give it to his people at the national desk--
--well, I have got some pretty experienced fellas sitting around, would not you say so?--
--absolutely--and that is all they do, sit sit sit--every once in a while, they call up a senator, some reporting--
--well, what if your boys get it wrong--
then it is our asses, is not it?
and we will all have to go to work for a living.
i do not think either metropolitan or national should cover the story.  i do not think we should cover the story, period.
go on.
it is not that we are using unnamed sources that bothers me, or that everything we print the white house denies, or that almost no other papers are reprinting our stuff.
it will, it just has not bottomed out yet, give it time.
ben, jesus, there are over two thousand reporters in this town, are there five on watergate? where did we suddenly get all this wisdom?
look--why would the republicans do it? --my god, mcgovern is self- destructing before our eyes--just like muskie did, humphrey, the bunch of 'em.  why would the burglars have put the tape around the door instead of up and down unless they wanted to get caught? why did they take a walkie- talkie and then turn it off, unless they wanted to get caught? why would they use mccord--the only direct contact to the republicans?
you saying the democrats bugged themselves?
the fbi thinks it is possible--the democrats need a campaign issue, corruption's always a good one.  get off the story, ben--or put some people on mcgovern's finances; fair is fair, even in our business.
this is practically a high school reunion for us, jane--i would have sprung for a classier place.
anyplace really public, they would know about it--they know everything at the committee, carl--
--you do not really think you are being followed?
this girlfriend of mine at the committee, the other day she went back to the d.a. to tell the things the fbi did not ask her. that night, her boss, he knew what she would done. they control everything; that is how they know it all.
fbi too?
you do not believe me? well, i was working the weekend of the break-in and my god, all the executives were running around like crazy--you had to practically wait in line to use the shredding machine--and when the fbi came to investigate, they never even asked me about it.
if you do not like it down there, why do not you quit?
i do not know what they would do to me.
hey, easy...
we are a long way from high school, carl...  ...and I am scared.
see her?  get anything?
for the paper, no; for us, plenty.  i waited a long time and finally this big guy--i guess a bodyguard-- he left and i knocked and she remembered me, we talked awhile.
and?--and?--
--she was panicked, carl--every time i mentioned watergate, you could tell.
were you eyebrow reading?
it was there. i just do not get it; a creep secretary being scared, that is one thing. but what does the wife of one of the most powerful men in america have to be afraid of...?
who is first?
alphabetically, on the creep phone list, miss helen abbott of south george street.
i do not get it... this really was my turf...
you are not a kid anymore.
my first day as a copy boy i was sixteen and wearing my only grown-up suit--it was cream colored. at 2:30 the head copy boy comes running up to me and says, "my god, have not you washed the carbon paper yet? if it is not washed by three, it will never by dry for tomorrow."  and i said, "am i supposed to do that?" and he said, "absolutely, it is crucial." so i run around and grab all the carbon paper from all the desks and take it to the men's room. I am standing there washing it and it is splashing all over me and the editor comes in to take a leak, and he says, "what the fuck do you think you are doing?" and i said, "it's 2:30. I am washing the carbon paper."  just wanted you to know I have done dumber things than get us lost, that is all.
hi. I am bob woodward of the washington post and i hate to bother you at home--
--i already get the post. i do not need another subscription.
no, I am a reporter. i wanted to talk to you about the committee to re- elect.
the what to what?
you work there, miss abbott.
I am not miss abbott.
this is terrific work, if you like rejection.
i never scared anyone before.
it is not us, they were scared before we got there.  what do we know?
facts or theory?
anything you have got.
we know there is got to be something or they would not be so panicked.
and that something is got to be more than just hunt, liddy, and the five burglars--those indictments are going to be bullshit when they come down. what else do we know?
i just wish we knew when someone would talk to us, that is all.
we never reveal our sources, which is why you can talk to us.
it is safe, try it, you will see.
we understand your problem--
--you believe in the president, you would not ever want to do anything disloyal.
we appreciate your position--really.
i hate both parties.
and I am a republican.
republican?
sure.
who would you vote for?
when?
'68.
nixon.
did he just say what i think he said?
you voted for him.
you have really got to go.
just let me get a match.
but i want you to know that i understand why you are afraid--a lot of good people down there at the committee are afraid. I am really sorry for what you are being put through.
all those articles you people write-- where do you find that stuff?
we do not tell anyone that. which is why you can talk to us. and if we can not verify what you say someplace else, we do not print it. that is another reason you can relax.
I am relaxed--light your cigarette.
you were hugh sloan's bookkeeper when he worked for maurice stans at finance, and we were sort of wondering, did you go work for stans immediately after sloan quit or was there a time lapse?
i never worked for sloan or stans.
one minute but then--
--right, right, I have got to go.  why did you lie just then?
i was just curious--you do not do it well, so i wondered. have you been threatened, if you told the truth, is that it?
...no... never in so many words...
it is obvious you want to talk to someone--well, I am someone.
there are too many people watching me--they know i know a lot--
--it was all in hundreds, was not it?
a lot of it was. i just thought it was sort of an all-purpose political fund--you know, for taking fat cats to dinner, things like that.
could buy a lot of steaks, 350,000 dollars.
i can not be positive that it was used for the break-in but people sure are worried.
which people?
the ones who could disburse the money.
who were they?
there were a group of them--i think five, i do not know their names.
sloan knew which five, did not he?
it is awfully hot--  --and you have not finished telling me about the money--
--omigod, there was so much of it, six million came in one two-day period-- six million cash, we could not find enough places to put it. i thought it was all legal, i guess i did, til after the break-in, when i remembered gordon got so much of it.
gordon liddy, you mean?
it was all so crazy--the day after the break-in he gave us a speech, bouncing up and down on his heels in that loony way of his--gordon told us not to let jim mccord ruin everything--don't let one bad apple spoil the barrel, he said. you just know that when gordon liddy's calling someone a bad apple, something is wrong somewhere.  ...it's all so rotten... and getting worse... and all i care about is hugh sloan. his wife was going to leave him if he did not stand up and do what was right. and he quit. he quit because he saw it and did not want any part of it.
think sloan's being set up as a fall guy for john mitchell? sometimes it looks that way.
i  could not believe what she told me. eight cups of coffee worth.
go on, go on--
--we've got to find out who the five guys are--the five with access to the slush fund--they were aware of the break-in.
then tomorrow's grand jury indictments will just be bullshit.
it goes very high--we've got to find out where--
--we will--
--she was really paranoid, the bookkeeper.
that happens to people.  ok, go on.
how do you want to handle sloan?
you mean, who is going to play the mean m.p. and who is going to be the nice one?  whichever.
he is another ivy leaguer so he will probably expect you to be understanding--might surprise him if you are not.
you want me to be the bastard.
and I will just shitkick in my usual way.
think sloan's back?  what is wrong?
nothing--i just found out that jeb magruder from creep is a bigger bike freak than i am.  i never like it when the other guy's human...
mr. sloan?
my wife told me to expect you.  as you know, i have not talked to the press.
I would like to talk to you, i really would, but my lawyers say i should not until after the watergate trial.
you handed out the money. maybe there is a legitimate explanation for the way it was done--
--then again, maybe things are even worse than we have written--
--they're worse. that is why i quit.
try and understand this. I am a decent republican. i believe in richard nixon. i worked in the white house four years--so did my wife. what happened on june 17 i do not think the president knew anything about. some of his men I am not so sure of.
do you think the truth will come out at the trial?
that is another of the things I am not so sure of.
because people at the committee were told to lie to the prosecutors?
we were never told flat out "don't talk." but the message was clear.
to cover up?
well, they sure did not ask us to come forward and tell the truth.
does "they" mean the white house?
as opposed to the committee? the committee's not an independent operation. everything is cleared with the white house. i do not think that the fbi or the prosecutors understand that.
the report on the cash in maurice stans' safe, the three hundred fifty thousand, that is true?
no. it was closer to seven hundred thousand.
and as treasurer, you could release those funds?
when so ordered.
we are not sure we have got all the guys who could order you, but we know there were five.
--there had to be a white house overseer--
--colson.
colson's too smart to get directly involved with something like that.
haldeman.  right?
i will not talk about the other two.
but they both worked at the white house?
i will not talk about the other two.
kalmbach--nixon's personal lawyer.
i can not say anything, I am sorry.
one thing I am not completely clear on--when you gave out the money to liddy, how did that work?
badly.  you do not realize how close all this came to staying undiscovered--i gave liddy the dahlberg check and he gave it to barker who took it to miami and deposited it.
right.
then barker withdrew the 25 thousand in hundred dollar bills and gave it back to liddy who gave it back to me and i put it in the office safe which was crammed.
go on.
well, when liddy came and asked for money for what turned out to be the break-in funds, i went to the safe and gave him--out of this whole fortune--i happened to give him the same hundreds he gave me--banks have to keep track of hundreds. if the money had been in fifties, or if I would grabbed a different stack, there probably would not have been any watergate story.
ordinarily, though, what was the procedure?
routine--i'd just call john mitchell over at the justice department and he would say "go ahead, give out the money."
what happens when the baby comes?
we are moving.  I have been looking for a job but it is been... hard. my name's been in the papers too much. sometimes i wonder if reporters understand how much pain they can inflict in just one sentence. I am not thinking of myself. but my wife, my parents, it is been very rough on them.
look--five men controlled that slush fund as creep--three of them we have got, mitchell, stans, magruder, and we are pretty sure of kalmbach.
we would like to wait til we have all five before we print it.
this is a daily paper, we will explain it tomorrow.  you are certain on mitchell?
he approved the payments to liddy while he was still attorney general--
--you got more than one source?--
--yes--
--has any of them got an ax?--
--political, personal, sexual, anything at all against mitchell?--
--no--
--can we use their names?--
--no--
--goddamnit, when is somebody going to go on the record on this story--
--who you got?--
--well, sloan--
--and we got a guy in justice--
--deep throat?--
--i saw him. he verifies.
ok.  you are about to write a story that says that the former attorney general-- the man who represented law in america-- is a crook.  just be right, huh?
what does it say?
john n. mitchell, while serving as us attorney general, personally controlled a secret cash fund that--
--jeeeeeeesus--
--fund that was used to gather information against the democrats--
--jeeeeeeesus--
--according to sources involved in the watergate investigation. beginning in the spring of 1971--
--jeeeeeeesus--
--almost a year before he left the justice department--
--jeeeeeeeeesus--
--to become president nixon's campaign manager on march 1, mitchell personally approved withdrawals from the fund--
--all that crap, you are putting it in the paper? it is all been denied. you tell your publisher--tell katie graham she is going to get her tit caught in a big fat wringer if that is published. good christ! that is the most sickening thing i ever heard.
sir, I would like to ask you a few--
--what time is it?
11:30.
morning or night?
night.
oh.
same kind of crap--
--all non-denial denials--we're dirty guys and they doubt we were ever virgins but they do not say the story is inaccurate.
what is a real denial?
if they ever start calling us goddamn liars--  --it's time to start circling the wagons.
what do you think mrs. graham wants to see me for?
maybe to fire you--since you two started on this story, the post stock has dropped, what, 50 percent?  and the word is some nixon people are challenging her tv licenses. I am not saying she is going on relief, but i do not think it is unreasonable for her to want to meet you.
you think she wants us to ease up on the story?
i do not know, but i do not think that is unreasonable either, do you?
I am so glad you could come, mr.--
--i'm woodward.
you know, the paper was my father's and my husband's when they were alive and i was thinking back a year or two ago when ben called me and said he wanted to publish the pentagon papers the next day. the times had already been stopped from publishing anymore of them and all my legal counsel said "don't, don't" and i was frightened but i knew if i said no, I would lose the whole fifth floor. so we published, and that night, after I would told ben to go ahead, i woke up in the darkness and i thought, "oh my lord, what am i doing to this newspaper?"  i woke up again last night with that same question.  are we right on this story?
i think so.
are you sure?
no.
when will you be, do you think?-- when are we going to know it all?
it may never come out.
never? please do not tell me never.  ben says you have found some wonderful sources.
some justice department lawyers and an fbi man, and some people from the committee to re-elect, yes ma'am.
and the underground garage one.  would i know him?
i could not say.
but it is possible.
it is.
you have never told anyone who he is?  but you would have to tell me if i asked you.  tell me.
i would, if you really ever wanted to know.
i really want to know.
we are going to need lots of good luck, are not we?
nobody ever had too much.
i thought you guys were supposed to be working on this story--  --you think i like being aced out?
--what?--
--the l.a. times has a huge interview with baldwin--
--the lookout in the motor inn?--  --he say anything we do not know?--
--just that a lot of reports were sent to creep, but he does not name who, not here anyway--
--it would have been nice to have had this, i sure would have liked to have had this--
--there's nothing new in it--
--it makes the break-in real--it's a major goddamn story--  --i'm not going to kick ass over this, but I would like you to know i hate getting beat, i just hate it-- do not forget that i hate it--
goddamnit--
--shit--
--we gotta top the times--
--i know, i know--
--if we could name the guys got the reports, we would be ahead again--
--shit, who do we know?--
--i know a lawyer at justice--
--has he got an ax?--
--almost every source we have used has been republican, this guy's a card- carrying democrat.
then he is got an ax.  call him anyway.
--i want you to shut up and listen to me--
--i have not said anything--
--for the first time I am beginning to feel like a fucking reporter-- woodward, i got a tip. a guy called me up with a tip--  --someone named donald segretti contacted a bunch of lawyers and asked them if they would like to go to work with him screwing up the democrats, dirty tricks, shit like that. the fbi knows about segretti-- howard hunt made a bunch of phone calls to him--they interrogated him, but on account of segretti was not involved with the break-in, they did not follow through. but segretti did a lot of traveling--he called these lawyers from different places, and he told them the republicans knew what he was doing.
how high up, which republicans?
that is what we have got to find out, but segretti went to southern cal. and so did a bunch of nixon men--
--haldeman i know, who else?
dwight chapin, nixon's appointments chief--he knew segretti in school. maybe I am crazy, but this is the first time any of this starts to make sense. what were the three theories?
the burglary was done by cubans or democrats or republicans.
now the reason no one believed the republicans is because there was not any reason, they were so far ahead. but segretti was talking to these other lawyers a year before the break- in.
so maybe watergate was not really about watergate--maybe that was just a piece--
--because a year before, the republicans were not ahead, not in the polls, muskie was running ahead of nixon then. before he self- destructed.
if he self-destructed.
segretti criss-crossed the country over ten times in six months--and never stayed anyplace over a night or two.  switch to another station, huh? you are driving me crazy with that.
segovia begged me for me secret but i said, "no, andres, you will have to try and make it without me."
california, illinois, florida, new hampshire--all the major democratic primary states.  why does everything you play sound the same?
--'cause i only know four chords--
donald segretti?
that is right.
I am carl bernstein.  my paper sent me out to see if i could not persuade you to go on the record.
you can't.
mind if i try?
according to what we have been able to verify, you have been busy.
I have got a lot of energy.
listen--we know you are involved in this--we're going to get the story, why not help?
they never told me anything except my own role--i had to find out the rest in the papers.
by "they" you mean...?
by "they" you mean the white house, do not you?  your buddy from usc, dwight chapin-- he works for the white house.
i know where dwight works.
when did he hire you?
do you feel much about the things you did?
i did not do anything wrong.
tell that to muskie.
oh, maybe nickel and dime stuff.
during the florida primary, you wrote a letter on muskie stationery saying scoop jackson had a bastard child. you wrote another that said hubert humphrey was out with call girls.
sometimes it got up to a quarter maybe--  --off the record.
you wrote the canuck letter--the one where you claimed muskie slurred the canadians.
i didn't.
but you know who did.
when you guys print it in the paper, then I will know.  I am a lawyer, and I will probably go to jail, and be disbarred, and what did i do that was so awful?
none of it was my idea, carl--i did not go looking for the job.
chapin did contact you then?
sure--off the record.
on the orders of haldeman?
i do not know anything about haldeman, except, dwight's frightened of him-- everybody's frightened of him--christ, i wish I would never gotten messed around with this--all i wanna do is sit in the sun; sit, swim, see some girls.
it gets interesting if it was haldeman, because our word is that when chapin says something, he is gotten the ok from haldeman, and when haldeman says something, he is gotten the ok from the president.
can not help you.
at usc, you had a word the this-- screwing up the opposition you all did it at college and called it ratfucking.  ever wonder if nixon might turn out to be the biggest ratfucker of them all?
what would you have done?
you asking would i have been one of the president's men?  i would have been.
my turn to keep you waiting.  what is the topic for tonight?
ratfucking.
in my day, it was simply called the double cross. i believe the cia refers to it as mindfuck. in our context, it simply means infiltration of the democrats.
i know what it means--segretti would not go on the record, but if he would, we know he would implicate chapin. and that would put us inside the white house.
yes, the little ratfuckers are now running our government.
who?--be specific. how high up?
you will have to find that out, will not you.
the slush fund at creep financed the ratfucking, we have almost got that nailed down, so--
what?
did you change cabs?  it did not work, something moved there--
i hope you noticed how coolly i behaved under the threat of discovery.
do justice and the fbi know what we know, and why the hell have not they done anything about it?
they know, but they focused on the burglary--if it did not deal with the break-in, they did not pursue it.
why did not they?--who told them not to?
someone with authority I would imagine, would not you?  do not you know what you are onto? come on.
mitchell knew then.
of course--my god, you think something this big just happens? the break-in and the cover up, of course mitchell knew, but no more than ehrlichman.
haldeman too?
you get nothing from me about haldeman?
why did they do all this for chrissakes?--what were they after?
total manipulation. i suppose you could say they wanted to subvert the constitution, but they do not think along philosophical lines.
talk about segretti--
--don't concentrate on segretti or you will miss the overall scheme too.
there were more then.
follow every lead--every lead goes somewhere--
--the canuck letter--was that a white house operation--
--don't you miss the grand scheme too.
how grand?
nationwide--my god, they were frightened of muskie and look who got destroyed--they wanted to run against mcgovern, and look who they are running against. they bugged, they followed people, false press leaks, fake letters, they canceled democratic campaign rallies, they investigated democratic private lives, they planted spies, stole documents, on and on-- do not tell me you think this was all the work of little don segretti.
and justice and fbi know all this?
yes, yes, everything. there were over fifty people employed by the white house and creep to ratfuck-- some of what they did is beyond belief.
fifty ratfuckers directed by the white house to destroy the democrats?
i was being cautious.  you can safely say more then fifty...
you think we are being set up?--christ, deep throat tells you last night that the letter came from inside the white house and up traipses marilyn naming names.
it makes a crazy kind of sense-- remember that initiation rite they have at the white house? each new member of the president's staff has to prove his guts by getting an enemy of nixon.
you think this was clawsen's initiation?
could have won him a fraternity paddle with a white house seal.  god knows it worked.
you claiming it was all a misunderstanding, ken?
absolutely--marilyn's gotten it totally wrong--
she is an awfully good reporter--i can not remember her getting too much wrong before, can you?
that is a bullshit question, that is a question straight out of wichita, kansas.
sorry, ken; listen, one last thing: where did your talk with berger happen?
where?  what do you mean, where?
well, was it in a bar, her apartment, some restaurant--
--i've completely forgotten where it was, except i know it was not her apartment.
i got clawsen on hold--
--his dialing finger must be falling off--
--what do you think?--
--he went to her apartment and he told her--
--if he did it or just said he did it, god knows.
i could care less about where it happened; what happened is what counts.  put him on.  ken, I am sorry, it was goddamn beirut and they were having a crisis, what is up, kid?  slow down, ken, you sound frazzled.  a wife and a family and a cat and a dog, right, ken.  ken, i would never print that you were in marilyn's apartment at night-- unless, of course, you force me to.
speak.
we have just been talking to young--
--which young?
larry young, a california lawyer--
--he was going to go into law practice with segretti.
and?--
--and he says chapin hired segretti--
--well and good, but when will he say it on the record.
he just did.
he will give us a sworn statement.
we are inside the white house now.
i really can not talk now--
--this'll only take one second--
--my wife just had the baby, my in- laws are arriving, I am trying to get the house in some kind of shape.
a boy or a girl?
a girl. melissa.
--that cash fund that financed the sabotaging of the democrats--five guys had control--
--mitchell, stans, magruder, kalmbach--
--we're working on the last guy now and we are going all the way--that fifth man was haldeman.
--i'm not your source on that--
--it's got to be haldeman--someone from the white house had to be involved--
--and it was not ehrlichman or colson or the president.
no, none of those.
--that leaves haldeman, period.
I am not your source on that.
--look, when the watergate grand jury questioned you, did you name names?
of course--everything they asked--
--if we wrote a story that said haldeman controlled the fund?--
--let me put it this way: I would have no problem if you did.
i think that is him.
who?
haldeman.
nah.  maybe.
what if i went up and introduced myself--think he would slug me?
well, we are trying to ruin his life.
it is nothing personal, though.
what is the matter?
same as magruder, i do not like it when they turn out to be human.
i wish we were investigating attila the hun.
maybe we are...
--jesus--
--he said john haldeman, not bob haldeman--
--i do not know, i do not know, it feels thin--
--christ, i wish i knew if we should print this--
--listen, we did not make them do these things--once they did, it is our job to report it--
--go over your sources again--
--sloan told the grand jury--he answered everything they asked him-- that means there is a record somewhere--
--and the fbi confirms--what more do you need?--
--listen, i love this country, you think i want to bring it down?--i'm not some goddamn zany, i was a hawk--
--harry, were not you just arguing the opposite way?--
--maybe I am tense--
--well shit, we oughtta be tense-- we are about to accuse mr. haldeman who only happens to be the second most important man in america of conducting a criminal conspiracy from inside the white house--  --it would be nice if we were right--
--you double-checked both sources?--
--bernstein, are you sure on this story?
absolutely--
--what about you?--
--i'm sure--
--i'm not sure, it still feels thin--
how many fucking sources they think we got?--
--deep throat will not confirm--i never thought he was scared of anyone, but he is scared of haldeman.
i know a guy in the justice department who was around the grand jury.
--we got twenty minutes to deadline--
woodward?
hmm?
what was the mistake? do you think it is been rigged, all along the way, leading us on so they could slip it to us when it mattered? they could not have set us up better; after all these months our credibility's gone, you know what that means?
only everything...
more denunciations?
one senator just gave a speech slurring us 57 times in 20 minutes.
what is this?
my non-denial denial.
you overslept?
goddamnit!--
--i know, i know, the pressure's off the white house and it is all back on the post--
--you've done worse than let haldeman slip away, you have got people feeling sorry for him--i did not think that was possible. a conspiracy like this-- the rope has to tighten slowly around everyone's neck. you build from the outer edges and you go step by step. if you shoot too high and miss, then everybody feels more secure. you have put the investigation back months.
we know that--and if we were wrong, we are resigning--were we wrong?
you will have to find that out, will not you?--
we can not talk inside either?
electronic surveillance.
i finally got through to sloan--it was all a misunderstanding that we had: he would have told the grand jury about haldeman, he was ready to, only nobody on the grand jury asked him the goddamn question.
so i guess you could say that we screwed up, but we were not wrong.
anything else from mr. throat?
mitchell started the cover-up early, everyone is involved in the cover- up, all the way to the top. the whole u.s. intelligence community is mixed in with the covert activities. the extent of it is incredible.  and people's lives are in danger, maybe including ours.
