so there you are. it seemed odd, suddenly, your not being there...
why should you think i would not be?
why should you be? after all, six nights a week - for weeks - of watching even margo channing enter and leave a theater-
i hope you do not mind my speaking to you...
not at all.
I have seen you so often - it took every bit of courage i could raise-
to speak to just a playwright's wife? I am the lowest form of celebrity...
you are margo channing's best friend. you and your husband are always with her - and mr. sampson... what is he like?
bill sampson? he is - he is a director.
he is the best.
he will agree with you. tell me, what do you between the time margo goes in and comes out? just huddle in that doorway and wait?
oh, no. i see the play.
you see the play? you have seen the play every performance?  but, do not you find it - i mean apart from everything else - do not you find it expensive?
standing room does not cost much. i manage.
I am going to take you to margo...
oh, no...
she is got to meet you-
no, I would be imposing on her, I would be just another tongue-tied gushing fan...
there is not another like you, there could not be-
but if I would known... maybe some other time... i mean, looking like this.
you look just fine...  ... by the way. what is your name?
eve. eve harrington.
hi.  hello, darling-
hi.  "well, now mis' channin', ah do not think you can rightly say we lost the wah, we was mo' stahved out, you might say - an' that is what ah don' unnerstand about all these plays about love-stahved suth'n women - love is one thing we was nevah stahved for the south!"
how was the concert?
loud.
lemme fix you a drink.
no thanks, birdie.
it was fort sumter they fired on-
i never played fort sumter.
honey chili had a point. you know, i can remember plays about women - even from the south - where it never even occurred to them whether they wanted to marry their fathers more than their brothers...
that was way back...
within your time, buster. lloyd, honey, be a playwright with guts. write me one about a nice, normal woman who shoots her husband.
you need new girdles.
buy some.
the same size?
of course!
well. i guess a real tight girdle help when you are playin' a lunatic.
margo does not play a lunatic, birdie.
i know. she just keeps hearin' her dead father play the banjo.
it is the tight girdle that does it.
i find these wisecracks increasingly less funny! 'aged in wood' happens to be a fine and distinguished play-
- 'at's my loyal little woman.
the critics thought so, the audiences certainly think so - packed houses, tickets for months in advance - i can not see that either of lloyd's last two plays have hurt you any!
easy, now...
relax, kid. it is only me and my big mouth...
it is just that you get me so mad sometimes... of all the women in the world with nothing to complain about-
am not it the truth?
yes, it is! you are talented, famous, wealthy - people waiting around night after night just to see you, even in the wind and rain...
autograph fiends! they are not people - those little beast who run in packs like coyotes-
they are your fans, your audience-
they are nobody's fans! they are juvenile delinquents, mental detectives, they are nobody's audience, they never see a play or a movie, even - they are never indoors long enough!
well... there is one indoors now. I have brought her back to see you.
you have what?
she is just outside the door.
the heave-ho.
you can not put her out, i promised... margo, you have got to see her, she worships you, it is like something out of a book-
that book is out of print, karen, those days are gone. fans no longer pull the carriage through the streets - they tear off clothes and steal wrist watches...
if you would only see her, you are her whole life - you must have spotted her by now, she is always there...
i thought you would forgotten about me.
not at all.  margo, this is eve harrington.
how do you do, my dear.
oh, brother.
hello, miss channing.
my husband...
hello, miss harrington.
how do you do, mr. richards.
and this is my good friend and companion, miss birdie coonan.
oh, brother.
miss coonan...
I am sure you must have things to do in the bathroom, birdie dear.
if i haven't, I will find something till you are normal.
dear birdie. will not you sit down, miss worthington?
harrington.
I am so sorry... harrington. will not you sit down?
would you like a drink? it is right beside you...
i was telling margo and lloyd about how often you would seen the play...
no, thank you.  yes. I have seen every performance.
every performance? then - am i safe in assuming you like it?
I would like anything miss channing played...
would you, really? how sweet-
i doubt very much that you would like her in 'the hairy ape'.
please, do not misunderstand me, mr. richards. i think that part of miss channing's greatness lies in her ability to choose the best plays... your new play is for miss channing, is not it, mr. richards?
of course it is.
how did hear about it?
there was an item in the times. i like the title. 'footsteps on the ceiling'.
let's get back to this one. have you really seen every performance?  why? I am curious...
well. if i did not come to see the play, i would not have anywhere else to go.
there are other plays...
not with you in them. not by mr. richards...
if i only knew how...
try...
well...
well... it started with the play before this one...
'remembrance'.
did you see it here in new york?
san francisco. it was the last week. i went one night... the most important night in my life - until this one. anyway... i found myself going the next night - and the next and the next. every performance. then, when the show went east - i went east.
eve... why do not you start at the beginning?
it could not possibly interest you.
i guess it started back home. wisconsin, that is. there was just mum, and dad - and me. i was the only child, and i made believe a lot when i was a kid - i acted out all sorts of things... what they were is not important. but somehow acting and make-believe began to fill up my life more and more, it got so that i could not tell the real from the unreal except that the unreal seemed more real to me... I am talking a lot of gibberish, are not i?
not at all...
farmers were poor in those days, that is what dad was - a farmer. i had to help out. so i quit school and i went to milwaukee. i became a secretary. in a brewery.  when you are a secretary in a brewery - it is pretty hard to make believe you are anything else. everything is beer. it was not much fun, but it helped at home -  and there was a little theater group... like a drop of rain in the desert. that is where i met eddie. he was a radio technician. we played 'liliom' for three performances, i was awful - then the war came, and we got married. eddie was in the air force - and they sent him to the south pacific. you were with the o.w.i., were not you mr. richards?  that is what 'who's who' says... well, with eddie gone, my life went back to beer. except for a letter a week. one week eddie wrote he had a leave coming up. I would saved my money and vacation time. i went to san francisco to meet him.  eddie was not there. they forwarded the telegram from milwaukee - the one that came from washington to say that eddie was not coming at all. that eddie was dead...  ... so i figured I would stay in san francisco. i was alone, but could not go back without eddie. i found a job. and his insurance helped... and there were theaters in san francisco. and one night margo channing came to play in 'remembrance'... and i went to see it. and - well - here i am...
there are some human experiences, birdie, that do not take place in a vaudeville house - and that even a fifth-rate vaudevillian should understand and respect!  i want to apologize for birdie's-
you do not have to apologize for me!  I am sorry if i hurt your feelings. it is just my way of talkin'...
forty-five minutes from now my plane takes off and how do i find you? not ready yet, looking like a junk yard-
thank you so much.
is it sabotage, does my career mean nothing to you? have you no human consideration?
show me a human and i might have!
bill...
the air lines have clocks, even if you haven't! i start shooting a week from monday - zanuck is impatient, he wants me, he needs me!
bill-
only in some ways. you are prettier...
I am a junk yard.
bill!
huh?
this is eve harrington.
hi.  my wonderful junk yard. the mystery and dreams you find in a junk yard-
heaven help me, i love a psychotic.
hello, what is your name?
eve. eve harrington.
you have already met.
where?
right here. a minute ago.
that is nice.
she, too, is a great admirer of yours.
imagine. all this admiration in just one room.
you are not going, are you?
i think I would better. it is been - well, i can hardly find the words to say how it is been...
no, do not go...
the four of you must have so much to say to each other - with mr. sampson leaving...
stick around. please. tell you what - we will put stanislavsky on his plane, you and i, then go somewhere and talk.
well - if I am not in the way...
i will not be a minute.
good luck, genius...
geniuses do not need good luck.  i do.
good night, eve. i hope i see you again soon-
I will be at the old stand, tomorrow matinee-
not just that way. as a friend...
I would like that.
it is been a real pleasure, eve.
i hope so, mr. richards. good night...
you said forty-seven minutes. you will never make it.
i told you a lie. we will make it easily. margo's got no more conception of time than a halibut.
why?
i just wondered.
just wondered what?
why.
why what?
why you have to go out there.
i do not have to. i want to.
is it the money?
eighty percent of it will go for taxes.
then why? why, if you are the best and most successful young director in the theater-
the theatuh, the theatuh-  - what book of rules says the theater exists only within some ugly buildings crowded into one square mile of new york city? or london, paris or vienna?  listen, junior. and learn. want to know what the theater is? a flea circus. also opera. also rodeos, carnivals, ballets, indian tribal dances, punch and judy, a one-man band - all theater. wherever there is magic and make-believe and an audience - there is theater. donald duck, ibsen, and the lone ranger, sarah bernhardt, poodles hanneford, lunt and fontanne, betty grable, rex and wild, and eleanora duse. you do not understand them all, you do not like them all, why should you? the theater's for everybody - you included, but not exclusively - so do not approve or disapprove. it may not be your theater, but it is theater of somebody, somewhere.
i just asked a simple question.
and i shot my mouth off. nothing personal, junior, no offense...  ... it is just that there is so much bushwah in this ivory green room they call the theatuh - sometimes it gets up around my chin...
but hollywood. you must not stay there.
it is only one picture deal.
so few come back...
yeah. they keep you under drugs out there with armed guards...
i read george jean nathan every week.
also addison dewitt.
every day.
you did not have to tell me.
oh well...  ... look through the wigs, maybe it got caught-
real diamonds in a wig. the world we live in...
where is my coat?
can not keep his eyes off my legs.
like a nylon lemon peel-
byron could not have said it more graciously... here we go-
kill the people.  got your key?
see you home...
ah...
i have a suggestion.  there is really not much time left - i mean, you have not had a minute alone yet, and - well, i could take care of everything here and meet you at the gate with the ticket... if you would like.
i think we would like very much. sure you will not mind?
of course not.
she is quite a girl, that what's-her name...
eve. I would forgotten they grew that way...
the lack of pretense, that sort of strange directness and understanding-
did she tell you about the theater and what it meant?
i told her. i sounded off.
all the religions in the world rolled into one, and we are gods and goddesses... is not it silly, suddenly I have developed a big protective feeling for her - a lamb loose in our big stone jungle...
take care of yourself out there...
i understand they have got the indians pretty well in hand...
bill...
huh?
do not get stuck on some glamour puss-
I will try.
you are not such a bargain, you know, conceited and thoughtless and messy-
everybody can not be gregory peck.
- you are a setup for some gorgeous wide-eyed young babe.
how childish are you going to get before you quit it?
i do not want to be childish, I would settle for just a few years-
and cut that out right now.
am i going to lose you, bill? am i?
as of this moment you are six years old...
thanks for your help... good luck.
goodbye, mr. sampson.
knit me a muffler.
call me when you get in...
what - again?
i could watch you play that last scene a thousand times and cry every time-
performance number one thousand of this one - if i play it that long - will take place in a well-padded booby hatch...
i must say you can certainly tell mr. sampson's been gone a month.
you certainly can. especially if you are me between now and tomorrow morning...
i mean the performance. except for you, you would think he would never even directed it - it is disgraceful the way they change everything around...
well, teacher's away and actors will be actors...
during your second act scene with your father, roger ferraday's supposed to stay way upstage at the arch. he is been coming closer down every night...
when he gets too close, I will spit in his eye.
you bought the new girdles a size smaller. i can feel it.
something maybe grew a size bigger.
when we get home you are going to get into one of those girdles and act for two and half hours.
i could not get into the girdle in two an' a half hours...
you have not noticed my latest bit of interior decorating...
well, you have done so much... what is new?
the curtains. i made them myself.
they are lovely. are not they lovely, birdie?
adorable. we now got everything a dressing room needs except a basketball hoop.
just because you can not even work a zipper. it was very thoughtful, eve, and i appreciate it-
while you are cleaning up, I will take this to the wardrobe mistress-
do not bother. mrs. brown'll be along for it in a minute.
no trouble at all.
if i may so bold as to say something - did you ever hear the word "union"?
behind in your dues? how much?
i have not got a union. I am slave labor.
well?
but the wardrobe women have got one. and next to a tenor, a wardrobe woman is the touchiest thing in show business-
oh-oh.
she is got two things to do - carry clothes an' press 'em wrong - an' just let anybody else muscle in...
hello..
we are ready with your call to beverly hills...
call, what call?
it this templeton 89970? miss margo channing?
that is right, but i do not understand-
we are ready with the call you placed for 12 midnight, california time, to mr. william sampson in beverly hills...
i placed...?
go ahead, please...
what a thoughtful, ever-lovin' thing to do-
bill? have i gone crazy, bill?
you are my girl, are not you?
that i am...
then you are crazy.
when - when are you coming back?
i leave in a week - the picture's all wrapped up, we previewed last night... those previews. like opening out of town, but terrifying. there is nothing you can do, you are trapped, you are in a tin can-
- in a tin can, cellophane or wrapped in a navajo blanket, i want you home...
you in a hurry?
a big hurry, be quick about it - so good night, darling, and sleep tight...
wait a minute! you can not hang up, you have not even said it-
bill, you know how much i do - but over the phone, now really, that is kid stuff...
kid stuff or not, it does not happen every day, i want to heat it - and if you will not say it, you can sing it...
sing it?
sure! like the western union boys used to do...
bill... bill, it is your birthday.
and who remembered it? who was there on the dot, at twelve midnight...?
happy birthday, darling...
the reading could have been better, but you said it - now "many happy returns of the day..."
many happy returns of the day...
i get a party, do not i?
of course, birthday and welcome home... who will i ask?
it is no secret, i know all about the party - eve wrote me...
she did...?
she has not missed a week since i left - but you know all that, you probably tell her what to write... anyway, i sent her a list of people to ask - check with her.
yeah... i will.
how is eve? okay?
okay.
i love you...
I will check with eve...
what?
i love you too. good night, darling-
see you...
birdie-
hmm?
you do not like eve, do you?
do you want an argument or an answer?
an answer.
no.
why not?
now you want an argument.
she works hard.
night an' day.
she is loyal and efficient-
like an agent with one client.
she thinks only for me...  ... does not she?
well... let's say she thinks only about you, anyway...
how do you mean that?
I will tell you how. like - let's see - like she was studyin' you, like you were a play or a book or a set of blueprints. how you walk, talk, think, eat, sleep-
I am sure that is very flattering, birdie, and I am sure there is nothing wrong with that!
well - what do you think of my elegant new suit?
very becoming. it looks better on you than it did on me.
i can imagine... you know, all it needed was some taking in here and letting out there - are you sure you will not want it yourself?
quite sure. i find it just a bit too - too "seventeenish" for me...
oh, come now, as though you were an old lady... I am on my way. is there anything more you have thought of-?
there is the script to go back to the guild-
I have got it.
- and those checks or whatever it is for the income tax man.
right here.
it seems i can not think of a thing you have not thought of...
that is my job.  see you at tea time...
eve...  ... by any chance, did you place a call from me to bill for midnight california time?
oh, golly. and i forgot to tell you-
yes, dear. you forgot all about it.
well, i was sure you would want to, of course, being his birthday, and you have been so busy these past few days, and last night i meant to tell you before you went out with the richards - and i guess i was asleep when you got home...
yes, i guess you were. it - it was very thoughtful of you, eve.
mr. sampson's birthday. i certainly would not forget that. you would never forgive me.  as a matter of fact, i sent him a telegram myself...
now who is show up at this hour? it is time people went home - hold that coat up...  ... whose is it?
some hollywood movie star, her plane got in late.
discouraging, is not it? women with furs like that where it never gets cold...
hollywood.
tell me, eve - how are things with you? happy?
there should be a new word for happiness. being here with miss channing has been - i just can not say, she is been so wonderful, done so much for me-
lloyd says margo compensates for underplaying on the stage by overplaying reality...  ... next to that sable, my new mink seems like an old bedjacket...  ... you have done your share, eve. you have worked wonders with margo...
mrs. richards.
karen.
karen...  ... is not it awful, I am about to ask you for another favor - after all you have already done.
nobody's done so much, eve, you have got to stop thinking of yourself as one of the hundred neediest cases... what is it?
well... miss channing's affairs are in such good shape... there is not enough to keep me as busy as i should be, really - not that I have ever considered anything that would take me away from her... but the other day - when i heard mr. fabian tell miss channing that her understudy was going to have a baby, and they would have to replace her...
... you want to be margo's new understudy.
i do not let myself think about it, even-  - but i do know the part so well, and every bit of the staging, there would be no need to break in a new girl-  - but suppose i had to go on one night? to an audience that came to see margo channing. no, i could not possibly...
do not worry too much about that. margo just does not miss performances. if she can walk, crawl or roll - she plays.
the show must go on.
no, dear. margo must go on.  as a matter of fact, i see no reason why you should not be margo's understudy...
do you think miss channing would approve?
i think she would cheer.
but mr. richards and mr. sampson-
they will do as they are told.
then - would you talk to mr. fabian about it?
of course.
you will not forget it?
i will not forget.
i seem to be forever thanking you for something, do not i?
the bed looks like a dead animal act. which one is sables?
but she just got here...
she is on her way. with half the men in the joint.  it is only a fur coat...
what did you expect - live sables?
a diamond collar, gold sleeves - you know, picture people...
bill says actors out there eat just as infrequently as here-
they can always grab oranges off trees. this you can not do in times square...
every now and then, some elder statesman of the theater or cinema assures the public that actors and actresses are just plain folk. ignoring the fact that their greatest attraction to the public is their complete lack of resemblance to normal human beings.
now there is something a girl could make sacrifices for.
it is senseless to insist that theatrical folk in new york, hollywood and london are no different from the good people of des moines, chillicothe and liverpool. by and large, we are concentrated gatherings of neurotics, egomaniacs, emotional misfits, and precocious children-
gable. why a feller like that do not come east to do a play...
answer me this. what makes a man become a producer?
what makes a man walk into a lion cage with nothing but a chair?
this answer satisfies me a hundred percent.
we all have abnormality in common. we are a breed apart from the rest of the humanity, we theater folk. we are the original displaced personalities...
that is not a waiter, my dear. that is a butler.
well, i can not yell "oh, butler," can i? maybe somebody is name is butler...
you have a point. an idiotic one, but a point.
i do not want to make trouble. all i want is a drink.
yes. yes, it does.
it means concentration of ambition, desire, and sacrifice such as no other profession demands... and I will agree that the man or woman who accepts those terms can not be ordinary, can not be - just someone. to give so much for almost always so little...
do not get up. and please stop acting as if i were the queen mother.
I am sorry, i did not mean to-
outside of a beehive, margo, your behavior would hardly be considered either queenly or motherly!
you are in a beehive, pal, did not you know? we are all busy little bees, full of stings, making honey day and night-  - are not we, honey?
margo, really...
please do not play governess, karen, i have not your unyielding good taste, i wish I would gone to radcliffe too but father would not hear of it - he needed help at the notions counter...  I am being rude now, are not i? or should i say "ain't i"?
how about calling it a night?
and you pose as a playwright. a situation pregnant with possibilities - and all you can think of is everybody to go to sleep...
it is a good thought.
it will not play.
happy little housewife...
cut it out.
this is my house, not a theater! in my house you are a guest, not a director-!
then stop being a star - start treating your guests as your supporting cast!
hear, hear...
now let's not get into a big hassle-
it is about time we did! it is about time margo realized that what is attractive on stage need not necessarily be attractive off.
need any help?
to put me to bed? take my clothes off, hold my head, tuck me in, turn off the lights, tiptoe out...? eve would. would not you, eve?
if you would like.
i would not like.
coming?
in a minute...
you must not mind margo too much, even if i do...
but there must be some reason, something I have done without knowing...
the reason is margo and do not try to figure it out. einstein couldn't.
if i thought I would offended her, of all people-
eve. I am fond of margo too. but i know margo. and every now and then there is nothing i want to do so much as to kick her right square in the pants.
well - if she is got to pick on someone, I would just as soon it was me.
in my case it is necessary. too many taxi drivers write plays.
and too many of them are produced.
let's go sit by the piano.
you have me confused with dan dailey. you go sit by the piano.  and you come sit by me.  good night.
karen...  ... you will not forget, will you? what we talked about before?
no, eve, i will not forget...
you all put together?
my back's open.  did the extra help get here?
there is some loose characters dressed like maids and butlers. who would you call - the william morris agency?
you are not being funny, i could get actors for less. what about the food?
the caterer had to back for hors d'oeuvres-  voila.
that french ventriloquist taught you a lot, did not he?
there was nothing he did not know.  there is a message from the bartender. does miss channing know we ordered domestic gin by mistake?
the only thing i ordered by mistake is the guests.  they are domestic, too, and they do not care what they drink as long as it burns... where is bill? he is late.
late for what?
do not be dense. the party.
i am not dense. and he is been here twenty minutes.
well, i certainly think it is odd he has not even come up...
do not let me kill the point. or is not it a story for grownups?
you have heard it. about when i looked through the wrong end of a camera finder.
remind me to tell you about when i looked into the heart of an artichoke.
I would like to hear it.
some snowy night in front of the fire... in the meantime, while we are on the subject, will you check about the hors d'oeuvres? the caterer forgot them, the varnish was not dry or something...
of course.
looks like I am going to have a very fancy party...
i thought you were going to be late-
when I am guest of honor?
i had no idea you were even here.
i ran into eve on my way upstairs; she told me you were dressing.
that never stopped you before.
well, we started talking, she wanted to know all about hollywood, she seemed so interested...
she is a girl of so many interests.
it is a pretty rare quality these days.
she is a girl of so many rare qualities.
so she seems.
so you have pointed out, so often. so many qualities, so often. her loyalty, efficiency, devotion, warmth, affection - and so young. so young and so fair...
i can not believe you are making this up - it sounds like something out of an old clyde fitch play...
clyde fitch, thought you may not think so, was well before my time!
I have always denied the legend that you were in 'our american cousin' the night lincoln was shot...
i do not think that is funny!
of course it is funny - this is all too laughable to be anything else. you know what i think about this - this age obsession of yours - and now this ridiculous attempt to whip yourself up into a jealous froth because i spent ten minutes with a stage-struck kid-
twenty minutes!
thirty minutes, forty minutes! what of it?
stage-struck kid... she is a young lady - of qualities. and I will have you know I am fed up with both the young lady and her qualities! studying me as if - as if i were a play or a set of blueprints! how i walk, talk, think, eat, sleep!
now how can you take offense at a kid trying in every way to be as much like her ideal as possible!
stop calling her a kid! it so happens there are particular aspects of my life to which i would like to maintain sole and exclusive rights and privileges!
for instance what?
for instance - you!
this is my cue to take you in my arms and reassure you - but I am not going to. I am too mad-
- guilty.
mad! darling, there are certain characteristics for which you are famous - on stage and off. i love you for some of them - and in spite of others. i have not let those become too important to me. they are part of your equipment for getting along in what is laughably called out environment - you have got to keep your teeth sharp. all right. but you will not sharpen them on me - or on eve...
what about her teeth? what about her fangs?
she has not cut them yet, and you know it! so when you start judging an idealistic dreamy-eyed kid by the barroom, benzedrine standards of this megalomaniac society - i will not have it! eve harrington has never by word, look, thought or suggestion indicated anything to me but her adoration for you and her happiness at our being in love! and to intimate anything else does not spell jealousy to me - it spells a paranoic insecurity that you should be ashamed of!
cut! print it! what happens in the next reel? do i get dragged off screaming to the snake pit?
the hors d'oeuvres are here. is there anything else i can do?
thank you, eve. I would like a martini - very dry.
may i have your coat?
do not bother, i can take it up myself...
please...
i like that girl. that quality of quiet graciousness...
... among so many quiet qualities.
margo, nothing you have ever done has made me as happy as your taking eve in...
I am so happy you are happy.
make it bergdorf goodman... and now everything is on its proper shelf, eh, max? done up in little ribbons. i could die right now and nobody'd be confused. how about you, max?
how about me what?
supposed you dropped dead. what about your inventory?
i am not going to die. not with a hit.
thank you.
nothing, really...
the kid - junior, that is - will be right down. unless you would like to take her drink up to her...
i can always get a fresh one. karen - you are a gibson girl...
the general atmosphere is very macbethish. what has or is about to happen?
what is he talking about?
macbeth.
we know you, we have seen you before like this. is it over - or just beginning?
i distinctly remember striking your name from the guest list. what are you doing here?
dear margo. you were an unforgettable peter pan - you must play it again, soon. you remember miss caswell?
i do not. how do you do?
we never met. that is why.
miss caswell is an actress. a graduate of copacabana school of dramatic arts.  ah... eve.
good evening, mr. dewitt.
i had no idea you knew each other.
this must be, at long last, our formal introduction. until now we have met only in passing...
that is how you met me. in passing.
eve, this is an old friend of mr. dewitt's mother - miss caswell, miss harrington...  addison, I have been wanting you to meet eve for the longest time-
it could only have been your natural timidity that kept you from mentioning it...
you have heard of her great interest in the theater-
we have that in common.
then you two must have a long talk-
claudia dear, come closer.  this is max fabian. he is a producer. go do yourself some good.
why do they always look like unhappy rabbits?
because that is what they are. go make him happy.
you must not worry about your little charge. she is in safe hands.
amen.
"liebestraum."
i just played it.
play it again.
but that was the fourth straight time.
then this will be five. i suppose you think I am too drunk to count.
no. you are just crazy about "liebestraum."
"liebestraum."
look, miss channing... it is kind of depressing. if you do not mind my saying so, everybody's kind of dying on the vine...
my dear horowitz. in the first place, I am paying you union scale. second, it is my piano. third, if everybody does not like kind of dying on the vine, they can get off the vine and go home. "liebestraum."
many of your guests have been wondering when they may be permitted to view the body. where has it been laid out?
it has not been laid out, we have not finished with the embalming. as a matter of fact, you are looking at it. the remains of margo channing. sitting up. it is my last wish to be buried sitting up.
would not you feel more natural taking a bow?
you know nothing about feelings, natural or unnatural.
then without feeling, your guests were also wondering whether the music could not be a shade more on the - shall we say, happier side?
if my guests do not like it here, i suggest they accompany you to the nursery where I am sure you will all feel more at home.
margo. you by any chance got bicarbonate of soda in the house?
poor max. heartburn?  it is that miss caswell. i do not know why she does not give addison heartburn.
no heart to burn.
everybody has a heart - except some people.  of course I have got bicarb. there is a box in the pantry. we will put your name on it. max fabian. it will say there. always. just for you.
let the rest of the world beat their brains out for a buck. it is friends that count. and i got friends.
i love you, max. i really mean it. i love you. come to the pantry.
here you are, maxie dear. one good burp and you will be rid of that miss caswell...
the situation I am in am not the kind you can belch your way out. i made a promise...
miss caswell?  what?
an audition for the part we are replacing. what's-her-name, your sister...
well, if she can act, she might not be bad. she looks like she might burn down a plantation...
i feel right now like there is one burning in me.
when is the audition?
a couple of weeks.
i tell you what. why do not i read with her?
would you?
anything to help you out, max.
this is real cooperation. i appreciate it.
not at all. and you could do me a big favor, if you would-
all you got to do is name it.
give eve harrington job in you office.
you get quick action, do not you?
margo, i would not think of taking that girl away from you...
you said yourself my inventory was in good shape - all of my merchandise put away. to keep her here with nothing to do - I would be standing in her way... and you need her, max.
but what could she do?
she would be a great help - read scripts, interview people you have to see, get rid of the ones you do not have to... you would be a man of leisure-
well...
think of your health, max - more time to relax out in the fresh air at a race track...
i do not know if this would be a wise move...
promise.
i promise.
that is my max.
there you are, both of you. max, karen has decided it is time to go.
where is she?
up in the room.
who is left out there?
too many. and you have got a new guest. a movie star from hollywood.
shucks. and my autograph book is at the cleaners.
you disapprove of me when I am like this, do not you?
not exactly. sometimes, though, i wish i understood you better.
when you do, let me in on it.
i will.
how is the new one coming?
the play? all right, i guess...
"cora." she is - still a girl of twenty?
twentyish. it is not important.
do not you think it is about time it became important?
how do you mean?
do not be evasive.
margo, you have not got any age.
miss channing is ageless. spoken like a press agent.
i know what I am talking about, after all they are my plays...
spoken like an author.  lloyd, I am not twentyish. i am not thirtyish. three months ago, i was forty years old. forty. four oh.  that slipped out, i had not quite made up my mind to admit it. now i feel as if I would suddenly taken all my clothes off...
week after week, to thousands of people, you are as young as you want...
... as young as they want, you mean. and I am not interested in whether thousands of people think I am six or six hundred-
just one person. is not that so?  you know what this is all about, do not you? it has very little to do with whether you should play "cora" - it has everything to do with the fact that you have had another fight with bill.
why so remote, addison? i should think you would be at the side of your protegee, lending her moral support...
miss caswell, at the moment, is where i can lend no support - moral or otherwise.
the ladies' - shall we say - lounge?
being violently ill to her tummy.
it is good luck before an audition. she will be all right once it starts.
miss caswell got lucky too late. the audition is over.
over? it can not be. I have come to read with her. i promised max.
the audition was called for 2:30. it is now nearly four.
is it really? i must start wearing a watch, i never do, you know... who read with miss caswell? bill?  lloyd?  well, it could not have been max! who?
naturally enough, your understudy.
i consider it highly unnatural to allow a girl in an advanced state of pregnancy-
i refer to your new and unpregnant understudy. eve harrington.
eve! my understudy...
did not you know?
of course i knew.
it just slipped your mind.
how... how was miss caswell?
frankly, i do not remember.
just slipped your mind.
completely. nor, i am sure, could anyone else present tell you how miss caswell read or whether miss caswell read or rode a pogo stick.
was she that bad?
margo, as you know, i have lived in the theater as a trappist monk lives in his faith. i have no other world, no other life - and once in a great while i experience that moment of revelation for which all true believers wait and pray. you were one. jeanne eagels another... paula wessely... hayes - there are others, three or four. eve harrington will be among them...
i take it she read well.
it was not reading, it was a performance. brilliant, vivid, something made of music and fire...
how nice.
in time she will be what you are.
a mass of music and fire. that is me. an old kazoo and some sparkles. tell me - was bill swept away, too, or were you too full of revelation to notice?
bill did not say - but lloyd was beside himself. he listened to his play as if someone else had written it, he said, it sounded so fresh, so new, so full of meaning...
how nice for lloyd. and how nice for eve. how nice for everybody.
eve was incredibly modest. she insisted that no credit was due her, that lloyd felt as he did only because she read lines exactly as he had written them.
the implication being that i have not been reading them as written.
to the best of my recollection, neither your name nor your performance entered the conversation.
feeling better, my dear?
like i just swam the english channel. now what?
you next move, it seems to me, should be toward television.
tell me this. do they have auditions for television?
that is all television is, my dear. nothing but auditions.
terribly sorry I am late, lunch was long and i could not find a cab - where is miss caswell, shall we start? oh, hello, eve...
hello, miss channing.
how are you making out in mr. fabian's office?  i do not want you working the child too hard, max - just because you promised. as you see, i kept my promise, too...
it is all over.
what is all over?
the audition.
eve?  how enchanting...  wherever did you get the idea of having eve read with miss caswell?
she is your understudy.
eve? eve, my understudy? but i had no idea...
i thought you knew... she was put on over a week ago-
it seems almost inconceivable that i have not seen her backstage, but with so many people loitering around... well, well. so eve is not working for max after all-  - max you sly puss.
miss channing, i can not tell you how glad i am that you arrived so late.
really, eve? why?
well, if you would been here to begin with, i would not have dared to read at all...
why not?
... and if you would come in the middle, I would have stopped, i could not have gone on-
what a pity, all that fire and music being turned off...
what fire and music?
you would not understand.  how was miss caswell?
back to copacabana. but eve. margo, let me tell you about eve-
i was dreadful, miss channing, believe me - i have no right to be anyone's understudy, much less yours...
I am sure you underestimate yourself, eve. you always do.  you were about to tell me about eve...
you would have been proud of her.
I am sure.
she was a revelation...
to you, too?
what do you mean?
i mean, among other things, that it must have been a revelation to have your twenty-four-year-old character played by twenty-four-year-old actress...
that is beside the point.
it is right to the point. also that it must have sounded so new and fresh to you - so exciting to have the lines read as you wrote them!
addison-!
so full of meaning, fire and music!
you have been talking to that venomous fishwife, addison dewitt-
- in this case, apparently, as trustworthy as the world almanac!
you knew when you came in that the audition was over, that eve was your understudy! playing that childish game of cat and mouse...
not mouse, never mouse! if anything - rat!
you have a genius for making barroom brawl out of a perfectly innocent misunderstanding at most!
perfectly innocent! man have been hanged for less! I am lied to, attacked behind my back, accused of reading your silly dialogue inaccurately - as if it were holy gospel!
i never said it was!
then you listened as if someone else had written you play - whom did you have in mind? sherwood? arthur miller? beaumont and fletcher?
this is for lawyers to talk about, this concerns a run-of-the-play contract, and this you can not rewrite or ad lib!
are you threatening me with legal action, mr. fabian?
are you breaking the contract?
answer my question!
who am i to threaten? I am a dying man.
i did not hear you.
i said I am a dying man!
not until the last drugstore has sold its last pill!
i shall never understand the weird process by which a body with a voice suddenly fancies itself a mind! just when exactly does an actress decide they are her words she is saying and her thoughts she is expressing?
usually at the point when she is got to rewrite and rethink them to keep the audience from leaving the theater!
it is about time the piano realized it has not written the concerto!
and you, i take it, are the paderewski who plays his concerto on me, the piano?  where is princess fire-and-music?
who?
the kid. junior.
gone.
i must have frightened her away.
i would not be surprised. sometimes you frighten me.
poor little flower. just dropped her petals and folded her tent...
do not mix your metaphors.
i mix what i like.
okay. mix.
I am nothing but a body with a voice. no mind.
what a body, what a voice.
the ex-ship news' reporter. no body, no voice, all mind!
the gong rang. the fight's over. calm down.
i will not calm down!
do not calm down.
you are being terribly tolerant, are not you?
I am trying terribly hard.
well, you needn't. i will not be tolerated. and i will not be plotted against!
here we go...
such nonsense, what do you all take me for - little nell from the country? been my understudy for over a week without my knowing, carefully hidden no doubt-
now do not get carried away-
- shows up for an audition when everyone knew I would be here... and gives a performance! out of nowhere - gives a performance!
you have been all through that with lloyd-
the playwright does not make the performance - and it does not just happen! and this one did not - full of fire and music and whatnot, it was carefully rehearsed i have no doubt, over and over, full of those bill sampson touches!
i am sick and tired of these paranoiac outbursts!
paranoiac!
i did not know eve harrington was your understudy until half past two this afternoon!
tell that to dr. freud! along with the rest of it...
no, I will tell it to you! for the last time, I will tell it to you. because you have got to stop hurting yourself, and me, and the two of us by these paranoiac tantrums!
that word again! i do not even know what it means...
it is time you found out. i love you.  i love you. you are a beautiful and intelligent woman-  - a beautiful and intelligent woman and a great actress-  - at the peak of her career. you have every reason for happiness-  - every reason, but due to some strange, uncontrollable, unconscious drive you permit the slightest action of a kid-  - kid like eve to turn you into a hysterical, screaming harpy! now once and for all, stop it!
it is obvious you are not a woman.
I have been aware of that for some time.
well, i am.
I will say.
do not be condescending.
come on, get up. I will buy you a drink.
i admit i may have seen better days, but i am still not to be had for the price of a cocktail - like a salted peanut.
margo, let's make peace.
the terms are too high. unconditional surrender.
just being happy? just stopping all this nonsense about eve - and eve and me?
it is not nonsense.
but if i tell you it is - as i just did. were you listening to me?  is not that enough?
i wish it were.
then what would be enough?  if we were married?
i would not want you to marry me just to prove something.
you have had so many reasons for not wanting to marry me... margo, tell me what is behind all this.
i - i do not know, bill. just a feeling, i do not know...
i think you do know but you will not or can not tell me.  i said before it was going to be my last try, and i meant it. i can not think of anything else to do. i wish i could.  we usually wind up screaming and throwing things as the curtain comes down. then it comes up again and everything's fine. but not this time.  you know there is not a playwright in the world who could make me believe this would happen between two adult people. goodbye, margo.
bill...  ... where are you going? to find eve?
that suddenly makes the whole thing believable.
lloyd, what happened...?
up to here! that is where I have got it - up to here! of all the star ridden, presumptuous, hysterical-
margo, again...
and again and again! two hours late for the audition, to begin with-
that is on time for margo.
then a childish, heavy-handed routine about not knowing eve was her understudy-
it is just possible she didn't...
of course she knew! for one thing, addison told her how superbly eve had read the part-!  karen, let me tell you about eve. she is got everything - a born actress. sensitive, understanding, young, exciting, vibrant-
- do not run out of adjectives, dear.
- everything a playwright first thinks of wanting to write about... until his play becomes a vehicle for miss channing...
margo has not done badly by it.
margo. margo's great. she knows it. that is the trouble. she can play peck's bad boy all she wants, and who is to stop her? who is to give her that boot in the rear she needs and deserves?
it is going to be a cozy weekend.
what is?
we are driving out to the country tomorrow night. just the four of us. bill, margo, you and i...
well. we have spent weekends before with nobody talking...  ... just be sure to lock up all blunt instruments and throwable objects...
what time is it?
when you asked a minute ago it was five-forty-two. it is now five forty-three. when you ask a minute from no, it will be-
i just do not want margo to miss her train. as it is, she will barely make the theater...
five-fifty-five. we will be at the station in plenty of time...
that little place just two hours form new york. it is on my list of things-i'll-never-understand. like collecting shrunken indian heads...
of all people you should know what it means to want some peace and quiet-
peace and quit is for libraries.
lloyd, be careful...
just a little skid, that is all. this road's like glass.
karen and i just do not want an accident-
i have no intention of having an accident!
it is not important whether you do. we are wearing long underwear.
but it can not be! we can not be out of gas! i filled it myself yesterday!  was not it full when you drove to brewster this morning?
i guess i did not look. you know i do not pay attention to those things...
incredible.
how much time have we?
roughly ten minutes.
how far to the station?
three or four miles...
any houses or farms around where we can borrow gas?
none in sight, there are not many along this back road...
not many car either, not much chance of a lift...
you will break your neck on that ice.
what a way to die - trying to get an actress to the theater in time. tell max i want to be buried with royalties...
do not joke about such things.
how fortunate that i have an understudy so ready, so willing and so able to go on.
the audience will want its money refunded, believe me.
thank you, lloyd. godspeed.
he always looks so pathetic whenever he does anything physical-
it seems to me that walking, for most people, is not very dangerous.
i just never think of lloyd as anywhere but indoors and anything but sitting down.
be brave. he will come back - with or without gas.
do you want it on?
it does not matter.
i detest cheap sentiment.
karen.  i have not been pleasant this weekend.
we have all seemed a little tense lately...
come to think of it, i have not been very pleasant for weeks. for that, I am truly sorry. more than any two people i know, i do not want you and lloyd to be angry with me...
we are never deeply angry, we just get sore. the way you do. we know you too well...
so many people - know me. i wish i did. i wish someone would tell be about me...
you are margo. just - margo.
and what is that? besides something spelled out in light bulbs, i mean. besides something called temperament, which consists mostly of swooping about on a broomstick creaming at the top of my voice... infants behave the way i do, you know. they carry on and misbehave - they would get drunk if they knew how - when they can not have what they want. when they feel unwanted and insecure - or unloved.
what about bill?
what about bill?
he is in love with you.
more than anything in this world, i love bill. and i want bill. i want him to want me. but me. not margo channing. and if i can not tell they apart - how can he?
why should he - and why should you?
bill's in love with margo channing. he is fought with her, worked with her, loved her... but ten years from now - margo channing will have ceased to exist. and what is left will be... what?
margo. bill is all of eight years younger than you.
those years stretch as the years go on. I have seen it happen too often.
not to you. not to bill.
is not that what they always say?
i do not suppose the heater runs when the motor doesn't?
silly, is not it? you would think they would fix it so people could just sit in a car and keep warm...
about eve. I have acted pretty disgracefully toward her, too.
well...
let's not fumble for excuses, not here and now with my hair down. at best, let's say I have been oversensitive to... well, to the fact that she is so young - so feminine and helpless. to so many things i want to be for bill... funny business, a woman's career. the things you drop on your way up the ladder, so you can move faster. you forget you will need them again when you go back to being a woman. that is one career all females have in common - whether we like it or not - being a woman. sooner or later we have all got to work at it, no matter what other careers we have had or wanted... and, in the last analysis, nothing is any good unless you can look up just before dinner or turns around in bed - and there he is. without that, you are not woman. you are something with a french provincial office or a book full of clippings - but you are not a woman...  ... slow curtain. the end.
margo.  margo, i want you to know how sorry i am about this...
about what?
this. i can not tell you how sorry i am!
do not give it another thought, one of destiny's many pranks. after all, you did not personally drain the gasoline out of the tank...
- little things here and there, it does not matter. you can be proud of yourself, you have got a right to be.
are you proud of me, bill?
I will admit i was worried when max called. i had my doubts.
you should not have had any doubts.
- after all, the other day was one scene, the woods are full of one scene sensations. but you did it. with work and patience, you will be a fine actress. if that is what you want to be.
is that what you want me to be?
I am talking about you. and what you want.
so am i.
what have i got to do with it?
everything.
the names I have been called. but never svengali.  good luck.
do not run away, bill.
from what would i be running?
you are always after truth - on the stage. what about off?
I am for it.
then face it. i have. since that first night - here - in the dressing room.
when i told you what every young actress should know.
when you told me that whatever i became, it would be because of you-
your make-up's a little heavy.
- and for you.
you are quite a girl.
you think?
I am in love with margo. had not you heard?
you hear all kinds of things.
I am only human, rumors to the contrary. and I am as curious as the next man...
find out.
only thing, what i go after, i want to go after. i do not want it to come after me.
may i come in?
certainly, mr. dewitt...
i expected to find this little room overcrowded, with a theater full of people at your feet...
i consider myself lucky they did not throw things.
of course your performance was no surprise to me. after the other day i regarded it as no more than - a promised fulfilled.
you are more than kind. but it is still miss channing's performance. I am just a carbon copy you read when you can not find the original...
you are more than modest.
it is not modesty. i just do not try to kid myself.
a revolutionary approach to the theater. however, if i may a suggestion...
please do.
i think the time has come for you to shed some of your humility. it is just as false not to blow your horn at all as it is to blow it too loudly...
i do not think I have done anything to sound off about.
we all come into this world with our little egos equipped with individual horns. if we do not blow them - who will?
even so. one isolated pretty good performance by an understudy. it will be forgotten tomorrow.
it need not be.
even if i wanted to - as you say - be less humble, blow my own horn... how would i do it? I am less than nobody.
i am somebody.
after you change, if you are not busy elsewhere, we can have supper.
I would love to! or should i pretend I am busy?
let's have a minimum of pretending. I will want to do a column about you-
I am not enough for a paragraph.
- perhaps more than one. there is so much i want to know. I have heard your story in bits and pieces... your home in wisconsin, your tragic marriage, your financial attachment to margo - it started in san francisco, did not it?  i say - your idolatry of margo started in san francisco, did not it?
that is right.
san francisco. an oasis of civilization in the california desert. tell me, do you share my high opinion of san francisco?
yes. i do.
and that memorable night when margo first dazzled you from the stage - which theater was it in san francisco? was it - the shubert?
yes. the shubert.
a fine old theater, the shubert. full of tradition, untouched by the earthquake - so sorry - fire... by the way, what was your husband's name?
eddie...
eddie what?
I am about to go into the shower, i will not be able to hear you...
i can wait. where would you like to go? we will make this a special night...
you take charge.
i believe i will.
eve. I have heard the most wonderful things about your performance-
mostly relief that i managed to stagger through it at all...
she was magnificent.
then you have heard too.
i was there. an eyewitness.
you were there? at the play - last night?
a happy coincidence.
we are having lunch with a movie talent scout.
they certainly do not waste much time.
nothing definite yet - it is just to have lunch.
from the smartness of your dress, i take it your luncheon companion is a lady?
margo.
margo? lunching in public?
it is new margo. but she is just as late as the old one.
she may be later than you think...
"... my hat which has, lo, these many seasons become more firmly rooted about my ears, is lifted to miss harrington. i am once more available for dancing in the streets and shouting from the housetops." ... i thought that one went out with woollcott...  down here... here, listen to this- "... miss harrington had much to tell - and these columns shall report her faithfully - about the lamentable practice in our theater of permitting, shall we say - mature - actresses to continue playing roles requiring a youth and vigor of which they retain but a dim memory-"
i just can not believe it.
it get better! "- about the understandable reluctance on the part of our entrenched first ladies of the stage to encourage, shall we say - younger - actresses; about miss harrington's own long and unsupported struggle for opportunity-"
i can not believe eve said those things!
in this rat race, everybody's guilty till they are proved innocent! one of the differences between the theater and civilization...  ... what gets me is how all of those papers in town happened to catch that particular performance!
lloyd says it is a publicity release...
the little witch must have had indians runners out snatching critics out of bars, steam rooms and museums or wherever they hole up... well, she will not get away with it! nor will addison dewitt and his poison pen! if equity or my lawyer can not or will not do anything about it, i will personally stuff that pathetic little lost lamb down mr. dewitt's ugly throat...
i guess at this point I am what the french call 'de trop'...
maybe just a little around the edges.
- it is addison, from start to finish, it drips with his brand of venom... taking advantage of a kid like that, twisting her words, making her say what he wanted her to say-
where did you get all that information?
eve.
eve?
she is been to see me, as a matter of fact she left just before you came in - you just missed her...
that was a pity...
she wanted to explain about her interview, wanted to apologize to someone - and did not dare face margo...
i wonder why.
you know, I have been going over our financial condition - if you will pardon the expression...
that is quite a change of subject.
what with taxes coming up - and since I am a playwright and not an oil well operator - well, I have been thinking...
I am trying hard to follow you.
if - instead of waiting until next season to do 'footsteps on the ceiling', which is in pretty good shape - and if margo can be talked into going on tour with 'aged in wood' - we could put 'footsteps...' into production right away...
I am beginning to catch up.
if we could cast it properly, that is...
maybe get some younger actress for the part? someone who would look the part as well as play it?
you have got to admit it would be a novelty.
now you are quoting addison. or eve.
eve did mention the play, you know. but just in passing - she is never ask to play a part like "cora," she would never have the nerve...
eve would ask abbott to give her costello.
no, i got the idea myself - while she was talking to me...
with gestures, of course.
for once, to write something and have it realized completely. for once, not to compromise-
lloyd richards, you are not to consider giving that contemptible little worm the part of "cora."
now just a minute-
margo channing has not been exactly a compromise all these years, half the playwrights in the world would give their shirts for that particular compromise!
now just a minute!
it strikes me that eve's disloyalty and ingratitude must be contagious!
all this fuss and hysteria because an impulsive kid got carried away by excitement and the conniving of a professional manure slinger named dewitt! she apologized, did not she?
on her knees, i have no doubt! very touching, very academy-of-dramatic arts!
that bitter cynicism of yours is something you have acquired since you left radcliffe!
the cynicism you refer to, i acquired the day i discovered i was different from little boys!
margo - and bill - want us to meet them at the cub room tonight, after theater. for a bottle of wine.
margo in the cub room. i could not be more surprised if she would said grant's tomb.
I am glad bill's back.
they would die without each other.
darling, i did not promise eve anything. just said i thought she would be fine for the part, but there were some practical difficulties...
such as?
you - for one. i told her you were set on margo playing the part - and i certainly would not make a change without your approval.
the so-called art of acting is not one for which i have a particularly high regard...
hear, hear...
but you may quote me as follows. quote. tonight miss margo channing gave a performance in your cockamamie play, the like of which i have never seen before and expect rarely to see again. unquote.
he does not exaggerate. i was good.
you were great.
it is been quite a night. i understand that your understudy - miss harrington - has given her notice.
too bad.
to margo. to my bride-to-be.
glory hallelujah.
well of all-
margo!
when? when are you going to do it?
tomorrow we meet at city hall at ten-  - and you are going to be on time.
yes, sir.
city hall, that is for prize fighters, and reporters - i see a cathedral, a bishop, banks of flowers...
it is only for the license. there is a three-day wait - blood tests, things like that...
I will marry you if it turns out you have no blood at all.
three days, that is for the bourgeois - i see a midnight elopement, waking up a village person...
what are you going to wear?
something simple. a fur coat over a nightgown...
the point is - in the cathedral, a ball park or a penny arcade - we want to have you two beside us our nearest and dearest friends.
very discreet. a note right out in the open like that. next time tell your lover to blow smoke rings - or tap a glass...
lloyd, i want you to be big about this... the world is full of love tonight, no woman is safe...
"please forgive me for butting into what seems such a happy occasion - but it is most important that i speak with you. please" - it is underlined - "meet me in the ladies' room. eve."
i understand she is now the understudy in there.
pass me the empty bottle. i may find her... why, look. there is rasputin.
after all, maybe she just wants to apologize...
i have no possible interest in anything she would have to say.
karen, in all the years of our friendship, i have never let you go to the ladies' room alone. but now i must. i am busting to know what goes on in that feverish little brain waiting there...
well... all right.
i was wondering whether you would come at all..
do not get up.  and do not act as if i were the queen mother.
i do not expect you to be pleasant.
i do not intend to be.
can not we sit down? just for a minute...
I have got a lot to say. and none of it is easy.
there can not be very much-
oh, but there is-
- and easy or not, i will not believe a word.
why should not you?  please sit down.
you know, I have always considered myself a very clever girl. smart. good head on my shoulders, that sort of thing, never the wrong word at the wrong time... but then, I would never met addison dewitt.  i remember once i had a tooth pulled. they gave me some anaesthetic - i do not remember the name - and it affected me in a strange way. i heard myself saying things i was not even thinking... as if my mind were someplace outside of my body, and could not control what i did or said-
- and you felt just like that talking to addison.
in a way. you find yourself trying to say what you mean, but somehow the words change - and they become his words - and suddenly you are not saying what you mean, but what he means-
do you expect me to believe that you did not say any of those things - that they were all addison?
no! i do not expect you to believe anything. except that the responsibility is mine. and the disgrace.
let's not get over-dramatic.
you have really got a low opinion of me, have not you? we will I will give you some pleasant news. I have been told off in no uncertain terms all over town. miss channing should be happy to hear that. to know how loyal her friends are - how much more loyal they are than she had a right to expect me to be...
eve... do not cry.
I am not crying.
tell me. how did your lunch turn out - with the man from hollywood?
some vague promises of a test, that is all - if a particular part should come along, one of those things-
but the raves about your performance-
- an understudy's performance.
well. i think you are painting the picture a little darker than it is, really. if nothing else - and do not underestimate him - you have a powerful friend in addison.
he is not my friend. you were my friends...
he can help you.
i wish I would never met him, I would like him to be dead... i want my friends back.
eve. i - i do not think you meant to cause unhappiness. but you did. more to yourself, perhaps - as it turned out - than to anyone else...
I will never get over it.
yes, you will. you theater people always do. nothing is forever in the theater. love or hate, success or failure - whatever it is, it is here, it flares up and burns hot - and then it is gone.
i wish i could believe that.
give yourself time. do not worry too much about what people think, you are very young and very talented...  ... and, believe it or not, if there is anything i can do-
i think i know...
something most important you can do.
you want to play "cora." you want me to tell lloyd i think you should play it.
if you told him so, he would give me the part. he said he would.
after all you have said... do not you know the part was written for margo?
it could have been - fifteen years ago. it is my part now.
you talk just as addison said you did.
"cora" is my part. you have got to tell lloyd it is for me.
i do not think anything in the world could make me say that.
addison wants me to play it.
over my dead body...
that will not be necessary. addison knows how margo happen to miss that performance - how i happened to know she would miss it in time to call him and notify every paper in town...  ... it is quite a story. addison could make quite a thing of it - imagine how snide and vicious he could get and still write nothing but the truth. i had a time persuading him...  ... you would better sit down. you look a bit wobbly.  if i play "cora," addison will never tell what happened - in or out of print. a simple exchange of favors. and I am so happy i can do something for you - at long last...  your friendship with margo - your deep, close friendship - what would happen to it, do you think, if she knew the chap trick you would played on her - for my benefit? and you and lloyd - how long, even in the theater, before people forgot what happened - and trusted you again?  no... it would be so much easier on everyone concerned, if i were to play "cora." and so much better theater, too...
a part in a play. you would do all that - just for a part in a play.
I would do much more - for a part that good.
hungry?
just some coffee.
I am not surprised. after all that humble pie...
nothing of the kind. karen and i had a nice talk.
heart to heart? woman to woman? including a casual reference to the part of "cora" - and your hopes of playing it.
i discussed it very openly. i told her that i had spoken to lloyd - and that he was interested.
she mentioned, of course, that margo expects to play the part?
oddly enough - she did not say a word about margo. just that she will be happy to do what she can to see that i play the part.
just like that, eh?
just like that.
do you know, eve - sometimes i think you keep things from me.
i do not think that is funny.
it was not meant to be.
i confide in you and rely on you more than anyone I have ever known! to say a thing like that now - without any reason - when i need you more than ever...
i hope you mean what you say, eve. i intend to hold you to it.
- well? what happened?
nothing much. she apologized.
with tears?
with tears.
but not right away? first the business of fighting them off, chin up, stout fella...
check.
very classy stuff, lots of technique-
you mean - all this time - she would done nothing but apologize? what did you say?
not much.
groom-  - may i have a wedding present?
what would you like? texas?
i want everybody to shut up about eve. just shut up about eve, that is all i want. give karen more wine...  ... never have i been so happy. is not this a lovely room? the cub room. what a lovely, clever name. where the elite meet. never have i seen so much elite - and all with their eyes on me. waiting for me to crack that little gnome over the noggin with a bottle. but not tonight. even eve. i forgive eve... there they go.
there goes eve. eve evil, little miss evil. but the evil that men do - how does it go, groom? something about the good they leave behind - i played it once in rep in wilkes barre...
you have got it backwards. even for wilkes-barre.
you know why i forgive eve? because she is left good behind - the four of us, together like this, it is eve's fault - i forgive her...
... and bill. especially bill. eve did that, too.
you know, she probably means well, after all...
she is a louse.
never try to outguess margo.
groom.
yes, dear.
you know what I am going to be?
a cowboy.
a married lady.
with the paper to prove it.
I am going to have a home. not just a house I am afraid to stay in... and a man to go with it. I will look up at six of the clock - and there he will be... remember, karen?
i remember.
you will be there, will not you.
often enough to keep the franchise.
a foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady... that is for me. and no more make believe! off stage or on... remember, lloyd.  i mean it, now. grown-up women only, i might even play a mother - only one child, of course, not over eight...  lloyd, will you promise not to be angry with me?
that depends.
i mean really, deeply angry...
i do not think i could be.
well. i do not want to play "cora."
now wait a minute, you are always so touchy about his plays, it is not the part - it is a great part. and a fine play. but not for me anymore - not a foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady.
what is your being married got to do with it?
it means I have finally got a life to live! i do not have to play parts I am too old for - just because I have got nothing to do with my nights!  i know you have made plans. I will make it up to you, believe me. I will tour a year with this one, anything - only you do understand - do not you, lloyd?
what is so funny?
nothing...
nothing?
everything... everything's so funny...
who is it? what is it all about?
did miss harrington tell you to call mr. richards?
i did not think you would! it seems to me, karen, that for some tine, now, you have been developing a deep unconcern for the feeling of human being in general-
I am a human being, I have got some!
- and for my feelings in particular! for my play, my career - and now for a frightened, hysterical girl on the eve of her first night in the theater!
have you forgotten about eve? what she is, what she is done?
old wives' tales, born of envy and jealousy! and a phobia against truth!
then tell me this is not true! that your concern for your play and career is one thing - and that poor frightened hysterical girl another - and that your concern for her has nothing to do with either your play or your career!
what a day - what a heavenly day...
d-day.
just like it.
and tomorrow morning you will have won your beachhead on the shores of immortality...
stop rehearsing your column... is not it strange, addison? i thought I would be panic-stricken, want to run away or something. instead, i can not wait for tonight to come. to come and go...
are you that sure of tomorrow?
are not you?
frankly - yes.
it will be a night to remember. it will bring to me everything I have ever wanted. the end of an old road - and the beginning of a new one...
all paved with diamonds and gold?
you know me better than that.
paved with what, then?
stars.
what time?
almost four.
plenty of time for a nice long nap - we rehearsed most of last night...
you could sleep, too, could not you?
why not?
the mark of a true killer.  sleep tight, rest easy - and come out fighting...
why did call me a killer?
did i say killer? i meant champion. i get my boxing terms mixed.
suites are for expense accounts. are not you being extravagant?
max is paying for it. he and lloyd had a terrific row but lloyd insisted... well. can i fix you a drink?
also with the reluctant compliments of max fabian.
lloyd. i never have any, and he likes a couple of drinks after we finish - so he sent it up...
some plain soda.  lloyd must be expecting a record run in new haven...
that is for tonight. you are invited. we are having everyone up after the performance.
we're?
lloyd and i.
addison...
she is always been so fantastically devoted to lloyd. i would imagine that only death or destruction could keep her-
addison, just a few minutes ago. when i told you this would be a night to remember - that it would bring me everything i wanted-
- something about an old road ending and a new one starting - paved with stars...
i did not mean just the theater.
what else?
so that is it. lloyd. still just the theater, after all...
it is nothing of the kind! lloyd loves me, i love him!
i know nothing about lloyd and his loves - i leave those to louisa may alcott. but i do know you.
I am in love with lloyd!
lloyd richards is commercially the most successful playwright in america-
you have no right to say such things!
- and artistically, the most promising! eve dear, this is addison.
addison, will not it be just perfect? lloyd and i - there is no telling how far we can go... he will write great plays for me, I will make them be great!  you are the only one I have told, the only one that knows except lloyd and me...
... and karen.
she does not know.
she knows enough not to be here.
but not all of it - not that lloyd and i are going to be married.
i see. and when was this unholy alliance joined?
we decided the night before last, before we came up here...
was the setting properly romantic - the lights on dimmers, gypsy violins off stage?
the setting was not romantic, but lloyd was. he woke me up at three in the morning, banging on my door - he could not sleep, he told me - he is left karen, he could not go on with the play or anything else until i promised to marry him... we sat and talked until it was light. he never went home...
you sat and talked until it was light...
we sat and talked, addison. i want a run of the play contract.
there never was, there'll never be another like you.
well, say something - anything! congratulations, skol - good work, eve!
what do you take me for?
i do not know what i take you for anything...
it is possible - even conceivable - that you have confused me with that gang of backward children you have been playing tricks on - that you have the same contempt for me that you have for them?
I am sure you mean something by that, addison, but i do not know what...
look closely, eve, it is time you did. i am addison dewitt. I am nobody's fool. least of all - yours.
i never intended you to be.
yes, you did. you still do.
i still do not know what you are getting at. right now i want to take my nap. it is important that i-
- it is important right now that we talk. killer to killer.
champion to champion.
not with me, you are no champion. you are stepping way up in class.
addison, will you please say what you have to say plainly and distinctly - and then get out so i can take my nap!
very well, plainly and distinctly. although i consider it unnecessary - because you know as well as i, what i am about to say.  lloyd may leave karen, but he will not leave karen for you.
what do you mean by that?
more plainly and more distinctly? i have not come to new haven to see the play, discuss your dreams, or to pull the ivy from the walls of yale! i have come to tell you that you will not marry lloyd - or anyone else - because i will not permit it.
what have you got to do with it?
everything. because after tonight, you will belong to me.
i can not believe my ears...
a dull cliche.
belong - to you? that sound medieval - something out of an old melodrama...
so does the history of the world for the past twenty years. i do not enjoy putting it as bluntly as this, frankly i had hoped that you would, somehow, have known - have taken it for granted that you and i...
... taken it for granted? that you and i...
you are too short for that gesture. besides, it went out with mrs. fiske.
then if you will not get out, I will have you thrown out.
your name is not eve harrington. it is gertrude slescynski.
what of it?
it is true that your parents were poor. they still are. and they would like to know how you are - and where. they have not heard from you for three years...
what of it?
a matter of opinion. granted. it is also true that you worked in a brewery. but life in the brewery was apparently not as dull as you pictured it. as a matter of fact, it got less and less dull - until you boss's wife had your boss followed by detectives!
she never proved anything, not a thing!
but the $500 you got to get out of town brought you straight to new york - did not it?
she was a liar, she was a liar!
answer my question! were not you paid to get out of town?
i had to get in, to meet margo! i had to say something, be somebody, make her like me!
she did like you, she helped and trusted you! you paid her back by trying to take bill away!
that is not true!
i was there, i saw you and heard you through the dressing room door!
you used my name and my column to blackmail karen into getting you the part of "cora" - and you lied to me about it!
no-no-no...
i had lunch with karen not three hours ago. as always with women who want to find out things, she told more than she learned...  ... do you want to change your story about lloyd beating at your door the other night?
then say so.
yes, addison.
and you realize - you agree how completely you belong to me?
yes, addison.
take your nap, now. and good luck for tonight.
i will not play tonight.  i couldn't. not possibly. i could not go on...
could not go on? you will give the performance of your life.
congratulations, eve.
thank you, karen.
I am giving her a very high-class party. it am not like a rehearsal, she do not have to be late.
as soon as the peasants stop pawing her.
i do not suppose there is a drink left...
you can have one at max's.
i do not think I am going.
why not?
because i do not want to.
max has gone to a great deal of trouble, it is going to be an elaborate party, and it is for you.
no, it is not.  it is for this.
it is the same thing, is not it?
exactly.  here. take it to the party instead of me.
you are being childish.
I am tired. i want to go home.
very well. i shall drop you and go on to the party. i have no intention of missing it...
who are you?
miss harrington...
what are you doing here?
i - i guess i fell asleep.
please do not have me arrested, please! i did not steal anything - you can search me!
how did you get in here?
i hid outside in the hall till the maid came to turn down your bed. she must have forgot something and when she went to get it, she left the door open. i sneaked in and hid till she finished. then i just looked around - and pretty soon i was afraid somebody'd notice the lights were on so i turned them off - and then i guess, i fell asleep.
you were just looking around...
that is all.
what for?
you probably will not believe me.
probably not.
it was for my report.
what report? to whom?
about how you live, what kind of clothes you wear - what kind of perfume and books - things like that. you know the eve harrington clubs - that they have got in most of the girls' high schools?
I have heard of them.
ours was one of the first. erasmus hall. I am the president.
erasmus hall. that is in brooklyn, is not it?
lots of actresses come from brooklyn. barbara stanwyck, susan hayward - of course, they are just movie stars.
you are going to hollywood - are not you?  from the trunks you are packing, you must be going to stay a long time.
i might.
that spilled drink is going to ruin your carper.
the maid'll fix it in the morning.
I will just pick up the broken glass.
do not bother.
how did you get all the way up here from brooklyn?
subway.
how long does it take?
with changing and everything, a little over an hour.
it is after one now. you will not get home till all hours.
i do not care if i never get home.
that is the door.
you rest. I will get it...
hello, there. who are you?
miss harrington's resting, mr. dewitt. she asked me to see who it is...
we will not disturb her rest. it seems she left her award in the taxicab. will you give it to her?
how do you know my name?
it is a very famous name, mr. dewitt.
and what is your name?
phoebe.
phoebe?
i call myself phoebe.
why not? tell me, phoebe, do you want some day to have an award like that of your own?
