gatling! they have got a gatling!
dammit, this stopped being fun about two years ago!
some indian tracker you turned out to be, tom.
you pay me to find you bluecoats. there they are.
cannon or gatling?
both would be nice.
soon as i hit one, the other'll know and beat us up.
'bout time you got here, buddy.
what is going on?
every time i put my head up to hit that gatling, they try to shoot it off.
so we got a plan?
my plan of lying here pissing myself seems to be working mighty fine, thank you.
i can hit those boys from here. we just need a distraction.
he is smiling.
never a good thing.
distracting enough for you?
pff. they hardly even noticed you.
so you are saying i could have done more to attract their attention.
mm-hmm.
such as?
you could have worn one of those big, floppy woman's easter sunday hats.
that would have made an impression.
i figure.
see, that is your problem, frank. by the time you finish figuring out stuff, I am already finished doing it.
no, jesse, your problem is you are always doing stuff before I am finished figuring it out.
wait'll we get back to missouri, start telling those gals about how little jesse james charged the whole union army by himself!
you ride like a comanche.
you can ride like that?
i said like a comanche, not this comanche.
ride with me, cousin?
i could use the walk.
suit yourself. we will have some horses waiting for you at the road.  let's ride, rangers!
web's dead.
i reckoned.
hell of a war.
I am sure it seemed like a good idea at the time.
where you boys going?
there is yankees back there. lot's of 'em.
yesterday.
well, somebody better go tell the damn yankees!
home. we go home. we ride like hell to get there, and we kill anything or anyone that comes between us and our homes. and when we get there we stay there and god help any fool who tries to get me to leave my farm again.
best damn plan i heard all war.
hello, liberty missoura!
all this time in the saddle... we get to the farm, I am going to shoot this damn horse just on principle.
never thought that pissant town would look so pretty.
anywhere nobody's shooting at me is pretty.
home, boys. back to our farms.
planting corn. harvesting corn. year after year.
corn gonna shoot at me?
nope.
then i love it.
tom, why do not you stop at our spread before you head on out to the reservation? figure we might have some work for you, if you want.
hmm. go back to the reservation and get drunk in a dirt shack, or work for you...
well?
I am thinking...
what the --
must be a garrison in town. we are in occupied territory, boys.
hands off your hip, cole.
you are not scared, are you?
pick your fights, cousin. you taught me that.
jesus mercy, that is charlie higgins, dave laller ...
... will perry ...
looks like web mimms was not the only casualty this town's got.
we better go to doc's, see what is going on here.
not now.
what is wrong with you?
in case we have to kill these sonofabitches, i do not want them to see us coming.
cole, i want to get to the farm, make sure little jim and the girls are okay.
stop by our spread after that, tell our ma we are all right. we will go to doc mimms.
i think i may just go on to the reservation.
tom, I am this close to coming with you...
zerelda? little zee mimms?
you were little jesse james when you left.
but you got big!
frank, do not you have something to say?
you are doing just fine.
zee, we got to talk to you and your father.
-- rode right into them, screaming like a banshee.
my little web did that?
pff. he jumped his horse clear over our heads, killed a dozen union soldiers before they knew what hit them.
whyyyy... he took down the gatling gun and the cannon all by himself.
saved all our lives, doc. none of the liberty boys would have come home if not for web mimms, doc. god's honest truth.
web died fighting?
died a hero.
but still died.
if there is anything we can do for you, dr. mimms. we want to help.
daddy, do not start with this again.
zerelda, it is no coincidence. the railroad men come through, offering to buy up land. nobody sells. then they start hanging men who own farms for treason?
all we thought about was coming home. i swore I would kill anybody who tried to get me off my farm again. if i have to go to war with the railroad to stay, fine by me.
think about this. if we just come up with a story and stick to it, we should be all right.
what kind of story are they going to believe?
that just might work.
maybe, maybe...
"big and older"?
you can shut up now.
you are a charmer.
i swear I will shoot you in your sleep.
next time try "fat and haggard."
did you kill yankees?
a fair number, ma.
say your prayers?
your ma would not let us leave until we ate something.
that was two hours ago.
ma, I am glad to see you being nice to our injun friend.
he is a good christian and he killed yankees. jesus told me that made him an all right boy.
she is still talking to jesus.
what worries me is that jesus is talking back.
you ever notice zerelda's eyes?
she got two of them.
i think one of 'em's glass.
which one, right or left?
the brown one.
oh, lord, the dance hall girl at bunty's...
sadie was not a man!
she had a moustache.
she was european!
all right, calm down. I will agree sadie was a woman --
-- if you stop saying things about my zee.
your zee? hmm.  "from women's eyes this doctrine i derive: they sparkle still the right promethean fire; they are the books, the arts, the academes, that show, contain, and nourish all the world."
i have no idea what you just said, but it sounded real nice.
shakespeare.  he is european.
ah.
thanks for the help.
after all you did on our farm?  you miss it, do not you jesse?
the war? what, are you crazy?  there are things i miss about it.
it was exciting.
but it was a whole lot of killing. why should we miss that?
because we were good at it?  hell, we were great at it. jesse, do not tell anyone i said this, because everybody knows I am the toughest man in this town, but you are one terrifying sonofabitch with those guns.
yeah.
easterners.
we are just fine, thank you, sir.
you know him?
heard of him.
well, this land is about to be condemned.
I am doing you folks a favor --
the lord says we can bury 'em out back in the orchard, nobody'll ever find them.
somebody is in a vengeful smiting mood today.
i went up to the courthouse and looked at the right of way documents for the rail bed. the railroad does not even need our land, they are just taking the land on both sides for as far as they can.
damn. all that reading paid off.
they came up, made the same offer they made you folks. our little brother jim tried to chase 'em off, one of those detectives hit him in the head, knocked him out. cole lost his temper.
oh no...
he just lost his temper a little.
how many of them did he kill?
two.
damn!
they said because the detectives were working for the department of the interior --
the army can hang him.
tomorrow.
boys...
go home, doc.  they am not going to hang no more liberty boys.
i could not lose him.
jim younger, i told you--
and you are too young.
I am the same age you were when you went off to war.
and the same age web was. no.
relax, alan. the army has this all in hand. and mr. thaddeus rains will be very pleased with this news. nothing like a hanging to motivate the populace to relocate.
it is not my job to relax. I have put men facing out both ways down main street, so nobody can ride in shooting. I have got a sharpshooter up on the water tower just in case.
he is going to be fine, right daddy?
the bullet came out clean, but he lost a whole lot of blood. praying would not hurt.
jesse, are you awake?
mmmm.
jesse, is that your hand?
nuh-huh ...
they are gone. what are you --
i fooled them into thinking i was alone.
well, i hope the boy pulls through. we should know in the morning.
i think he is already feeling better.
mr. thaddeus rains, sir, it is a pleasure to have you join us in the field.
and it is my pleasure to be here.
really!
no! it is not my pleasure to have to leave my board room to come to this godforsaken piece of dirt to discover why in the name of all that is holy you cannot seem to evict a few simple farmers from their pathetic little mudholes so that i may build the greatest railroad that this country has ever seen!
i can completely understand your distress, sir.
parker, tell me what is going on so i can return as quickly as possible to boston and my whores and cigars, not necessarily in that order.
two weeks ago, we managed to arrange to have the army hang one of the local farmers.
good.
unfortunately not, sir. a gang of local thugs managed to rescue him from the gallows. not only has this inspired resistance from the other farmers, the redoubtable mr. alan pinkerton was seriously injured during the incident.
leaving you in charge of operations until he recovers.
yes sir.
just perfect.
a further impediment is that the army garrison has been ordered to move on from liberty. we will no longer have that particular stick with which to threaten the farmers.
you see the army leaving and you see the loss of a tool. i see a power void to be filled. as we have the most power, we may move with impunity.
i see. I will get together four patrols of our detectives for action tonight.
I will teach these podunks what happens when they challenge the righteousness of progress.
you should not be up.
I have been on my back two weeks. I am sick of it.
you are sick of my company?
no! i mean, of course not. no.
teasing you is completely unfair.
what you do to me is unfair. the teasing, i mean.
i should not tease a hero.
what?
everybody in the county knows it was you who rescued cole. we are all so proud of you, jesse. and not a single farm's been sold to the railroad since. you are everybody's hero.
i was not the only one risking my neck that day.
so you are saying i should leave you alone and go spend time with jimmy younger?
unfair. you are completely unfair.
you ready to stop loafing around with this young lady and get back to farming?
what do you think?
would you get in the carriage? until ma has you home so she can fuss over you herself, she is going to make me miserable.
what do you say, sir?
go on. you are pretty much all healed up.
you are looking a bit more spry now that somebody --
shut up.  uh, doc, i was wondering if, uh, this evening, i could come by?
you know you are welcome any time!
yesss, but i was thinking, i could come by, and then take zee out. some place near. with other folk. near. here.  but out.
it is fine by me, jesse.
here's liberty's favorite son!  I will never forget what you did, cousin.
zee, I am pleased you came.
you have no shame.
not yet. but I am hoping.
i used to come to this tree when i was a kid and imagine what my life would be like when i got older.
you did not want to farm?
i was thinking more along the lines of being a river pirate.
a river pirate.
arr. hand over your jewels, missy.
thank god you grew out of that.  you did grow out of that, did not you?
mostly. it would be an all right life, for a bachelor.
you planning on being a bachelor your whole life, jesse james?
not if i find the right girl.
and what is this right girl like?
smart. funny. bossy. always makes me think she is two steps ahead of me. and big buck teeth.
where will you find such a girl?
honestly, you would do if only you had the buck teeth.
ahem. "from this doctrine..." no, ah... "from women's eyes this doctrine i derive, they sparkle still like ... shiny... sparkling rocks..."
sparkling rocks?
little ones.
is this one of frank's shakespeare poems you are trying to quote?
yep.
were you planning on kissing me when you finished quoting?
I have been planning on kissin' you for a very long time.
bastards! come back here and face me!
get buckets!
pinkertons. it is the railroad.
ma.
ma! please!
boys?
riders --
we know, ma. now we got to get you to doc mimms.
take care of each other, boys. you say your prayers.
doc mimms will --
shush.
... we could move on. rebuild. make a decent life someplace else.
do not care.
did not think you would.  I am going to go make the coffin.
make a thousand of 'em. still will not be enough by the time I am through.
our place, clell miller's, sammy johnston, the creeders. will hite.
the sheriff says it was a gang of drunk kansas boys.
i say we ride into town and kill us some pinkertons and railroad men.
i like that.
no.
this is not a feud, this is war. they have got more men than we do. we kill detectives, they can replace 'em in a day.
so what do we do, general lee?
just like in the war. harass their supply lines. we kill the railroad's men, they will not care.
but if we take their money and supplies...
exactly.
I will pick the first job! i mean... i know a girl down at the bank. see if she can not get a list of towns where the railroad keeps its money.
perfect, cole.
let's ride.
i am so sorry, jesse.
frank and me have to go away for a while.
you and i, we have started... something, you know?  i do not know what will happen if you do this.
me neither.
let the law --
laws do not touch men like thaddeus rains. only justice does.
whose justice? yours or god's?  when will you stop?
when my name makes them cry in their sleep. when I have brought them to ashes.
the james-younger gang.
sorry.
do not let it happen again.
i know it am not no durned bank holiday!
you are right, sir.
then why can not i go in there?
on account of we are robbing it.
oh. why did not you just say so?
it is a secret.
fine. I will just wait here.
I would appreciate that.
what the --
what is it?
old man tucker is just standing quiet outside the bank.
so?
when have you ever known old man tucker not to be yelling at everybody?
how did it go in there?
fine. how did it go out here?
we are going to have to talk...
where the hell were you?
i had you covered.  from back there.
shit.
i got seven thousand.
i got three.
these are deeds and mortgages of farms the bank was holding for the railroad.
better pass them over here before something happens to 'em.
all right, settle down. all this money am not ours.
well, no, jesse, it was the bank's. that is why we had to go to all that trouble of stealing it.  you explain it to him.
we oughta take some of this, give it to our neighbors in liberty. lot of people hurting up there.
see, frank's being smart about this.
just because he reads all those books and knows all those big words does not make him smart.
uhh, yeah it does.
you stay out of this, bob.
and i planned getting you off the hangman's deck --
and that is why you both lead the gang. two of you went into that bank together, right?
hey! we decide something, that is it! we are in this for the long haul, and this idea of me and jesse's will help give us more places to hide out without worrying about some farmer with a shotgun sneakin' up on us in our sleep. we have got to think --
strategically.
-- exactly. because this is a war.
it is not a bank.
it is better. it is a construction depot. they will have the strongbox and some ammo and explosives for us to take. that way we can take on a bigger job.
and it is guarded by pinkerton detectives.
and i do so want to shoot some pinkerton detectives.
"the fidelity bank and trust was robbed on tuesday by a gang of twenty heavily armed men."
twenty?!
"the outlaws calling themselves the james-younger gang shot their way out of town, wounding the sherriff and three other townsfolk."
hey!
"bank officials estimate the loss at fifty thousand dollars."
they exchanged fire with the pinkerton guards, killing several of them. then they raided the payroll office and blew the tracks for half a mile.
how much did they get from the safe?
thirty-five thousand, sir. coins and currency. and the delay from the miles of destroyed track --
I will kill them for blowing up my railway!
to be precise, they did not blow up the tracks.
then who did?!
we did.
look at this, pinkerton! they got the payroll, and this damage will set construction back two months at least.
not to mention my men who lost their lives.
your men knew the risks.
what is going on here, man?
my professional opinion is that you have managed to piss off the wrong bunch of farm boys this time.
they had to be dealt with!
by burning down their homes?
you would not have done that?
oh no, i would have done that. but i would have made sure i killed them, too.
i want them arrested and hanged!
would a jury around here convict their own? i think not. we are beginning an interesting game here, mr. rains.
this is no game.
I am afraid our adversaries do not agree.
"a rock island and pacific railroad depot was robbed two nights ago just outside st. louis, missouri. the brave and daring james-younger gang was heavily outnumbered by pinkerton detectives, but the city lawmen were no match for the guns of the west."
it is a nice piece of writing.
"the gang made off with thirty-five thousand dollars and also destroyed the thaxton switch construction, meaning that for a few months honest farmers will be able to sleep without fearing the railroad is coming to steal their land!"  who wrote this!? I will see him hanged every tuesday for a month!
oh, that is the best part.
he thinks this is some kind of game!
I am upset too, zee, but jesse and cole know what they are doing. I am sure they will not press their luck.
i do not think it is counterfeit. do you mind if i take a look at all your real bills to compare?
it is the scientific method. it is all the rage.
it is early in the game yet, mr. rains. jesse james and i are just learning how each other moves, feeling out each other's patterns.
I am losing millions of dollars and months of time while you play chess with these farmers!
hardly farmers. I have done some checking. all these were in the war. these men know sabotage, tactics, and have four years of bloody fighting experience behind them. they are disciplined, well-trained and have a charismatic leader. if i were to design the perfect outlaw band, this gang is what i would create.
so you can not tell me anything?
it is going to be a long winter.
jesse, we got to have a word.
sure, cousin.
all the posters and newspapers are calling this bunch the "james-younger gang."
yep.
why are not we the "younger-james gang"? i mean, there is three younger brothers and only two james brothers here.
no, jimmy has a point. the younger-james gang could be confusing.
how?
say we bust into a bank. we yell "we're the younger-james gang!" people are going to be thinking, "the younger james gang? is there an older james gang? how come we never heard of the older james gang?" so people are trying to figure that out instead of raising their arms.
you 'um big lawman?
yeah, injun. what do you want?
great chief of st. louis send me.
the district marshall
of st. louis?
ho-yah. him say tell big lawman in carville that badman jesse james riding toward rising sun, above great river, near eagle rock.
east? east above the river heading for the eagle pass?
ho-yah!
go ahead to the saloon. but do not get too drunk!
me get heap firewater --
pinkerton. it is been eight months. i see robberies. i see hold ups. but i do not see men on the end of nooses.
all of the james gang's encounters have been with local law enforcement who, quite frankly, are no match for this group's cunning.
first of all: you, shut up.  now, you have given me a thousand miles of railroad to cover. every time the james gang strikes, we shift a hundred detectives to that area. but there is just too much open land, too many riverbeds to ride, caves to hide in. this gang operates across four states, often riding a hundred miles between jobs.
i can not believe this.
and there are some towns in missouri where james and his men can walk openly, as heroes.
how can that be?
they donate money to farmers, to churches. rumor has it they gave the sharecroppers of maddox so much money they were able to build a school.
with my money!
we should go burn that school to the ground, sir!
yes, that is the way to win the locals back to our side.
i demand action.
no, you demand results. they are not the same thing. and if you want results, you will let me do my job as i see fit. unless of course,  you want this fool to saddle up and take another run at it?
can not you tell me anything?
it is going to be a long spring.
okay, folks, i think we know how this is going to go...
one false move and I will blow your heads off!
beg pardon?
you heard me, jesse. you know how crazy i get!
we got a problem here, brother?
frankly, yes. I am feeling a little left out.
this is about the "wanted!" posters, is not it.
yes. i am obviously not standing out in people's minds at the robberies.
this is your fault for hogging all the publicity.
hold on, hold on, we all know bob is an important part of the gang.
gents, we are in the middle of something here.
bob's upset.
the posters?
pardon the delay, folks, but we had to get mad bob younger under control!
bob here'll kill a man for sneezing, and he is the best shot in the gang.
this has been a good year.
jesse, we are outlaws.
and we are good at it.
it got to you, did not it. all the killing in the war. you need it now.
you have killed your fair share of men.
if i could go back to farming --
that is a lie. you could have bought a dozen farms with the money we have stolen.
i can not quit and leave you alone. i can not quit until you quit. ma would have wanted it that way.
we are doing this for ma.
maybe it started out that way. but now...
what do you want me to say, frank? i was killing men when i was fifteen. i like getting shot at. i like riding out of town with a posse at my back. this is a helluva better life than farming.
a better life than the one you could have had with zee?
we are drunk.
oh yeah.
just do me a favor. think about what this is costing everybody. not just the railroad.
you okay, jesse?
yeah. hey, are you drinking whisky? you are too young to be drinking whisky.
not too young to shoot a man, not to young to drink.
i guess so.
i was always jealous web mimms got to go off and fight with you and cole. now it is my turn.
jim, you been with a girl yet?
tonight? why, I am just getting ready to turn on the younger charm.
well, not exactly.
you been with a girl ever?
hell yeah! i been with...  uh, not exactly. it is just, i do not want to get one of these paid ladies, you know?
i think so.
you and frank and cole, and even bob, get all these girls because you are good looking and famous. you do not have to pay. they just look at me like I am the baby brother.  do not tell anyone, okay jesse?
i swear.
tell you something else.  i can not drink that good neither. I am going to go outside and throw up.
you do that.
why, yeah.
i hope you do not mind, jesse james told me your name.
oh, you were talking to jesse.
yes, but just so i could find out who you were.
really?
i hope I am not being too forward.
not at all.
i just though you were awful cute.
thank you, miss -- ?
lyla devereux.
gosh, that is a pretty name. buy you a drink?
could we go upstairs and talk? it is so loud down here.
why do not we get a bottle of sherry to sip while we talk?
that is so gentlemanly of you.
devereux. my brother cole dated a european girl once.
really?
do not talk about it much, though.
the final route for the railroad is complete.
i look forward to seeing it.
parker.
sir?
what is that?
what, sir?
that.
oh, that. I will let jenkins explain.
so he is won.
no.
every three months, the james gang circles back to the vicinity of liberty, missouri. they always pull a job right before they return, probably to have extra money to give family and friends.
in english, pinkerton.
there are only four banks within that travel radius which they have not robbed.
can you put men at all four?
no need. i have another tool at my disposal which will narrow it down to one bank.
what is that?
why, their intense hatred of you, of course.
the things a fella has to do to get a little respect around here...
you are a fine figure of a man.
listen, jesse, we have got a problem.  it is cole.
he is been full of vinegar lately.
he is planning a job.
what?
listen, he is my brother and i do not want to start trouble...
tell me.
it will be the biggest score yet.
what will be?
smells funny, it being mentioned in the paper.
if you would read about it first, you would have no problems.
what are you saying?
I have robbed just as many banks as you have! i know this town, and i know this bank, and i say it is an easy job.
you are forgetting who is in charge --
jesse.
oh, you are in charge? we am not partners any more, jesse? you tell cole younger where and when to ride?
cole, he did not mean that.
you taking sides against me, now, frank?
no, i --
that is what the newspapers say. were not for jesse james, this gang would not be able to find a goat's ass with a stick.
what?
beautiful.
now the one time one of us comes up with an idea --
a bad idea.
i got us through the war all right.
and almost got hanged in peacetime.
that is it.
this is healing?
sometimes a wound will kill.
now you tell us.
I am the better soldier, jesse.
and I am the better outlaw.
what about that rock island bastard?
it is his money.  he is putting up the payroll out of his own fortune. you do want to hurt thaddeus rains, do not you jesse?
still smells fishy.
then let me run the show, general lee.
fine. we hit this bank.
you will be smiling once you have got all that money to spend, cousin.  cole younger's going to make everybody rich!
dammit!
a trap.
another dozen out back.
they gonna rush us?
they are just insurance in case we run.
they are all pinned down. can not even get to the door.
got any ideas, little brother?
okay, you are going to rest here.
clell, tom, go get doc mimms in liberty!
bob, rip up some bandages.
pass me some whisky.
... too young for whisky...
this time we will make an exception.
jesse, you explain to lyla. my girl, you know, from that time...
you are going to tell her when you are resting up in bed with her, jimmy.
shoulda learned with web. made it look fun, made it look like an adventure. got web killed. now jim.
jim was old enough...
he was a boy riding with the most famous outlaws in the west. how was he supposed to say no to that?
railroad burned him out too. you could not have stopped him.
you are a piss-poor liar for the smartest man i know.
yeah.
a war against the railroad. what the hell were we thinking?
I am sure it seemed like a good idea at the time.
we will make them pay for this.
I am out.
what?! we follow you for a year, and now that our blood's been spilled, you are going to quit?!
who is next? you? me? bob?
zee.
jesse. what are you thinking? there are bounty hunters and lawmen all over this county!
i had to see you. I am getting married.
i do not understand.
she is the most wonderful woman in the world. can not get her out of my mind.
that's... wonderful. it is just... i thought...
she is beautiful. smart. and has the biggest... buck teeth in all of missouri.
i would never have imagined us in a place like this.
that is why i picked it. we can start a whole new life down here.
are you going to be happy here, mr. james? without all that excitement?
I have got you. you keep me busy. i figure we will get over to the hotel... get checked in, cleaned up... then I would like to do something I have been thinking about for a long time.
now wait a minute. there are certain things that have to wait until after the wedding.
this is unusual. most of our marriages are members of the congregation.
you do not think god'll mind, do you?
the lord is remarkably tolerant of the charitable.  "jesse woodson james." jesse james? the jesse james?
i could have lied i suppose, but i want this marriage to be legal. i just want you to know, I am trying to start a new life here. I am depending on your...
discretion? sir, i am a man of the cloth.
thank you.
who needs to repair a leaky church roof.
now let's have a drink.
right here in church?
communion.
the safe. now.
of course!  uh, sir?
what?
where is jesse james?
this here is the younger gang!
open the damn safe!
all right, all right.  jesse james never yelled at folk...
this is the best score yet.
it is still taking too long. the people used to snap to.
that was because of... the reputation the gang had.
as long as people think jesse's still riding, we will never get the respect we deserve.
cole, we are outlaws. not exactly the most respectable job, if you know what i mean.
leave me alone, bob.
hmm.
"hmm" what?
"but the life of the james gang was not all robbing and shooting and killing, for these young missouri bucks had a taste for the ladies... especially the handsome and charismatic jesse james."
i beg your pardon?
"blazing guns of the west. true stories of jesse james." only a dime in the hotel lobby.
let me see that.
oh, I am not finished.  "when he sauntered into a saloon, his spurs jangling and his pockets full of gold, the ladies flocked around him like flies to a candied apple."  as i said. hmm.
now, sweetie, you all would not go believing one of them silly dime novels, would you?
jesse, have you ever noticed that when you are trying to charm your way out of trouble, your accent gets all farm boy?
aw, shucks, ma'am...
stop it. this is just sad.
swimming. swimming is good.
do not turn around.
what?
if you do not see it, it is not real...
how did they --
what have you done?
i am not done --
what have you done?!
bob. i didn't...
swear.
i swear --
swear on jimmy's grave.
I am sorry, cole.
you are just upset about jesse. we all are.
we are moving you tomorrow.
but i like the presidential suite.
oh, it is a similar room. but the hotel is in washington d.c. you are not going to get a fair trial down here, in front of a jury of jesse james sympathizers.
so I will get a fair trial in front of a jury bought off by thaddeus rains?
that is the idea.
did you order our houses burned down?
not that day. i am guilty of many things, but that was mr. thaddeus rains and parker, that day.
you almost ended my career before it began.
pity.
how did you spot the ambush in torrell?
last february?
mmm.
you had all those cattle there, so I would think the extra men were in town from the cattle drive?
yes?
the cows had a brand from a farm just five miles out of town.
damn.
almost got me in billings. i saw you there, shooting at me.
i went myself to oversee the operation. did not help much.
no, that one was close. a couple fellas quit after that one.
oh. that is nice to know.  we are going to hang you, you know.
i figured.
was it worth it?
should have just killed thaddeus rains and been done with it.
that is what i would have done.
I am not hanged yet.
you cocky little bastard.
ahh, you will miss me.
no, I will hang you.  but i may miss you just a bit.
this is him.
i remember you.
how did you know?
not such a menace now, is he, pinkerton?
what?
you, ya barrel of pork lard. here piggy piggy!
what you sayin' boy?
i think i recognize you.
how?
i think i saw you leavin' by the front door just as i was coming in the back.
you shut up now, boy.
no, really. you are wife said she needed some help, seeing as you were so fat you could not find your --
what the hell is that sound?
vengeance.
there is only four of them...
move you fools!
that was for my ma. now this is for everybody else.
he is too important, james.  they will set the army on you. you and your wife.
the railroad has no business in tennessee. therefore i have no interest in the state of tennessee.
thanks.
I would just as soon kill you, jesse james. but chasing you takes up too much of my time.
fair enough.
you get arrested again, I will kill you.
yes ma'am.
i can not believe i had to blow up a train for you.
you are a hell of a woman.
do not swear.
yes ma'am.
missed you, cousin.
missed you too, cousin.
you know, you gettin' caught, right after leaving us, some people thought --
pff. all we been through, the thought never crossed my mind.
things changed when you quit the gang. for example, I am now the one who says "let's ride."
he is not bad at it.
it is tougher than it looks.
where did you get all these riders?
we didn't. zerelda did. turns out your wife makes a hell of an outlaw.
I will meet you down there in a few weeks.
see you soon. oh, and i appreciate the distraction back there.
hell, they hardly even noticed us.
tennessee?
I will explain on the way.
y'know, uncle frank...
yeah, jimmy?
...every time you tell that story, you stop there. that is not how it ended. i was five when my dad got shot.
i know. but that is how it should have ended. your dad and mom, riding off into a new life, growing old together, happy.
allow a man his version of the past. when you get to be my age, you have got enough painful memories, you are allowed to soften a few of the edges up.
sounds like he was a hell of a man.
that he was.
they are making him a hero now.
saved a lot of folk from the railroad.
but he killed a lot of men, too.
can not argue that.
so what was he?
i think... he was just a real interestin' fella to have around.
uncle frank?
yeah jimmy?
how much of that story is true?
everything but the boring parts.
