i feel...isolated.  different.  I have got abandonment issues.  my father flew away when i was just a larva. my mother did not have much time for me...when you have five million siblings, it is difficult to get attention.  i feel physically inadequate -- I have never been able to lift more than ten times my own weight.  sometimes i think I am just not cut out to be a worker.  but i do not have any other options.  i was assigned to trade school when i was just a grub.  the whole system just...makes me feel...insignificant.
terrific!  you should feel insignificant!
...i should?
yes!!!  you know, people ask me, "doctor, why are you always happy?" and i tell them it is mind over matter.  i do not mind that i do not matter!  do you get it?  do you get it?
ask me why we are so successful.
why are we so successful?
I am glad you asked me that question!
what do you see out there?
...ants...
right!  ants!  millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together!
you see?  being an ant is being able to say, "hey -- i'm meaningless, you're meaningless."
but -- but I have always felt life was about finding meaning...and then sharing it with someone special, someone you love.
sorry azteca.  here you go, fellas! fresh dirt!  alley oop!  should not we be wearing gloves?  i mean this dirt is very...dirty. does not anyone think of hygiene?  boy am i hungry.  I am so hungry I am seeing double.  it looks like there is two million ants in here.  when is lunch?  tomorrow, or the day after?
z, old pal...  shut up!!!  it is bad enough there is a food shortage without you complaining about it every day.
the squeaky wheel gets the oil.
no, z.  the squeaky wheel gets thrown away, alright?  you are a good ant, z, even though you are a pain in my rear- segment.  i do not wanna see anything happen to you.  so quit mouthing off, before you get in trouble.
thank goodness.  breaktime.
break's over.
this colony needs another tunnel like a hole in the ground.  why are we even digging this thing?
who cares, z.  all i know is, we got to dig.  we are not the ones in charge.
general, the severe food shortage that faces the colony...pains me. the thought of any of my children going hungry...  who is the cutest widdle worker?  you are!  yes, you!  do not forget to brush your teeth!  ship 'er out.  what steps are you taking to remedy the situation?
we are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory...
yes, what else?
please do not worry, your majesty. leave the worrying to me.  as you know, I am not an ant of half- measures.  i do not pussyfoot around. this crisis is my number one priority, and i promise you it is being dealt with swiftly, and decisively.
no snacking between meals!  off you go!  now -- what were we saying?
i do not recollect, your majesty. will that be all?
yes, general formica.  carry on, my good man!  i do not know what we would do without you.
princess bala, sir.  your fiancee.
princess!  you look -- outstanding. is there anything i can do for you?
bala has always been a hopeless romantic, general.
it is just that -- well, I am honored that you selected me, and everything, i just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if -- we had a conversation?
conversation...yes...well...  was not she briefed?
look, general!  a darling baby soldier!  do not try to be a hero!  just make sure you come back in one piece!  next!
I will take your suggestion under advisement, princess.  in the meanwhile --
general -- we have to talk sometime!
very well.  carpenter, is there a convenient time to talk vis-a-vis: relationship?
actually, sir, we are ahead of schedule.  we have thirty-six seconds available right now.
outstanding.  princess...?
so, um...how was your day?  what did you do?
well...  i declared war!
oh...and i was afraid we had nothing in common...
fourteen-fifty hours, sir.
duty calls!
i felt the same way before i got married.  confused.  scared.
you did?
yes -- but i did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings.  the wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged.  even marriage.  you are lucky -- general formica is a paragon of anthood.
yes...he's wonderful...
the club's so stuffy.  i want to try someplace different.
there is not anyplace else --  except the worker bar.
the worker bar!  yes!  that is where i want to go!
we declared war again?  are you scared?
I will be back.
did you see that?  how he gave you the beers, not me?  I am telling you, he is got something against workers.
i do not know what you are talking about, z.
come on -- everybody dumps on us workers.  you soldiers get all the glory.  plus you get to go out into the world, meet interesting insects, and kill them.
yeah, but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes.
weaver, they are career girls. they are obsessed with digging.  no, I will probably never meet the girl for me.
who said there was a girl for you? i was talking about a girl for me.  do not you want your aphid beer?
i can not help it.  i have a thing about drinking from the anus of another creature.  call me crazy.
z, we have known each other a long time, right?
of course.  you were born two seconds after me.
and all the time I have known you, you have been grumping and groaning. you should quit making waves.  go with the flow.
weaver, I am an insect, not a liquid.
hey, did you hear what he said?!
poor guy's had one too many scouting missions.
we should not be doing this -- it is not proper!
I am the princess, are not i?
of course --
and do princesses do improper things?
of course not --
then if i go to the worker bar, it is not improper.  anyway, do not worry. no one will recognize us in our disguises.
time to cut a rug, z!
I am not in the mood.  even when they are off work, they follow orders.
well, you just sit here and be a party-pooper.
what a bunch of losers.  mindless zombies capitulating to an oppressive system --
wanna dance?
so uh -- how come i have not seen you around here before?
i work in the palace, i do not get out much.
the palace, hunh?  i bet those royals really live it up.  of course they are all a little, you know, from inbreeding --
what?
are you sure this is a real dance?
well, actually, uh -- I am sort of making it up --
really?
why should everyone dance the same way?  it is as exciting as watching fungus grow.
you are right!
you -- you think I am right?
why can not i just do whatever i want to do?  why can not i just go wild?! yahoo!
you watch yours, soldier, or my worker friend will beat you up!
oh, that is okay, I will let him off this time.  are you crazy?  this guy's built like a pebble!  you know they do great prosthetic antennas nowadays --
are not you going to stand up for yourself?
uh oh.  goodbye!  gotta run!
wait!  when can i see you again?
let me think.  hmmnn...  never.  bye!
get real, z!  she just dropped the scarf by accident!
are you kidding?  there were sparks between us!  this scarf is a sign!
it is a sign that you are crazy!  do you know what the penalty for impersonating a soldier is?
what is going to go wrong?!  i take your place for the royal inspection.  bala comes strolling down the line, she sees me -- bingo!  love is rekindled, and she takes me up to the palace for a little...  tea and crumpets... and you take your place again, and go march around to your heart's content!
you have to help me.  please, weaver. think of all the things I have done for you!
i can not think of any.
well I am going to start doing things for you...
will you introduce me to some worker girls?
you bet!  they will really go for a sensitive guy like you!
maybe I will get lucky.  you know, z, i would not do this for anyone but you...
wear this.
you are a real buddy.
yeah, i know.
what do i do?
do not tell anyone you are a worker. follow that column over there.  and come right back after the inspection!
lays it on a little thick, does not he?  if you ask me, he is one giant bore.
now I have heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a food shortage.  well you boys are going to be taken care of.  but in the meantime we are going to eat the enemy for breakfast, we are going to eat the enemy for lunch, and we are going to eat the enemy for dinner!
geez, and i forgot my toothbrush.
dammit, I am proud to be an ant.  and i know each and every one of you boys will do your duty.  dismissed.
who is that idiot?
darling, you must encourage the troops -- wave!
you new, kid?
i just joined up.  but I am quitting! i got a trial membership!
trial membership?  kid, when you join this ant's army, you are in for the full hitch.
you just stick by old barbatus. he will watch out for you.  whatsamatter, kid?  leave a girl behind?
yeah.  well -- no.  she is kind of playing hard to get.  as a matter of fact, she is playing completely unattainable.  so, what is on the schedule?  a brisk walk?  a foraging expedition?
no -- we are going to attack the termites!
attack?  but -- i hate attacking! it is so hostile!
well, what exactly does our platoon do?  serve beverages?  process paperwork?
our platoon has the best assignment of all.  we are the first into battle!
so we are going back for more armor, right?  i mean, these guys are from outer space, how are we supposed to beat them?!
superior numbers, kid!
do not be scared, kid.  barbatus's got yer back.
maybe they went out for the evening. let's leave them a message and head home.
barbatus!  you -- you saved my life!
do not get all sappy about it!
z!  over here!
barbatus?
barbatus!
be honest, kid -- am i hurt bad?
no, no, you're...lookin' good. you have got good color in your cheeks.
no -- i can see it in your eyes.  I am a goner.  it is alright, z.  in this ant's army, a soldier's life am not worth a sack of fungus.  i can not feel my legs...
hang in there, buddy!  you can make it!  just -- take deep breaths, I will try and find your body -- it is got to be around here somewhere!
i wonder...what...was it all...for...
barbatus, hang on -- barbatus!!
do not make my mistake, kid... don't...be a grunt...your whole life...
hey, slow it down, big boy.  you are making the rest of us look bad...how come i have not seen you around here before?
I am new...i was born yesterday.
tell me about it.
nobody told me digging was so much fun!  you pick up the dirt, you move it, you pick it up again, you move it again -- lots of repetitions, you exercise the forceps, and the pincers --
mmm, yes, i see what you mean...
i do not know what came over me, talking back like that.  i must be going crazy...
sorry i got you in trouble.  but listen, you can share my rations.
are you asking me out to dinner?
no -- i mean yes -- i mean -- if you do not have other plans.
I will make myself available...listen, better watch out with the backtalk.  i do not know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me.  I am afraid he got... downsized.
no -- you -- you do not understand!
damn, I am proud of you, boy.  i wish i had a hundred ants of your caliber. the world would tremble.  now, time for some r and r.  you are invited to the royal victory party!
royal victory party?  will...will princess bala be there?
of course.  the entire royal family will be there to honor you.
one to nothing!
wait a minute, that is no soldier -- that is z!
z?  our z?  the little guy made it!
son, you are an ant after my own heart.  a warrior.  an ant that looks death right in the face and laughs.
well, i generally just make belittling comments and snicker behind death's back.  so, tell me, fellow war-monger...do you think princess bala likes men in uniform?
well she better -- she is engaged to one.  me!
engaged?  as in you are getting married?
affirmative.
so...you two are in love?
in love?  I am just a plain old soldier at heart.  I will tell you what i love -- the field -- blood -- death -- orders...and the company of other warriors.
wow, what a spread -- you know, there is a food shortage in the rest of the colony.
yes, and do you know why there is a food shortage?
...not enough food?
negatory.  too many ants.  and while we soldiers go out there, and fight, and bleed, and die for the colony, the namby-pamby workers live it up back home.
well i, i do not think "living it up" is the right term -- how about "working themselves to death"?
i tell you son, sometimes, at night, i see myself in battle, fighting a horrible, faceless enemy, with the future of our whole species at stake. and always, the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other's heart...
oh, hey, that is great, i think i see an old war buddy over there, it is been fun chatting.  good luck with the hallucinations.
you are the hero of the recent termite campaign, are not you?
well, if single-handedly vanquishing the enemy and slaughtering a whole nestful of termites makes someone a hero, yes i am.
and you are...?
I am princess bala.
ah, yes.  well, charmed, I am sure.  so, princess, have you ever danced with a hero?
yes.
oh...oh well then, one more will not matter.
all these parties are so marvellously alike.
they should be...  but there is something funny about that soldier.
may i cut in?
oh, of course --
no, general.  I am dancing with the war hero.
uh, sorry, general, i...i've always had this animal magnetism, it --
you dance...
divinely?
no weirdly...you remind me of someone...
he was a worker.  i danced with him at a worker's bar just the other day. I am not shocking you, am i?
no...as a matter of fact...
oh my god, it is you!  you are a worker!!!  a filthy, stupid, disgusting worker!
gee, uh, could you say it a little louder, i think there are some ants in the next colony who did not hear you.
i can not dance with a worker!
that is not what you said the other night --
quiet -- sshhh!!
-- at the worker bar!  you were pretty hot to trot then!
sshh!!!  sshh!!!
what is this?  a worker has been masquerading as a war hero?!
well it was not a masquerade, really, it was more what I would call a clever ruse --
arrest him!
can not we all settle this like adults -- we are not larvae anymore --
what was that thing?
how should i know?
i order you to find out where we are!
alright, alright, I will try to get directions from one of the locals.
excuse me, i --  pardon me --  and they call them social insects.
climb up that tree and get a better view!
I have been kidnapped by the village idiot.
who is the bigger idiot -- the idiot who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who lets herself get kidnapped by the idiot?
how dare you speak to me like that? I am the princess!
theoretically, yes.  but is the monarchical hierarchy applicable without the underlying social structure to support it?
of course!  it defines society!  to deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself!
but can there be a society composed of just two ants?
no!  there is no such thing as "just two ants."  you never see just two ants -- you see a million ants!
look around, sweetheart.
i -- hate -- you.
well i guess that makes us even.
ha!  do not make me laugh.  you are crazy about me!  that is why you lied and cheated to get near me!
oh come on, you're the one who came after me -- the swarthy, earthy, sensual worker!
i was slumming it!  i danced with you because you were the most pathetic specimen in the place!
is that the same standard you used to choose general formica?
i didn't choose him.  what kind  of idiot would...  ...choose who she wanted to marry?
now, worker, you shall take me back to the colony, and have your head cut off and stuck on a sharp pole!
well, that is an appealing offer, but...considering the options...  you go back.  me, I am going to insectopia.
insectopia?  you stupid worker, that is just a fairy tale!
yeah, well i have it on a reliable source...  that it exists.  now you follow the yellow egg...  that direction.
worker!  come back here now!
I have got a name.  it is z.
that is not a name!  that is just a letter!
you know, you are not just workers -- you can be whatever you want to be! look at z!  he started as a worker -- then he became a soldier!
that is right!  he slaughtered hundreds of termites single-handedly!
well, because he is more than a worker...he's a...what did he call it, azteca...
invisible!
no -- an individual!
someone who follows his heart!
right...because every ant's important!
water...water...
water...water -- oh, you already said that.
my skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking...i wish I would never met you, you ruined my life.
i ruined your life?  look, i was perfectly happy until i met you -- alright, i was miserable, but i was happily miserable.
we are going to die!
come on -- it is gone!  what are the chances of that happening again?
why did not i listen to my mother ...why'd i have to go looking for trouble? any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position...what's wrong with me?
want a list?
wait, i hear something!
this lake is huge!  and so close to the colony!  think of the vacation potential!
cut me down a soft leaf so i can take a nap.
listen, "princess", you can not order me around.  out here, you are not the boss anymore -- out here, you are just --
out here I am just what?
hlllllllp!
stop fooling around in there.
princess, has it ever occurred to you that they are not going to rescue you?
general formica will not let me die out here.  I am his fiancee.
look.  how many other princesses are there?
five thousand three hundred and ninety -- no.  about five thousand four hundred by now.
and only you can become a queen?
well...no, but --
so what makes you so special?
well...i am the oldest.
dammit, this tunnel is priority a-1! we can not afford any delays on this project!
I have never seen anything like it, general, they are they're...well, look!
notice the big one, holding hands with the female?
well, uh, who notices workers, sir?
no one should have to.  have him brought to me.
so this z...he fancies himself an individual?
yeah...i mean...well...i do not know, really, sir.
well now you have not fallen for this silly idea of individuality, have you?
oh, no, sir!
good.  you are a good soldier.
thank you, sir.
so tell me.  where is z?
i...i have no idea, sir.
okay, son.
we know what makes an ant colony strong, do not we?  we know that no ant can be an individual.  no single ant matters, right?
that is correct, sir!
not that one.  or that one.
no, sir!
what do we have on this "insectopia"?
scattered reports, sir.  rumors. nothing reliable.
desperate times call for desperate measures.  get me ant team six.
ant team six...
face it, z, we are lost!  we must have walked halfway across the world by now!  how did i get into this mess...
come on...tell me there was not just a little...something between us that first night at the bar.  the night we danced.
what difference does it make...we're both going to starve to death, or get squished, or set on fire...
we have found it!  insectopia!  look at all this food'
you were right...you were right!  z, it is beautiful!
let's dig in!
z...if we do not make it...i just want you to know....
yes?
this is all your fault!!!
come on, z.
forget it.  you go ahead, i give up. i...i do not know what i was thinking. "insectopia".
so...you never did tell me...what made you come out to the worker bar that night?
just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, i guess.
well, "trouble" is my middle name. actually, my  middle name is .985, but i do not tell people.  hey, bala, i...i actually have something of yours...you left it at the bar that night.
sorry, it is been through a war, not to mention everything else...
you held onto this all that time?
well, i...i know it is a little strange, but...i thought it might come in handy if i...needed a scarf someday.  well, to be honest, i just liked having it.
he's...he's dead.  you do not have to look for him anymore.  he was eaten by a praying mantis.
it is a shame he died prematurely...i was hoping to kill him myself.
well you will never be able to hurt him where he is now.  i miss him already.
you miss him?  why?
because...because he is twice the ant that you are.  i could never go through with marrying you.  I am -- I am an individual, and when i get married, it will be to someone i choose.
why do they have you tied up here?
there is something going on, z --
bala, that -- that lake we found -- i think the tunnel's right underneath it!  -- formica's going to flood the colony!!!  that is what he meant when said there were too many ants!
oh no...
z!  what are you doing?
i know it is crazy, but -- i can not just leave.  do not argue with me.  if I have learned anything, it is that the problems of two people do not add up to a hill of ants in this world.  or beans.  something like that.  anyway, I have got to warn the others.
your majesty, I am afraid matters of state keep me from attending the ceremony.
but general -- this tunnel is your baby!  you are sure you can not stay ?
'fraid not, your majesty.  goodbye, your majesty.
very well, general -- i know you -- all work and no play!
alright, let's move out!
bala!
mom!
yeah, but i hate drowning more!  now dig!
you heard the ant -- dig!!!
what are you doing?!  attack!!  come on, you yellow-bellies!  do not just stand there, carpenter! make an example of yourself!
uh, actually, we are outnumbered sir...
i mean, I have got the whole package, right?  a great life, a beautiful wife, and a few kids.
a few?
