how about a drink ?
sure, thanks.
winning the war by yourself.
part.
which part is that ?
my part.  beer, with ice and water.
that is good gin.
I am sure it is, but i had hepatitis.
delta ?
no.
north ?
yeah. way north.
what unit were you with ?
none.
rangers, eh?
sort of.
were you longe range recon --
no -- i worked too far north for lrrp.
that is quite an array of ribbons...
let's talk about you.
i was an fo for the 25th.
tracks ?
yeah.
fat. that is real fat.
sometimes.
at least you always have enough water. how many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
thirty -- sometimes fifty.
you know, i can remember once, getting back below the dmz -- and the first americans we ran into were a track squadron. i just could not believe how much water they had. we would been chewing bamboo shoots for almost a week, and before that, for two weeks, we would been drinking anything -- rain water, river shit, stuff right out of the paddies. and there were these guys standing by their trucks spilling water all over. i could have killed them.  i swear to god i would have, too, if ...
i did not know we had units up there in north vietnam.
we do.
how long were you up there ?
a long time.
a year ? waiter another beer.
i go up on missions. listen captain, buy me all the beer you want, but you better tell that asshole over there you are not going to find out anymore about me.
what do you want ?
if you are b.l. willard, 4th recon group, we would like you to come with us.
whose orders ?
headquarters 11 corps -- 405th a.s.a battalion -- s-2 -- com-sec -- intelligence -- nha trang.
who are you ?
captain b.l. willard, g-4 headquarters, reporting as ordered, sir.
okay, willard, sit down.
no, sir.
this gentleman or myself ?
no, sir.
i believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in kontum, is that right ?
i am not presently disposed to discuss that, sir.
you know much about about special forces; green berets, captain ?
I have worked with them on occasions and i saw the movie , sir.
yeah.
he is commanding the detachment at nu mung ba.
i only met kurtz once.
would he remember you ?
maybe.
you did not like him.
anyone got a cigarette.
i thought he was a lame.
a lame ?
this is years ago, before he joined special forces, i guess. we had an argument.
about what ?
i do not know. he was a lame, that is all.
but why ?
he could not get through a sentence without all these big words; about why we kill.
well, he is killing now.
maybe.
what does that mean ?
maybe it is not kurtz. i do not believe he is capable of that. i just do not believe it.
our recon flight ?
ours.
touchy.
you can see, of course, the implications, if any of this -- even rumours leaked out.
you want me to clean it up -- simple and quiet.
exactly -- you will go up the nung river in a navy p.b.r. -- appear at nu mung ba as if by accident, re-establish your acquintance with colonel kurtz, find out what is happened -- and why. then terminate his command.
terminate ?
terminate with extreme prejudice.
i met the p.b.r. crew; they were pretty much all kids, except for phillips, the chief -- gunner's mate third class l. johnson -- lance johnson; gunner's mate third class j. hicks -- the chef -- radio operator second class t. miller; they called him mr. clean.
chief, try to keep out of where we are going -- why we are goin' and what is going to be the big surprise.
all right with me, i used to drive a taxi.
let's go.
the delta closes off to us about ten  miles out of hau fat. we will be able to pick up some supplies -- bit i think there are only two points we can draw enough water to get into the nung river. it is all charlie's turf from there on out.
we are going to have some help to get in the river. you know these waters, chief ?
'bout six months ago i took a man up to lo mung bridge. he was regular army too. shot himself in the head. i brought his body back down.
shot himself. what for ?
beats me -- the sun was too much for him, or the mud. who knows ?
arch light.
i hate that -- every time i hear that noise something terrible happens.
anybody see some smoke ?
too far inland.
i do not know anything about these papers, sir.
they are in order -- it is perfectly clean -- just check with comsec- intel like i said.
well, you know i do not have the priority to do that, sir. it says here not to contact com-sec- int. who is your commanding officer ?
right now -- i am.
well who the hell verifies that ?
i do.
what show ?
big show in the parade grounds this noon -- some boss stuff --
this -- bob hope or the like --
no sir, i think -- this'll be a little bit different --
it is really too much -- i mean I have collected every picture of her since she was miss december.
yeah -- you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the delta.
what cat  ?
one that went up for murder -- he was an army sergeant.
i never heard about that.
yeah -- he really dug his playboy mag, man -- i mean like he was there when it arrived -- he just knew.
so what happened ?
he was working a.r.v.n. patrols and had one a them little cocky gook asshole lieutenants -- anyhow, the lieutenant took his new playboy one day, sat on the end of the dock, and would not give it back.
yeah -- typical a.r.v.n.
then went too far -- he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold. poking pins in her an' all that. sergeant says, do not do her like that. you leave your shitty little hands off that girl. gook lieutenant says fuck you in vietnamese -- sergeant says, do not do that again. you will wish you hadn't. then he stood up, flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the playboy mag. man, it blew him clean off the dock -- hell, just the magazine was floatin' there all full of holes.
they nail him for it bad ?
he is in the l.b.j. -- did not give him no medals or nothing --
smoke !
where ?
yeah -- fishing village -- helicopters over there. hueys, lots of 'em.
first air cavalry. they are the ones going to get us into the river.
captain b-l. willard, sir -- 4th recon group -- i carry priority papers from com-sec intelligence 11 corp -- i believe you understand the nature of my mission.
yeah -- na trang told me to expect you -- we will see what we can do. just stay out of my way till this is done, captain.
what is your name, sailor ?
gunner's mate, third class -- l. johnson, sir.
lance johnson? the surfer?
that is right, sir.
it is an honor to meet you lance. I have admired your nose-riding for years -- i like your cutback, too. i think you have the best cutback there is.
thank you, sir.
you can cut out the sir, lance -- I am bill kilgore -- I am a goofy foot.
my orders are from com-sec intel -- b.l. willard, 4th recon --
just hold up a second, captain -- I will get to you soon enough -- we have got things to do here.
where have you been riding, lance?
i have not surfed since i got here.
that is terrible -- we will change that -- I would like to see you work -- I have always liked your cutback; got a hell of a left turn, too.
why the hell you wanna go up to nu mung ba for?
i got bored in saigon.
what is the furthest you been in?
haiphong.
haiphong? shit, you jump in ?
no. walked.
what did you do for supplies?
mercenaries -- agents, traitors -- they put out caches.
can you trust them?
no. they put out two or three for every one i needed. when you get to the one you will use, you just stake it out. if something feels wrong, you just pass it up. on one mission, i had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate bars.
nu mung ba. last i heard, walter kurtz commanded a green beret detachment at nu mung ba.
when did you hear?
'bout a year ago? is kurtz still alive?
who knows.
seems to me he got himself fragged. i heard some grunt rolled a grenade in his tent. maybe a rumor. helluva man -- remarkable officer. walter kurtz woulda been a general some day. general of the army. shit, head of the joint chiefs of staff. did you knew kurtz?
i met him.
do not you agree?
he musta changed !  i got to get into the nung river, here or here.
that village you are pointing at is kinda hairy.
hairy ?
i mean it is hairy -- they got some pretty heavy ordnance, boy -- I have lost a few recon ships in there now and again.
so? i heard you had a good bunch of killers here.
and i do not intend to get some of them chewed up just to get your tub put in the mouth of the goddman nung river. you say you do not know kurtz?
i met him.
you talk like him. i do not mind taking casualties, captain, but i like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit -- ten cong to one.
you will find enough cong up there.
what about this point here?
mike, you know anything about the point at vin drip drop?
boss left.
what do you mean?
it is really long left slide, breaks on the short side of the point -- catches a south swell.
why the hell did not you tell me about that place -- a good left.  there are not any good left slides in this whole, shitty country. it is all goddamn beach break.
it is hairy ,though. that is where we lost mcdonnel -- they shot the hell out of us. it is charlie's point.
how big it is?
six to eight feet.
we could go in tomorrow at dawn -- there is always off-shore wind in the morning.
the draft of that river might be too shallow on the point.
we will come in low out of the rising sun -- we will put on the music about a mile out.
music?
yeah. classical stuff -- scares the hell out of the slopes -- the boys love it.
big duke six to hell's angels four -- bring it in on along tree line and huts.
hell's angels four to big duke six -- we will need green smoke -- suggest you have the fac mark it.
have not got time, hell's angels -- lay it right up the tree line.
fucking savages.
who?
the enemy. who else?
this is baker delta four -- captain hit bad -- need dust-off. receiving heavy automatic weapons fire from huts about thirty yards to our left.
big duke six to baker delta four -- hold -- we are right over you.
sonuvabitch -- anybody hurt?
automatic weapons flashes along those trees -- probably eleven millimeter guns and ak-47's.
the trees, eh...
eagle thrust four -- big duke six. join me in sparaying some trees.
affirmative, big duke six -- we are even got some rockets left.
take her in low, lieutenant.
that is 27, sir.
anyone got a card?
good swell.
what, sir?
i said it is a good swell -- hell of a good swell 'bout six feet. let's get a look at it.
I am waiting for the fucking boat, colonel.
it will get here, soldier.
change.
wh -- what?
change -- get out there -- i want'a see if it is ridable -- change.
it is still pretty hairy, sir.
you want'a surf, soldier?
you think that section on the point is ridable, lance?
i think we ought to wait for the tide to come in.
they far enough?
sure -- fine --
maybe he will get tubed.
what?
maybe he will get inside the tube -- where -- where they can not see him.
what is that?
just something i read in the free press.
forget that extra drum -- it is too damn hot.
clear on starboard -- where is lance an' the captain?
i saw that colonel's huey on the point --
he will kill us.
he can not kill us.  we are on his side.
you smell that.  you smell that?
what?
napalm, boy -- nothing else in the world smells like that --
you know, some day this war's going to end..
yes, i know.
the wind --
what?
it is going to blow this place out. it is going to ruin it ...
the kid can not ride sloppy waves.
yeah, I am an artist, goddamit !
yeah -- yeah, i can understand how you feel.
are you finished surfing?
yeah... thanks.
want to say goodbye to the colonel?
nah.
then let's get the hell out of here.
no -- no, captain.
which one's the colonel's?
the yater -- the clear one with the thin stringer.
this one , lance?
yeah, jesus christ !
maybe we better stay in under the trees till dark -- we got his yater.
he did not look like he would take that sitting down.
you hear it again?
no -- i do not think so. but it will be back. they were circling. it will be back.
you think he would of shot us?
when?
any time -- us -- americans.
i do not think he would of shot us on the beach but -- he would of shot us if he saw me taking the board --
a yater spoon is hard to get -- especially here.
he is a man who knows what he wants -- he does know what he wants.
can i go get those mangos now?
I will go with you in a while -- judt hold tight awhile --
captain -- that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff?
sure.
and you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
it is a feeling you get in the jungle. when you get good, you can find a track and tell not only how many they are, but their morale, how far they are going, whether they are near their camp, the weapons they are carrying.
jesus -- that guy's too damn much.
i wonder if that was the same copter.
yeah, chef -- go ahead -- take lance with you --
I will go with him --
chef.
yes, sir --
why they call you that?
call me what, sir?
chef -- is that 'cause you like mangoes an' stuff?
no, sir -- I am a real chef, sir -- I am a sauciere --
a sauciere --
that is right, sir -- i come from new orleans -- i was raised to be a sauciere.. a great sauciere. we specialize in sauces; my whole family. it is what we do. i was supposed to go to paris and study at the escoffier school; i was saving the money. they called me for my physical so i figured the navy had better food.
what are you doing out here?
cook school -- that did it.
how?
they lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib -- magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it -- boiling. i looked in, an' it was turning gray. i could not stand it. i went into radio school.
what is this tiger shit?
no shit... i think i shot the hell out of him.
you think?
i was not looking.. i was running.
you forgot the mangoes, did not you?
mangoes? there as a fucking tiger in the woods -- i could have been eaten alive. I am never going into that jungle again. i got to remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat.
soldier -- where''s your c.o.?
stepped on a booby trap, sir -- got blown all to hell --
well , who is in command here?
i do not know -- do not have any idea -- I am just the night man --
you came in on that boat, did not you?
yeah --
where are you headed?
what is it matter? get to the point.
look -- you know the girls -- thta's terri -- she was playmate of --
yeah, i caught your show at hau fat.
oh -- i see -- well, girls, this is captain -- eh --
captain willard -- go ahead.
look -- we got in a little trouble -- they rudely took our helicopter for medevac work on this -- uh operation brute force -- they just brought it back this morning.
yeah.
well i mean like they also took our fuel -- we have been here two days.
dreadful.
look -- the girls could get killed -- we are not supposed to be this close combat, i mean real combat.
well --
we could use some fuel -- just a half drum -- just enough to get us out a here.
we need all our fuel.
look -- you know who that is, captain -- you know what she is saying -- you will never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life.
I am not that fond of blondes -- maybe i like brunettes --
take your pick -- they all like you -- i can tell --
i like all of them --
good -- like i said, take your pick.
i said i like all of them.
now just a second -- I am doing you a favor, buddy -- what are you trying to pull?
we need all our fuel anyway.
wait -- wait -- do not get up tight -- what i meant was we would need a whole drum for that --
sit down -- we will talk about it.
what is there to talk about -- this whole thing disgusts me.
my men --
what !
that is what there is to talk about -- my man -- i take a good care of my men --
you are out of your skull --
we have a lot of pride in our unit --
how far do you think you can push -- what kind of people do you think --
esprit de corps --
no -- absolutely not --
one for all -- all for one --
you can keep your fucking fuel --
you make some of your closest friends in the army -- war has a way of bringing men together.
get out --
men of all races -- nationalities --
two whole drums --
we can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too --
i do not know what you are talking about -- get fucked --
i will -- i assure you that -- you got a fifty on that h-34 -- leave the ammo in boxes -- I will get my men to bring the first drum with 'em --
careful,  captain, they have been known to charge.
all right i got a little surprise for you --
I have arranged with those people we saw at hau fat to give us some 50 caliber in trade for a couple a drums of fuel --
no shit.
chef -- since you are such a fan of miss december's i think you should be detailed with lance and clean to take the first drum up there.
i do not believe you --
what are you trying to say, captain --
you will see soon enough -- get going, sailor --
no shit -- hot damn --
captain willard?
that is me.
captain willard -- we got these from nha thrang two days ago -- they expected you here then --
you do not know how happy that makes me, sir.
why?
now i can get out a here -- if i can find a way out.
we will be needing some supplies and fuel -- do you know anybody who can give me a hand?
I would just clear out as soon as i could if i were you, sir. they are going to start working on the bridge with torches again. charlie will start throwing it in hard --
what is this bridge?
it is of strategic importance for keeping the highway into bat shan open -- the generals do not like to admit that bat shan is surrounded.
you came right to it, son of a bitch --
son of a bitch, sir.
where is your chief supply officer?
beverly hills --
what?
straight up the road -- a concrete bunker -- beverly hills -- where else you think he would be?
c'mon --
hey, buddy, that boat still runs, eh?
yeah, it still runs.
do me a favor buddy, please.
what is it?
it is to everyone i really knew -- the first girl i screwed -- my brother -- best friend -- i wanted to tell 'em how much i enjoyed knowing 'em -- it is been a great twenty years. i got to let 'em know.
what are you askin' me for -- put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
nobody comes in here.
you got a chance in that boat -- by morning you could be five miles down the river.
we am not goin' down the river.
spooky.
charlie?
no, it would be spooky without the war -- give 'em back.
wow, you must a found the c.o., eh?
we found some bodies -- let's get out a here.
what about ducking into one of those tributaries till this river slows down?
who knows what is up there?
can not be any worse than this. what do you think?
i think this river wants to take us home fast. I am practically goin' in reverse.
well, get in there.
this whole area is lousy with v.c. -- we do not stand a chance. lemme turn around and we will be in hau fat in six minutes.
get in there !
this is my crew and my fucking boat, and I am the responsible party.
get in there now or I will bury you in this river.
what do you see?
i do not know.
i know it sounds stupid, but i feel like the goddamn jungle's watching us.
probably is.
whatdoya think it thinks.
that we are dumber than we look.
elevate lance, in the tree. no, i saw another.
thirty meters up, lance; i saw the fucking flash.
there is some bad holes, man, and the cracks -- water's coming through the cracks. food's shot to hell.
how much is left?
less than half -- sure is a mess down there.
and the grass?
still got a lot of that stuff from nha trang. but we are running low on the other.
that is a light down there --
yeah, it is.
what the hell is it?
in the middle of the jungle -- a goddamn light.
they are not cong.
we are americans.
what did he say?
said i speak french like a spanish cow.
i --
i am -- I am captain b.l. willard. this is chief warrant officer phillips -- it is his boat. we were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food -- we can pay you in gold.
fifty calibers, eh, captain --
as i said, we can pay you in gold.
entirely unnecessary, captain.
american weapons?
we took them from the dead.  now -- i assume you want to rest, to shower. we will attend to your repairs after dinner.
we do not want to bother you any, we --
a man of war is never bothered to aid an ally -- you will follow me, captain.
a habit of men of war, sir -- you understand.
of course, captain -- an unfortunate necessity.
it is very good -- there is no current -- it is very good. i have never seen one like it in all indochina. i was in paris when it arrived -- do you know what might have caused --
looks like a two thousand pound to me. yeah, a two thousand pound bomb.
no, I have seen those in normandy. this is much better.  my country -- my country could never originate this. magnificent.
attacks repulsed, as i was saying.  this is only  for this war, captain. viet cong -- 54; north vietnamese regular forces -- 15; south vietnamese -- 28 -- regular forces and otherwise.  americain -- 6. of course, they were, perhaps, mistakes, captain.
of course. i -- once we make our repairs, we could send word, we could have you evacuated from here.
captain?
you will get blown outta here some day.
we will never 'evacuate', captain -- this is our home. indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
the vietnamese think it is theirs -- i guess the americans do, too.
but we civilized it. a place belongs to those who bring light to it, do not you agree.
i always thought the french came here to get the rubber.
may i ask where the captain is going in his little boat?
we were going upriver when we got caught in a storm, ma'am.
upriver? why upriver? there is nothing there, only jungle.
do you know that jungle?
when i was a boy, my father would take me there, to hunt. there are a few savages, but no man can live there, no white man.
what about an american named kurtz?
you must realize, captain -- we have lost much here -- i, my husband. gaston -- his wife and son.
I am sorry to hear that.
cognac?
i should be checking on the boat.
the war will still be here tomorrow.
do you miss your home, captain? have you someone there?
no. not really.
what will you do after the war?
i just follow my footsteps, one at a time, trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones.
what is a big question?
kurtz.  i know you have heard of him.
yes.
what did you hear?
that strange things.. terrible things have occured around this american, kurtz.
what things?
gaston would never tell me. it was asubject not to be spoken of, captain.
yes.
did you know -- deeper in the jungle, upriver -- there are savages?
i know.
but captain, i mean -- cannibals.
are you warm, captain?
the river is beautiful.
I am afraid i will not have time -- i got to --
whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores -- a case of grenades, a mortar and two m-16's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order.
so that is it.
you may think what you wish, captain, but i like you very much.
what if i say no.
then philippe will have to kill all of you.
two of my men deserted last night. it happens from time to time. i assume my daughter told you of our conditions.
your daughter.
i guess this is what men of war do -- eh?
we endure, captain -- you can blow up the house and we will live in the cellar -- destroy that and we will dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it. burn the forest and we will hide in the swamp. all the while, we do but one thing -- clean the blood off our bayonets.  au revoir, captain.
holy shit.
what did you put in all those ammo boxes?
rocks, sand -- those two men who deserted.
when'd you do it?
while you were sleeping.
flood.
no -- most of 'em are still standing -- might have been disease.
the other one --
no -- leave it --
why -- charlie put it there to kill --
thta's not charlie's work --
whoever put'em there did not do it to kill people -- they put 'em up as signs --
signs?
yeah -- like keep out --
listen.
what is it?
listen.
will they attack?
if they have boats ... or canoes... they would get lost in the fog. we can not move either -- we will end up on the shore.
two hours after the fog lifted, we moved slowly to a spot we thought was roughly a mile and a half below kurtz's camp. we approached a long sand-bank stretching down the middle of the river.
which way? right or left?
who knows? right.
looks pretty shallow.
we have been attacked.
i know, i know, it is all right. come in this way. it is mined over there. this way. it is all right.
charlie?
looks that way.
who is he?
god knows.
who the hell are you?
moonby. got any winstons?
moonby what?
moonby, 4th battalion, royal australian regiment, task force. ex-corporal moonby, deserted.
what is this?
this boat's a mess.
where is kurtz? i want to talk to him.
oh, you do not talk to colonel kurtz.  you listen to him. god, these are good. i kept these people off you, you know. it was not easy.
why did they attack us?
simple. they do not want him to go.
you are australian?
pre-australian, actually. but I would dig goin' to california. I am california dreamin'.
so kurtz is alive.
kurtz. i tell you, that man has enlarged my mind.
but lemme tell you, he is the most dangerous thing in every way that I have come on so far. he wanted to shoot me. the first thing he said is, 'i'm going to shoot you because you are a deserter.' i said i did not desert from your army, i deserted from my army. he said, 'i'm going to shoot you just the same.'
why did not he shoot you?
I have asked myself that question. i said to myself, why did not he shoot me? he did not shoot me, because i had a stash like you would not believe. i hid it in the jungle; the wealth of the orient: marijuana -- hashish -- opium -- cocaine -- uncut heroin; the gold of the golden triangle. and acid -- i make koolaid that makes purple owsley come on like piss. now I am kurtz' own disciple -- i listen he talks. about everything ! everything. i forgot there is such a thing as sleep. everything. of love, too.
sounds like he is gone crazy.
no, colonel kurtz could not be crazy -- if you heard him talk, just last week, you would never think he was crazy.
is that where he is? by the shrunken heads.
those heads, yes. well, the rebels...
we are going ashore. tie her up -- and leave your guns up, lance.
what?
bring your rifles, that is all.  take us to him.
right on -- he is been waiting for --
and shut up.
who are you?
his name is...
I am not ever goin' to tell you to shut up again.
what -- happened here.
charlie?
nva regulars. they are coming again tonight. tet -- their big -- assault.
colonel kurtz, i guess.
I am kurtz.
captain b.l. willard reporting his presence, sir.
why did you come to ... my province.
we were attacked -- down river. we need supplies and medical help.
you were not coming here, to see me?
no -- no, sir.
you came up my river -- in that small boat. so simple. i always thought the final justice would come from the sky, like we did.  you are the final justice, are not you?
what do you mean, colonel?
what other reason could you have come? a captain. ranger. paratrooper. graduate of the recondo school. am i right about these things?
you know you are right.
do you know me?
yes.
captain -- they have been probed all this week -- cong and nva regulars. there is going to be a big offense any time.
i know.
what are we doing here?
kurtz. I am supposed to kill him, just like he said.
yeah, i can see that. he is fuckin nuts --
yeah.
he killed that guy without feeling anything.
not a thing.
when you kill cong, do not you feel something.
sure.  recoil... i feel the recoil of my rifle.
this is evil -- evil, captain. we are all going to die here.
yeah, i know.
i do not get it -- you said your mission was to kill him. let's do it, an' get our asses outta here. this  kurtz is ruining the war; i mean, this do not look good for america !
... he is an amazing officer.
you got to kill this sonuvabitch -- lance and me, we don''t understand none of this -- jesus, captain -- i do not wanna die here -- do it quick.
i said get the fuck out !  I am going to kill the little weirdo myself tomorrow.  he is only stayed alive this long because he is a good orderly and medic. he knows how to use a hypodermic.
you are going to get hit tonight, bad -- a whole regiment of nva regulars.
that is right, the little gook- pricks. but they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. because they fight with their guts, like animals. and for an idea ! that is rich. we fight with ingenious machines and fire, like gods, and for nothing. but I will call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. we will have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. how do you like the doors': 'c'mon baby light my fire...'
do you?
yeah, i like it...
i love it.
you have gone crazy.
no. my thinking is clear.  but my soul has gone mad.
no -- i do not want to sleep. i want to think. water. give me water.
you can not have water after morphine.
still playing by the rules.  you are a damn good kiler.
how is the pain?
how is yours?
i can handle it.
pain is easy to handle -- but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much truth he can handle.
what truth?
the truth that you were sent here to murder me, ans so far you have not done it. and do you know why?  yes, you know why.  your mission makes about as much sense as those idiots who sent you on it. asshole ! schmuck ! how long does it take you to figure out that nobody knows what they are doing here.  except me.
gimme water.
no water.
you know what you are doing? you are interfering with my plans !
how did we get here?
because of all the things we do, the thing we do best -- is lie.
i think think a lie stinks.
oh captain, that is so true.
stinks. i could never figure --  i could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm -- and not let them write the word 'fuck' on their airplanes.
you could never figure it because it does not make sense.
fuck no.
I will tell you what makes sense ! air strikes ! white phosphorus ! napalm ! we will bomb the shit out of them if they do not do what we want.
we will exterminate the fuckers !
go away -- hide yourself.
what are you doing?
going back  - to the jungle to die.
I am taking you back. you can still live.
i had immense plans.
I am going to get you out of here.
i was on threshold of great things.
who is he?
he was the tragedy -- the tragedy of this war.
my river... my people... my jungle... my ideas... my country... my wife...  ... my death.
you had immense plans... immense plans...
yes...
I am taking you back.
how did they know?
they must have seen the fire.
yeah.
colonel kurtz, he is dead.
yeah.
did you know him very well?
you get to know each other pretty well out there.
and you admired him?
he was a remarkable man. it was impossible not to --
love him... yes, it is true. that is the hard part for me... i knew him better than anyone ... i knew him best.
you knew him best.
you were his friend... you must have been, if he had given you this...  if he sent you to his home. he was the best this country had -- he was --
yes, i know...
I will never get over it -- but I will always remember him...
both of us...
men looked up to him...  he died as he lived...
his death was -- yes, he died as he lived.
were you with him, when...
yes i was... he said his last words to me.
