he is coming around fine.
be right back.  i left my camcorder in the car.
what are you doing?
he still might be around.  i saw fresh tire tracks coming in.
stay here.
be careful -- there are two of them.
you got two counts against you -- trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land.
can not be much of a crime, if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid.
i got your plate number, asshole. maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail.
great idea -- pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a high-powered hunting rifle.
bastards took off, though, did not they?
leave it here.
let's keep going.  we are only an hour from devil's cauldron.
relax.  i just want to ask them how the hunting is.
20   continued:
you can pack out of here -- two, three days' hike along this river at most.  weather should hold this early in the season.
hullo, sam.  slow day?
ben...boys.  yeah, real slow, and I would like to keep it that way.
just passing through.
23   continued:
needs patching.
hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live.  you are the first people we have seen in two weeks.
23   continued:
relax.  one more day without drink will not kill you.  right, sam?
I am living proof of that sad fact.
can we buy the marshal some dinner?
no, i better stay at my post.
had no choice...  ...given the situation.
i know.  least you did not shoot all of them.
go ahead.  take the jeep.  I will come to cache with bob when he gets here.
okay by me.  you are the one likes these hot springs so much.
leave my traps.  we will tag up, couple days.
26   continued:
i was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so i closed it up.
thanks.
i bet you have not had lunch.
bet you are right.  but i did not come by to wangle a meal --
-- we appreciate the company. anne marie's getting cabin fever already.
what did you say they call these spaceships?
mobile arctic dwelling -- mad.
i call it 'the turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back.
best thing is, meyerling has to chase around to find us.
the little creep hates it that eric actually does what the company hired him to do.
watch it with meyerling.  man's as mean and corrupt as they get. cut his mother's throat if it would get him a couple votes.
26   continued:
hey, sam, look over there.  black and white smoke.
damn.  likely that is an sos. have to pass on that lunch.
we will go with you.
27   continued:
question is why they sat here when the storm moved in.  check their stuff while i sniff around.
I am too old for this shit.
any idea who could have done it?
a certain sonofabitch bastard -more-
28   continued:
I will go into town with you.
eric, leave it alone.  it is not your business.
no way can he get away with this. I will be back by tonight.
ben corbett?
yep.  afraid you have me at a disadvantage.
kenai at the general store asked me to bring these.  did not expect we would already met.
no big deal.  we just got off on the wrong foot.  what is your name?
desmond.
new to the country, kid?
six months.  ecological study for northland oil.
ecology.  folks use that term for everything but what it means: who is eating who.
30   continued:
now, why do not you get around to saying what you want.
you would not shoot anyone...
but i would.
all this for laying traps on private land?
you left a footprint at the sportsmen's camp.  only pretty sight there, ben, 'cause the two men you did not shoot and mutilate died of exposure.
christ if i should not know better than to step in soft earth.  I have seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old.
i got it from here.  thanks.
sam, give dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit, will you?
nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window.  see you again, maybe.
yeah.  maybe so.
this is sam wilder, marshal in devil's cauldron.  had some killings here.  i got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands.
on a good day i could not spare a crosswalk guard.  but now, no way.  folks're batshit with the weather turning sour.  bring him in yourself.
next plane's not coming 'til next monday.
sit your suspect out in the cold. he will keep.
this man's friends am not going to look favorably on his incarceration.
so shoot him.  will not have to feed him that way --
34   continued:
mind if i get some stuff from my kit?
sam, listen -- i shot to defend my man.  other guy drew first.
if that was all, fine.  but carving him up, stranding the others, that is too fucking much. is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you?
I will get loose before that plane comes.
do not try me.  I will kill you if it comes to it.
mr. desmond!  arthur neff.  area rep for the federal assistance plan.  tell the boys in dc to keep those goodies coming.
sure.
snowplow, generator, tv dish... hell, we get the goddamn playboy channel!  here, this is for you.
did you catch corbett?
sure did.  he was one of the trappers we rousted from the haul road.
was there any trouble?
he was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker.
going after killers is not the same as chasing poachers, eric.
can not help myself.  corbett's type always pisses me off.  oh, i found this at the post office.  had your name on it.
oh, sweetheart.  it is beautiful!
you were looking at it in the catalog.  do not know where you can wear it...
I will wear it for you.  and i can wear it when we go home.  we will not be here forever.
you make it sound like a prison sentence.
that is not what i meant.
it is exactly what you meant.
look, why get into this again. as long as it is working, let's leave it alone.  it is been nice so far.  we are together --
-- permanently?
do i want to be with you permanently?  yes, i think i do. but be with what you do and the way you live?  that i do not know. c'mon, eric, until i met you, coming back to alaska was totally
39   continued:
back against the bars.  now.
i still can not believe I am being financed by an oil company. especially when they get a look at these pictures.  technology in the wilderness; not too pretty.  what is that?
i thought i should check our emergency transmitters.
avalanche season is coming.
43   continued:
winter.  two straight months of night -- we may never get out of bed.  which would suit me fine.
prolonged darkness makes people crazy.
not me.  I am equipped.
high-tech in the wilderness. gets me excited, too.
come here...
...you give us a ride in the cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we will be in fairbanks in a few hours.
that is what we should have done in the first place.
i could have sat tight for the transport, 'til bob came poking around.
a lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl --
-- to take you to jail?  it will be my pleasure.
you better get some sleep.
good idea.  flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises.  go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it.
48   continued:
I will get you there all right.
goddammit, i do not need this aggravation.  I will shoot you, ben.  bank on it.
i do not want to hurt you, sam.
I am not too old to knock the snot out of you!
nothing personal.
does he have people?
a daughter in oregon.
send him down to her.  there is money in my duffel bag, back at his cabin.
surviving is what i know --
-- killing is what you know.  pack some food while i prep for the flight.  I am sure not going to let him go.
lemalle.  we got a problem. where is mitchell?
goddamn!  viking bob!  mitchell's inside, boring bastard...
...ben never sent a signal.
musta never got a chance to -more-
meaning he will need a plane.
closest planes for hire are here in cache.
hang on...  remember that cessna we saw at the pumping station on the haul road?  belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline.
there you go.  wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' bambi-lovers.
it is a long shot.
how long have you been up north?
six months.
can not be.  too keen a sense of this place in your pictures.
my dad was a navy doctor.
knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair.  blue eyes give you away.  my wife had blue eyes.
had?
she is dead.
oh.
had some good years.  met her in '66.  she showed up one day in coldfoot.  no one knew her.  one sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder.  did not work out in three months, she would return the money and leave, no hard feelings.  my bid was eight thousand dollars.  beautiful girl.
how did she..?
i was gone, in september, laying traplines.  she went to our cache for some meat.  got mauled by a bear.  tore open her skull. -more-
what about you -- why come back? classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things.
that is why i left, moved to washington.  when i met eric i was doing day shoots -- products and fashion, mostly.  pretty dull.  eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with northland oil.  we wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography... and here i am.
you should know something.
i do not want to talk any more.
was not my intention to hurt wilder.  I am telling you the truth.  i liked the man.  i only meant to get loose... to survive. your cheechako boyfriend better understand that.  listen, I have got some money put away --
let's go.
wait a second.
maybe you should drive him into devil's cauldron, let them decide what to do with him.
fairbanks is a three-hour flight. I will be back by dinnertime.
be careful, okay?
that is my line.
how the hell were they smart enough to find us?
smart?  sure.  that is why I am sitting in this plane and they are down there blowing me kisses.
been driving long?
i needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so i got one in six weeks.
that makes the flight more interesting.
see the blood?  pack of wolves took down a moose.  greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches.  I would kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the president of the u.s.  stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
89   continued:
sounds like professional jealousy.
hunting and trapping was a damn fine life.  me and mitchell, bob and lemalle, we were teams.  I would always go with mitchell.  good man, mitchell.  I would let bob worry about goddamn lemalle.  we would hire a plane in october.  on the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we would drop supplies.  we would land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before christmas.
stay put!
you got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger?
next time you want to kill yourself, do not include me.
i took the odds on getting down in one piece, and i made it.  now we are in my territory.
with light clothing and no supplies, this is nobody's territory.
you sound like the tourists. know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine.  fuck you.  you will not make it off this mountain.
let's go.
94   continued:
I am not going to carry you out of here.
that is right.  you are not.
look, take these cuffs off.  we need to work together.
95   continued:
it will be interesting, trying to build a fire without any wood.
why in hell you care enough about me to die taking me in?
i do not plan on dying.
we will stop here, dig out a snow shelter.
snow shelter.  okay.  you dig. I will have a little sit-down.
still quite a hike to devil's cauldron.  days.  a long stretch to go without sleep, my friend.  you can hide behind that pistol for now, but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze --
-- turn around.
ice is too thin -- you can see the water moving underneath.
we are not sitting here 'til november.  there is a cargo plane coming to devil's cauldron in four days, and I am putting you on it.
we get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
I have been on ice like this when i was a kid, skating.  spread your weight, keep moving.  go on.
be my guest.
I am right behind you.
102  continued:
wait 'til I am across!
most dangerous thing in the world: a regular joe, in over his head.  you trying to prove how tough you are for me, or for yourself?
it was not my idea to crash the plane.
let's camp.  there is grayling under this ice. I will snare some for dinner.
we have got another two hours of daylight.
pushing it is flat wrong.  all you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail.
have you talked to eric?
i have not, but i very much want to.  what do you know about the trouble in devil's cauldron?
i was hoping you had some news --
-- get this straight: I am the district supervisor.  whatever you do reflects on me.  it was not my idea to bring you people up here, but I am stuck with you. you are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes. whichever side you take, you alienate the other.  mr. corbett is quite well-known in this region.  people admire him --
-- corbett's a killer.
what happened here?
the radio's on the fritz.
where did you say eric is?
somewhere along the pipeline.
what about that hotheaded marshal, sam wilder?  i heard he was in the middle of this mess.
sam?  we have not seen him.
really.  i thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside.  by the way -- your truck also 'on the fritz?'
why?
it is out by the pumping station, shot full of holes.
have to backtrack, find another way down.
forget it.  it would take days.
going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on.
you talk about ecology -- there it is.
107  continued:
i called the cops in fairbanks, see when ben is standing trial. they do not know shit about ben or wilder!
get the fuck out of here.
it is a three-hour flight.  they shoulda got there yesterday.
maybe they went back to devil's cauldron.
naah, wilder knows we got friends in town.
that plane might have been to throw us off the track.  remember the bait-and-switch wilder pulled with the eskimo and his truck?
okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail.  you know the kid out on the pipeline that wilder's buddies with?
we were just talking about him.
damn lucky this storm did not blow down when we were on those baldheaded mountains.  it continues, we better stay put.
it could blow over tomorrow, too.
I am still figuring: you are either real brave or real dumb.
113  continued:
i just want this over with.
where in hell meyerling dig you up?
you know meyerling?
sure.  the people's friend.  kiss your ass with precision if there is a vote in it.
sure love to know where you fit in up here.
I am here to do my job.
you want to fool yourself about that bullshit job, fine.  damn shame you have to drag your girlfriend along.  you think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man -more-
folks come to alaska for a real short list of reasons:  money. adventure.  solitude.  those cover most everyone.  but frontiers also draw another type of man.  one with a demon in his gut.  he comes to the edge of the world to face that demon, and lay it to rest.
yeah?
yep.  sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or dead.
there is a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here.
too bad we are heading west.
there is a snowmobile. inside a day we could be on the yukon.  i got money there.  remember that five thousand?  make it ten.  be smart.  take it and walk away.
you do not get it, do you?
have to get these wet things off.
you are not going to slow us down! keep moving!
117  continued:
inside of three hours you would be dragging my dead carcass.
stay awake!  you want to go hypothermic?
if that means freeze my balls off, no thanks.  I will be okay.
told you I am fine!
how many do you see?
what?!  fuck off.  save yourself.
you do not feel cold?
it is a spring day...
stay still.
where is my elt?
emergency transmitter?  all your gear is back at wilder's.
you got one?
it was blown up with the plane.
too bad.  we would be out of here in a few hours.
119  continued:
how?  nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season.  besides, I am surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy electronics.
I am hungry.  go kill me some dinner.
an appetite.  maybe you will not die after all.
hate to disappoint you.
it is sam wilder!
musta wanted to keep him from the bears.  if ben killed him, he sure as hell would not hang him up like this.
where is the kid?
go easy.
cool out.  i am not about to get blasted.
134  continued:
used to see the natives eating roots when i was a kid in nome.
nome?  i figure you would be a whaler, coming from there.
told that is what our old man was. planned on going to sea, me and bob, 'til i read jack london. started trapping when i was ten. mailed the furs to sears.  eight bucks for a skunk, three for a muskrat.  that was fine money.
killing wildlife not good enough anymore, so you go on to bigger and better things.
you got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them.
do not judge me.  you are a joke, coming here from a fucked-up culture, telling us what to do!
yeah, it is fucked up -- but it is not too late to keep that from happening here.
all you do is keep folks from working the land, living like they are meant to.  you do not understand shit!  trappers, hunters -- we are part of the environment.  who is protecting us?  I have seen plenty like you.  so -more-
what do you know about people? you live like an animal!  a savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
I am real sad you do not approve of me.
do not push me..!
cowardly bastard.  I am in handcuffs and i still scare the piss out of you.
first you save my ass, now you want to kill me.  make up your goddamn mind.
134  continued:
wilder's missing church services; you believe it?
i just as soon he stay gone. fool could have got us all killed, arresting ben corbett here in town.
what makes you so sure my boys will not be waiting for us?
139  continued:
they think you are in fairbanks. if not, they still will not find you before the plane comes tomorrow.
do not bet on it.
i already have.
you do not know how true that is.
maybe...maybe not.  I will tell you what scares me -- stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk.  that is why i want to work on the front lines, where what i do means something.  soon as i got here, i realized my job was bullshit.  oil company propaganda.  i was ready to leave, then i thought screw it, I will outsmart them, do the work anyway.  i do not know anymore.  maybe i am fooling myself.  that is what I am afraid of most of all.
hell, i still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer i can go on.  no 'home for retired trappers' that -more-
i am not going to leave a seven- hundred-dollar remington behind.
what you going to do with it?  large bore's for shit on small game.
not in the right hands it ain't.
thought that door was open last night...
quit fucking around.  get in.
you do not mind me saying, mr. desmond, you look like hell.
have you heard anything from the girl staying with me, anne marie?
not a damn thing.  what is going on?  mr. meyerling was here, all steamed up, looking for you.
look, neff, I have got ben corbett with me --
-- here?!  where is wilder?
back at my place... he, uh, broke his leg.
if corbett's men find out --
-- I am putting him on the plane to fairbanks, eleven tomorrow.
jiminy christmas.  what do you want from me?
corbett ruined my two-way.  go to my place on the haul road, tell anne marie I am okay and to sit tight.
why the smirk?
bet i could make some money turning ben corbett in.  maybe more for lettin' him loose.  i was up in my cache.  saw the northland man come talk to you.
you are out of your greedy goddamn mind.
corbett coming here stinks of trouble.  we should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
stay out of it.
talk to that good-looking girl of yours?
you broke the radio, remember?
I am sure she is fine.  seemed like a clever kid.
you were real resourceful out there.  got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter.  so he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones.  gets along better than ever.  yeah, maybe i underestimated you.
i liked you better frozen.  you did not talk so much.
you are damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it is ruined, gone for good.  you saw wonders you would only dreamed of.  that alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them.
remember that demon in the gut? sometimes it is nothing more than wondering if the so-called civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you.  that is what you want out of this, is not it?
150  continued:
he saw you and corbett come in...
dixie's waiting at the infirmary. she will put a splint on that injured leg.
...i will not let a killer walk!
157  continued:
alleged killer.
what does this matter to you?
you can not see past your lousy little assignment, sniffing around the pipeline.  the few voters there are in this district look up to corbett, and I am not about to alienate them.
i should release corbett because you want some votes?
this miserable wilderness is a state of the union.  policy's made here the same way as in the civilized world: at the ballot box.  that is the beauty of it -- these icebox cowboys are living a century too late.  get them on your side, it is like buying manhattan for beads.  with a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the new world.
some day these people'll wake up, and you will be the first one they will run out of here.
what is wrong?
just stay out of my face until I am gone!
emergency transmitter?  what happened to signal mirrors or two-tone smoke fires?
lets us watch each other's backs over a wide area.  only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths. elt was in my duffel bag, not around my neck where it should have been.
no way they will find you on a five-minute signal.  and no way -more-
i need to rent a cabin.
what is the problem with sam wilder's place?
will you rent me a cabin, or not?
pretty clever:  if the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time, sam's is the first place they will look.  they may figure you are waiting for an airplane, so you can not stay in the shack by the airstrip.  last place they would expect you is on the far side of town.  i can not afford any trouble --
-- here's a hundred dollars.  and if you or anyone else will back me up on this --
-- forget it.  and try not to bleed on my throw rugs.  why do this?
if you have to ask, you would not understand.
oh, christ, sweetheart.  four days!  i thought you were dead, or worse.
you can not stay here.  go back to the turtle.  I will meet you back there in a few hours.
what is going on?
I will tell you everything later.
where is corbett?
here.  a transport plane is due at eleven.  once i put him on it, it is all over.
so what is the problem?
165  continued:
there is not one, unless corbett's men get here before the plane does.
please, anne marie, you being here only complicates things.
I am staying.
i was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but i guess she found you.
yeah.  sorry i barked at you last night.
I am the one should be sorry... goddamn kenai, always out for a score.  i never should have let him go over there.
165  continued:
I would sure like that favor you offered a while back.
look, mr. desmond, i did not count on it turning this ugly.
what are you talking about?
bastards killed sam, you think they will not kill the rest of us?
there'll be three, four men at the most.  i have some backup, nothing will happen.
I am real sorry.  in a while, you are gone from this country. but we live here.  no one wants to mix it up with those hombres.
you do not care enough about sam to --
-- sam wilder was my cousin. he is why i came to alaska.  all his letters, saying what a paradise it is.  but me ending up dead will not do sam a lick of good.
you are hurt.
nothing broken.  c'mon, we have to hurry.
maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend.
shut up!

you will catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft.  sit on the cot.  keep this pointed at him if i get preoccupied.
168  continued:
look, we pull ben's ass out of the fire, I will get you a whole damn crate of snickers bars.
I am right fuckin' here with you.
answer and I will shoot!
you kill me, you sign your death warrant.  and hers.
you hear me?  ben?
ease off.  we do this my way.
relax.  i got a nervous man here with a magnum up my nose.
175  continued:
snow's to their advantage, kid. you can not see them, but soon as that plane comes, they will sure as hell know where we are going. wise up.  take me to the yukon. I will give you that money and guarantee you will walk away.
why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside?
the time has passed for men like them and me.  i know it.  but they are still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. that is why they will kill you. -more-
184  continued:
your infrared camera?
technology in the wilderness. only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip.
I have got an idea.  we will have to work fast.
there is what they are waiting on!
they will have to come right past us.
when you ran off, i thought you would keep going 'til you were back home in washington.
my home is here.  with you.
kenai's pa -- but how the fuck she seein' us?
does not matter.  we know where they are going.  c'mon.
dead.  trappers killed him.
aw, jesus.  told you this was trouble.  what about you, big shot?  do something.  who is side are you on, anyway?
nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct?  that is good.  now, eric, you are going to hand your prisoner over to us.
fuck you.
this is not your concern.  it is over, here and now.
212  continued:
keep back.
neff, you know better than this...
you are an outsider, mr. desmond. step aside; stay out of it.
can you walk?
wound's a through-and-through. missed my liver, i think.
let's get out of here.
how come you did not let him shoot me?
like i said, I would still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it was not for you.
we will get you to a hospital, soon as we get to fairbanks.
215  continued:
so they can patch me up and put me in a cage?  forget it. meyerling's right -- I am a dinosaur.  greedy bastards like him, it is their turn with this land.  put me in the woods, let me live or die on my own.
look down there, tell me what any of this matters.  struggles of men get swallowed by the bigness. soon there will not be a trace of our troubles... or us.
you are wrong.  everything we do leaves its mark.  you said it yourself -- there are hundred- year-old footprints in the tundra.
