why are there still such headlines?
this press we cannot control. americans, i think.
you know everyone can be controlled pavel. where are you storing the personnel files?
in a building belonging to the university in the old town.
you are quite sure it is secure?
the files are in a sealed room and the university are under strict orders to stay away.
the storage facility will be ready within a week, I will call you then.
lawrence is getting derogatory again.
shhhhh, I am concentrating!
i think he is jealous of havel.
he_s the closest we have got to an intellectual.
what is that? a democrat with an attitude!
no act of love but willing violence demanded by one and begged by the other. as life turned to fantasy and reality to ecstasy a need, so deep no light could reach, surfaced like a nocturnal creature unearthed for momentary and glorious display. left alone in a rose-tinted afterglow dimming fast she tasted the moisture of her body and wondered why light came to day and such desires to her pale-skin body.
well she sure is not normal.
fresh from the shrink I would say!
yeah, group bloody therapy time.
so why do not you get up and speak something, then we will see who is crazy.
ooh, well excuse me.
when the hell did you write that?
just yesterday.
shit honey, you could have told me. people might think it is about us!
maybe it is!
what is it with that josh guy? who does he think he is shoving that reflections rag down our throats?
son of the american ambassador and a banker - good enough?
wanker more like, what does he know about writing.
how to make a buck!
yeah right!....i do not know, something is not right with this place, it is all too sterile and staged. do you ever wonder why there is no czechs here?
because it is in english?
yeah, but it is not just that. to the czech mind, any movement, whether political or literary should be underground. if it isn't, then it is not radical and not worthy of a look-in.
but we are underground?
no you do not get it. every cabby in town knows this joint. so where is the mystery, the danger?
why do not you read something after the break? doug what here? were not you listening to what i just said?
you used to read.
well not any more, now I am a serious writer and above this crap.
inspirations a fickle thing, you do not realise you had it till it is gone.
and not even then sometimes.
that is true doug, writers are supposed to write.
and pay for their drinks occasionally.
you guys having a go a me or what?
we are only joking.....it is your round though!
well, this place is too expensive so you have had it.
well, get me and chris a drink then.
I will get the drinks, but not here. let's split. i can not stand this any more, it is murdering my respect for literature.
but i do not want to go, i am enjoying it.
how about you brutus?
sorry katka, but I am with doug on this.
you are outnumbered kat two to one, got to go with the majority, that is democracy.
all I am saying honey is run the thing past me for christ's sake before you get up and broadcast the crap.
oh that is it? everything i do is crap!
so what is it going to be, coogan's or u vayvudoo?
i do not care. I am not staying out late doug.
what about that squat bar you showed me, is that open on a sunday?
yeah, let's check out the low-life.
I am not staying out late and i can not come back to your place.
whatever!
anything in it?
no, just crap. i want some picture frames.
never heard of k-mart?
i do not have the money for those bourgeois traps. hell, I am making what a czech earns.
yeah and they manage to go to bourgeois joints!
it all comes down to ideology and they have lost theirs. if I would been here ten years ago, maybe they would not be in the mess they are today.
what is that? free!
just because they have got a choice of four mcdonalds, does not mean they can afford a cheeseburger.
give'em a break doug, all it takes is a little work.
a word of advice my celibate friend. these czech girls look like dynamite and go like it, but do not be fooled; there is a price to be paid and it is going up fast. right kat?
what?
you are everything a guy could want.
what are you having?
a coke, if they have it?
hey doug, you want a beer?
cheers katka!
naz dravi!.....what do you like about this place, these people, chris?
i do not know. it is kind of underground. doug's right, there is too much crap in this town.
i used to think he was right about a lot of things but now i do not know. i thought he was going somewhere but now i think i am wasting my time.
no, you guys are great together. he will come through, I am sure.
who is your friend?
that is lubosh, the greatest fiddle player in prague. you must have seen him playing with johnny on the bridge. ......come on, let's grab a table.
hmm..smells good. cheers!
what did the beer cost?
fifteen crowns.
this place is getting expensive too, used to be twelve.
still, fifty cents am not bad.
oh yeah, what is that?
an alternative literary venue!
i am not sure poetry will go down too well here.
no, it is the whole idea behind it. how did they get this place?
squatted it.
right and not just the bar, lubosh and his mates took the whole freakin' building.
so? doug well, there is tons of empty buildings - why do not we get one?
what we need is a space for real performance art. a cultural exchange for radical expressionism.
you have got to stop using that word "we" it is getting kind of scary. right katka?
it is just talk, he is drunk.
no I am not, i came to prague looking for something - this could be it!
he is not drunk, he is crazy.
maybe, but someone is got to make a stand.
like custer huh?
these guys think the west is just mtv and hollywood movies. we have got to show them there is more to it.
so how is your work?
it is okay, they are training me on the cash register and after i hope to work on one of the jewellery counters.
sounds cool.....do you think he is serious about squatting a place?
i do not know, i do not care. i see too much of him and he is changed. he used to be busy at the magazine. but now he is been doing nothing for months, like he does not care about anything, including me.
well, he sure seems fired up all of a sudden.
it will not last, believe me. and you, when will you go back to the states?
i do not know, maybe I will enrol for postgrad' studies next autumn.
your a good guy chris you deserve a nice girl.
like you?
no, better than me. you know, i have many friends, you should meet more of them.
good news comrades, it is better than we would hoped. lubosh filled me in on the legal side of squatting here and it is a piece of cake.
care to elaborate?
well, providing we are treated like czechs and we squat something that is not privately owned, we should be in the clear; at least doug  until they get an eviction order and bring in the bailiffs.
amazing, he did not even say "if".
no "if's" or "but's" it is a cinch. do you want to know what the icing is?
do not give me this kat, I am doing it for you and your country.
what? you are crazy!
look, just hear me out, okay?
okay, we are listening. but I am with katka on this one.
well, it is like i said, there is a ton of empty buildings around here and most of them were apparently given back to the city, so they are not private.... now, jahn here is an drama student at the university. he knows of a building that they were going to turn into a puppet theatre - they even began work on it, until they ran out of money.
puppet theatre, do not you need something a little bigger?
it is big, right jahn?
yeah, for sure.
and, since it is only two streets away, i suggest we go take a look. now!
doug i can't, I have got to be at work by eight. you promised to take me home.
look kat it will only take ten minutes. without jahn i might never find it... we will just have a quick look and then you and I will hit a tram.
i do not want to get in trouble.
do not worry it is okay!
no, i am an actor not a labourer, i am just warning you, that is all.
do not worry, I have got lots of friends.
okay, it is in here somewhere. let's keep it quiet.
we could make a run for it?
I am not going in doug. I will wait for you here.
okay, whatever. come on chris!
interesting. do reckon i could fit through here?
sure, I have done it easily.
hey chris, keep an eye on things.
you were right jahn, it is a great space..... hey, chris. do you want to come and look?
no thanks, i think we ought to get going though.
chris, what if i were to cut you in as partner in this project - together we could make it swing, all it needs is a good clean out and the power on, then we are in business.
i do not know man, I will drink beer and shoot crap with you anytime, but this is different.
damn right it is, it is a chance to do something meaningful for a change, to leave our mark on this town. hell, you will probably be gone in another six months and all you will have done is taught some kids the lines to a led zep' song - c'mon, do not run out on me now!
alright i give in. but let's not end up in jail. okay?
you got my word on it.
doug you said you would not be long. come on, I have got to go. now!
alright, I am coming. it is the perfect place jahn, thanks.
no, i got nothing till tuesday.
great. let's say nine of the clock here tomorrow. catch you later partner.
it is not fair, you hardly talked to me tonight.
I am sorry but it is been a crazy evening. I am going to make that place into something big. god, i love you!
let's walk over the bridge, we have not done that for a while.
we should go to the metro it is quicker.
nonsense, we can pick up the tram on the other side, it will not take any longer. come on!
kat, I am in paradise. i do not ever want to leave.
so, we will not be going to london?
no, not just yet.
i hope you are going to invite me in?
everybody is at home, it is no good.
let's have a look anyway.
she is tired.
it is bad news when you can not even bribe kids.
i want you so bad. she will be asleep soon, maybe we could do it quietly under the sheets.
no way doug, i can't.
yeah, you are right.... I have got an idea!
that stinks!
yeah, that could be job number two. i think it is a sewer.
no, but like my dad said, "there's only so many ways you can wire a plug".
he was an electrician?
no, he was talking about girls, i think.
that makes you an expert i guess.
too right....now the other thing we have got to do is start clearing up the rubble. can you make a start on that?
i feel like a mole in this joint, so i guess i might as well come out lookin' like one!
do not worry, I will give you a hand as soon as i can.
just two things. what do i use to shift the stuff and where in hell am i gonna put it all?
scout around and see if there is something, check that other corridor. if there is nothing, nip out and buy a broom and shovel.
and put it on expenses?
sure....as for the crap, I have got an idea.
somehow, I am going to have to band-aid that thing since we can not really replace it and then put a walkway over it.
so?
well, we might as well start filling it in now. as long as you leave enough room around that end of the pipe - so i can get to it, we are set. use them wooden boards to stop it all spilling into the space - we will neaten it up later.
you sure got a handle on that word "we".
not bad hey, i think I will add sparkie to my resume.....good shovel!
yeah, you are in luck there is two of them, the other's in there.
later mate, right now I have got to do the locks on these doors so we do not have to climb through that bloody window every time.
i thought that was part of the charm!
I will drill the locks and replace the barrels, that way it will not cost so much.
a locksmith too? why d'you ever bother with writing?
I am making history chris, nothings going to stop me. there could be a knighthood for us in this, once president havel hears.
I will settle for a pardon. you got to drill?
no.....but i think honza at the office has. you keep shifting this crap and I will take care of the locks, should not take long. take a break for lunch and I will catch you up later.
and if the police stop by - what do i tell them?
tell them we are working for the university.
thought of everything have not you.
yep, except a name for this place.
you are nuts man, katka's right!
hey doug, where you been?
working....under cover.
no, just a drill.
a drill, what are you up to?
nothing. I have got to put up some kitchen shelves that is all. you have got one have not you?
yeah.
and a fifty foot extension lead?
you do not have fifty foot of apartment!
come on, do not me give a hard time. I am just trying to make the place look nice for katka.
sure!
give me a break, will you. how often do i ask you for something?
okay, okay, but i want it right back. it belongs to my father.
no problem, is it at your place?
yeah.
great, let's break for lunch and I will buy you a beer on the way.
but i have to finish this....
come on, that shit can wait.
you mean you do not know, henry! we got a bunch of anarchists, controlling a six-level block of luxury apartments down on janovska street here in the old town, and you do not know about it?
ah, so what?
that is only the half of it. I have heard a rumour they are taking over a theatre to use for alternative arts; you know what that means?
henry, these guys already push most of the drugs in this town and now they want to move into pornography, right? believe me, it will not stop there either, next it will be a church and pretty soon they will have their own department store or something...... henry, we have got to stop them. the foundation's got to put an end to it!
how?
I am in close with these guys, it is not easy, but slowly they are opening up to me. give me a month and I will blow their movement wide open.
a month, jesus! and how do i know you are not crapping me?
you can hold back this months pay-check until i come through with the story.
what pay-check? you am not done nothing!
henry, I have been working my tail off on this. look, all i need is a little cash to loosen up some tongues and you have got the scoop. it will send those scum-bags down for life; be a big feather in the cap for the bugler and your board of directors back home!
i got a bad feeling about this.... how much do you need?
two hundred dollars, make it six thousand crowns?
there is three thousand and if you do not come through, I am going throw you clean out of that window. deal?
deal!
and take jiri with you?
what for?
insurance!
so, he did not fire you?
no way, he even gave me back pay.
wow!....what have you been doing, rolling around in it?
no, just making my contribution to cultural enlightenment, that is all.
well, do not get carried away.
I will try not to, I will leave that to you. anyway, there is still plenty more of it.
good, i love swinging a shovel.
no, why?
'cause you stink of booze.
yeah, that was honza's idea, i had to buy him a few beers in return for the gear.
tough break.
I am an idiot?
nope, not even close. I have thought of a name for this place and you were the inspiration though.
really, "the freeman centre"?
no....the asylum!
oh yeah, what is my connection to that?
none, it is mine - you said it earlier, I am nuts.
I have been saying that since we met.
yes, but it suddenly clicked, this is going to be a crazy place and, since the commies are used to seeking asylum, we can use that in the marketing.
perfect, but i can not use it right now, I have got to get these locks done; it is a matter of priorities.
yeah, I am beginning to see that.
just save me a little patch and I will do it later.
i do not know but that used to be a window and i think that was a door.
can you do the lock on it?
no, it is welded up!....let's take a look from the inside.
it must be on the other side of this.
but how did the wall get here?
i do not know. this wall is not like the rest though, it is not all that old either.
I would love to get in there.
do not we have enough already?
it must be fair old size, suppose it is empty?
and suppose a little old lady lives there?
no way, it is sealed - if she is in there she is dead.
sounds like a good reason to leave it alone.
just think though, it would make a hell of a cafe, that way we keep the auditorium clear.
well, it is definitely there - we have just got to get to it.
why, how in the hell are we going to set up a cafe?
I will rig up something do not worry - do you think i could bash through with that little hammer?
i do not know doug, we have not even got the place together and already you want to extend it.
do not worry if the old lady's there I will brick it back up.
look i got to get going, should not you have met katka?
is it gone four-thirty?
beer please! do you want another drink?
fernet and tonic.
i think I am stupid.....all you do is use me and expect me to wait for you.
no.
i thought you loved me doug but all you want from me is sex.
that is not true, we have a great time together. I have said I am sorry. let's forget about it and go stop by my place, so i can get changed.
oh sure and you will want sex, always sex.
i could have my choice of many boyfriends and go to movies and discos but i waste my time waiting for you and then going to stupid pubs.
I am not a bloody teenager okay, i told you i can not do that shit.
that is it, i am just stupid teenager, yes?
right now, yeah - you are talking crap.
no, i love you, really.
then tell me, what will happen? tell me!
look, i love you katka but I am twelve years older, i could never marry you, it would be stupid, you know that!
need any disks?
yeah, I will take some.
yeah, her name's kavlova, why?
see if she can donate some paintings or something to hang on these walls, give it a bit of atmosphere.
you would be better off with tables and chairs.
hey, lawrence how are you doing mate?
doug, have not seen you for a while.
I have been around.
have you met holly? josh's friend.
no! look lawrence, I have taken over the lease on a theatre downtown and I am throwing a party tomorrow night to show it off. it is going to be for alternative arts, but i need some help to finish it off, can you put the word out?
sure. excellent.
here's the details.
I will put one on the notice-board too.
am i invited?
sure as long as you do not bring that prick josh. thanks lawrence.
moved on to plumbing huh?
we got a party tomorrow night. can not have the place smelling like shit.
i thought you were gonna throw these?
i had a better idea, we will burn them. there is a drum across the road; i was just waiting for the workers to go home.
destroy the evidence huh.
have you ever stolen anything?
nope.
could you handle it if it was in a good cause?
like helping a sick kid?
no, for the asylum.
close!
just aiding and abetting if it makes you feel better.
what is that, five instead of ten years jail.
they will never get us.
perfect!
it looks new, they might miss one or two.
we are going to need it all.
jesus doug, they will execute us!
stealing's stealing, we might as well get what we need. this'll do for the floor and the walkway too.
let's split.
not yet, we need a few lengths of scaffold.
why do not we just take the whole damn building, brick by brick doug.
look at it this way, it is their contribution. if we would explained it to them, they would probably have given it to us anyway.
so why did not we?
we do not speak czech!
afternoon!
am i late?
no, not if you have got better things to do.
who put a bee up your butt?
like a hand?
when your ready son!
do you think anyone will really come here?
well, i think i_ve got a handle on the czech pysche and i reckon this kind of joint will make _em reminisce about the sixties. plus we should get a few stray expat_s looking for kafka.
fancy some lunch after we_re through with this meccano shit?
sure, i think it_s your turn to buy too.
we would better get some booze in for tonight.
you should have said it was bring-a-bottle.
no, i figure once they see the place and we get'em a little drunk, they will all want to help. we should have that floor done in a day or so.
here, let's both put in two hundred crowns. that should get nine or ten bottles of wine.
no beer?
not on the opening night, would not look right.
you get the wine and I will go see if i can rustle up some plastic cups.
why do not we go together?
no, it could take me hours. you know what it is like trying to find things in this town, not to mention disposable stuff - i would not think they have ever heard of them.
red or white?
both, see you later.
I would like to talk with you about doing some performance poetry here....a weekly thing.
hmm, i see possibilities but you got a lot to do.
we should be done by the weekend.
really?
i could pencil you in if you like?
I will take a rain-check for now.
i see, you have got your hands too far up your collective arse to pull it out long enough except to drink my bloody wine.
forget it doug, it is no good.
have you cleared all the rubble up?
no, not yet.
you are all bloody useless.
hi, want to take up dancing?
later. jahn, I have been let down by the guys who were going to do the flooring. they brought the materials but took my money and ran. you guys have a school theatre do not you?
yes, the obelisk but it is closed for repairs.
so i hear, do you know some of the stage hands?
sure, they are students.
well, i want them to put down a floor and a walkway.
there is three thousand crowns, it is all i got.
it is not so much.
look, if you can get them to finish it by friday, you and your friends can do the opening performance that night.
can we charge admission?
donations only! and make the thing non-lingual, so everyone gets a handle on it.
I will do my best. is the place open.
yep, it is all yours.
okay.
i thought I would help out.
we do not need you.
that is not what you said last night. and, i did not bring that "prick" josh.
alright, go help chris shovel up the last of the crap.
thanks.
time for lunch i think. I will get the sandwiches. what would you like holly?
I am not hungry, really.
get me a couple of beers and a salami.
we could make a start on the floor afterwards.
no, we are not going to do it.
what?
seems a shame!
the way i look at it, I have carried the camel to water and stuffed it is head under - if it does not drink now, we might as well shoot the thing and call it a day.
they will do it.
great. and your all set for the performance?
yeah, it is a simple piece. if they get the floor done in time, me and the others will rehearse tomorrow afternoon, but it is not critical.
do not go making it too simple, we are on the cutting edge here.
no thanks, i must go, but maybe you could get some beers for the guys.
do not worry. thanks.
thanks. come on chris, give me a hand.
i can't, I have got to split. i have to take a class at two o'clock.
why are you doing all this, what for?
well, I have failed at everything else I have done and i can not hack it as a journalist, even for the bugler.
what is the bugler?
it is a student magazine networked through eastern europe and funded by republican do-gooders back in the states.
i figured you more as a socialist?
i moving more to communism now it is dying out.
a champion of lost causes huh?
no, I am just running scared, same as everyone else.
we_re not all running away
i know, some are trapped, usually by money.
okay?
yo, dobree!
shall i wash these out?
yeah, we would better keep them for now, I will try and get some glasses for tomorrow night.
it is okay........we will paint the wood black, yes?
yeah, great....dobchay! it will dry, yes?
yes, of course...maybe one hour.
good, great....dobchay!
tomorrow, we will bring some lights and also hang some fabric. i think it will be finished in the morning.
it is perfect, you have done a great job.
is it dry?
yeah seems okay.
you are responsible...what has happened?
we are not sure...
what are you an idiot!
the building has been occupied and the locks have been changed.
the university cannot do this. is the room safe?
yes, i think so, it is still barred, but it is not the university who are in the building.
so, who is in the building?
some americans?
have you lost all control of this city?
i do not understand it, there were a lot of people there last night, many americans, i believe we should move carefully.
i do not think you realise what will happen if those files are made public. the lives of thousands of officers depend on the secrecy of those records, including your own now.
it was crazy not to have destroyed them
that was not my decision, i can only guess that one day we will again be active and our honour restored. in the meantime no one else must know those files exist. secure the building and i will arrange alternative safe storage immediately.
and what of these foreigners?
i do not care about americans. arrest them all if you have to, but keep those records secret.
i decided to help out at the asylum.
see you brought one of the patients with you too.
josh!
well come on, sit down.
yeah, so i hear. do not you think you should go get changed?
later.
okay honey, but do not be long. i got plans.
what would you like, beer?
no, just a coffee.
one beer, one coffee, thanks.
i think we should be going honey.
what for?
well, for a start, you have got to get cleaned up.
why?
i do not want to go.
it is time to go home, holly.
come on holly!
leave me, just leave me alone josh.
I would better get you to a hospital.
I will be okay, just get me home.
it is all my fault, I am so sorry doug.
i had it coming from someone.
are you sure i should not get a doctor.
who you saving the dishes for?
guests.
do not you have a girlfriend?
sometimes.
I would better get going, do you need a hand to get into bed?
sure!
that is my bag.
go to hell!
it is more than what you are worth.
you bastard!
yeah and you are a slut, so what?
shall i look after the rest?
do not you dare, I will be back!
my god! what happened?
i fell in love.
and a tram hit you?
no, the boyfriend.
what happened to katka?
did not i tell you, she dumped me monday night.
you romeo's sure pay a high price sometimes - anyone i know?
holly!
could not keep your hands off the hired help, huh?
it just happened.
she is as american as apple pie too. have you figured out exactly what it is you despise about them?
she is cool.
a fine specimen for conversion.
what are you on about?
well, i take it you are going to drag her down to your minimal existence and adjust her mindset.
do not tell me you really are in love?
yeah and i got the bruises to prove it. so what?
nothing, it is just that is when things usually start to go wrong.
did you take your things over to my place?
uh-huh!
run into josh?
yeah, but it was okay.
how did he look?
better than you.
hmm, i still owe him.
why do not we both forget about him?
alright!
yes, it is looks good.....we will use this for the soundtrack and we will have two guys up there with the spotlights. the others will just be house lights.
great....how long will it go for?
about forty minutes.
cool....so, if we say eight o'clock.
chris, can you do me a favour?
what?
take the drill back to honza at the office, i promised to get it back for the weekend and i do not want to show my face there.
you might make henry happy......sure, I will do it.
good, and then type up a notice on your computer for tonight's thing, photocopy it and put it up in all the faculty buildings and a couple of the pubs. it will start at eight of the clock and the bar will be open from seven. holly and I will go and get some beer and wine.  can you bankroll the bar for tonight?
yeah, no problem.
we am not going to give it away this time, are we?
shit no, it will be twice cost.
you capitalist pig!
the performance is free what more do you want....i've set that old phone up as a donation box and I will get jahn to write out a sign....okay, let's get going.
does jahn's thing have a name?
hey jahn.....you got a name for this thing?
head the flyers up with asylum and then put debut of....psychosis, theatre experimental. that will cover us if it flops. on the bottom put seek asylum where the stars shine on betlemska.
cool!
were not you going to get some glasses?
oh shit, yeah. can you lend some more money?
turned czech huh?
yeah, maybe.
it is me you want, I am responsible for all this.
he is lying! i am.
this is your doing?
yes, they had nothing to do with it.
and you broke into that room?
that is right.
you will wish you hadn't.
fuck you!
why did you break into that particular building?
it was the biggest i could find.
what was the real purpose behind this venture?
a kind of freedom.
either you are a liar or you are a fool.
good morning.
I am just here to record some details, standard stuff.
you mean your not going to spring me?
i do not know what it is with you bloody hooligans. not content with causing trouble back home, you idiots have to go off and wreak havoc throughout the whole of europe. and when finally, the police do catch up with you, you expect us to wave a magic wand and get you out, well not this time, I am sorry.
so am i.
now - your name is douglas greenwell, yes?
yes.
date of birth, november the fourth nineteen-sixty-two.
yes.
your home address is 18 thornton avenue, coventry.
that is my mum's.
i see, would you like us to inform her of your situation?
no!
now, have you been read your rights and are you aware of the charges?
no!
well, I will try and get that clarified. as i understand it though, the charges include break and enter, theft, trespass, operating an unlicensed facility, vandalism and destruction of government documents - whatever possessed you to start destroying people's medical records?
they did not look like medical files to me.
well a plea of ignorance will not go far here. frankly, i think you deserve everything that is coming.
regards to her majesty.
before you go, did you get those bruises here?
sure, they wanted to know if i ever voted conservative.
any chance of getting me out on bail?
what is bail?
will they free me?
i do not know - maybe they are talking about it now. mr vitovetch is a good friend of the judge.
will this thing take long?
no, it should be over soon.
you mean it is started?
of course, you can see that lady over there, she is recording everything.
how do i know what is being said?
i will tell you - within a week i will have the transcript and we can go through it.
honey what a pleasant surprise, sorry to keep you waiting.
josh, i have to speak you, it is urgent.
of course darling, you would like to apologise?
can we talk in your office?
so, what have you got to say for yourself? was he good in bed?
josh, i need your help. doug's been arrested, he is in big trouble. i thought maybe your father and the embassy might be able to do something.
you really are a piece of work, you know that? you walk out on me and my family for some worthless bum and you expect us to help him when he screws up.
will you come home and forget all about him?
yes, if you can get him free.
alright, I will see to it and things'll be just as they were, okay?
chris! tell me some good news.
tell me some bad news?
i do not want to ruin your day.
that bad?
your too good for this town, buddy.
so i hear.
huh?
i had a visit from the british embassy. they think I am a stray soccer hooligan.
they am not the only ones.
i stopped by your office. henry was steaming, he says he is going to throw you out of the window and that you never worked at the bugler.
he got that one right.
honza says they will print an open letter to president havel in next weeks edition even if they have to threaten a walk-out.
they are good guys..... have you seen holly?
no, but i ran into jahn, seems him and his friends are in big trouble with the university, they might even be expelled.
damn!
did you see a lawyer and go before a judge?
yeah. i tell you, they are one big happy family over there.
what happened?
i do not know, I am waiting for the transcript.
you are kidding.
well, the trial's in two weeks, but i think they have already sentenced me. they just need to check if siberia can slot me in.
we gotta think of something.
now you are using that word.
i could try and get a western lawyer.
you know, there is one thing i can not figure out. all along they have been bugging me about those files and when i told them I would burned all that stuff, they went nuts - they told the consul guy they were medical records?
so?
well, it seems they have dropped any charge relating to the files.
lucky break!
maybe, but I have started to wonder what those files were all about. suppose it was old kgb stuff and had the dirt on big people or maybe the personnel records of the secret police, that might explain all the hassle and the cover-up.
did you see anything in the files?
it was all in czech was not it.
what happened to those disks i gave you, have you still got them?
yeah, somewhere?
suppose those contained all the file info too? you could have a third or so of it there.
do you want me to see what is on them?
no point, it will be in czech and god knows what format. but if I am right, they could be my ticket out of here.
and if you are wrong.
siberia.
what do you want me to do?
get me one of the disks. ask a czech girl to smuggle it in to me this evening. put the others in a locker and write the details in a note to reuters and be ready to send it, if this does not work. you would better keep clear of your apartment too. do you know someone with a phone?
yeah, dave walters.
good, what is his number?
it's...42 56 76 .
42 56 76......... okay, you wait at dave's for my call tomorrow, if you do not hear from me by three o'clock, send that note and get out of the country fast.
doug, i can not just leave you!
you are in the clear, keep it that way, I will be okay.
if i cut a deal, I am not staying in this country and i want holly to come with me. so, if she does not come here today, you are going to have to get her to me tomorrow; after i call, promise?
sure....anything else i can do for you?
you could give me your baseball, so i can drive this bastard nuts.....he's been playing chequers for eight hours and still has not won a game.
i thought for sure they would catch me.
thanks.
will it help to get you out?
i hope so!
if you get out can we be together again.
I am no good for you katka, besides i will not be able to stay in prague.
but we could go to london and live in england.
no kat, i lied to you, i hate england and i do not ever want to live there again.
i do not understand, it is your home?
there is nothing there for me.
I am sorry about what i said, really i am. just take me with you, i do not care where.
forget about me kat.
but i love you!
it was a mistake, i never wanted to hurt you, but it had to end sooner or later and now, well now i love someone else.
no, it is not true, you are lying.
not this time, kat.
enjoying our hospitality?
no!
we will have to see what more we can do for you, while you are still our guest.
thanks, but i do not intend to stay.
really!
i lied to you, i did not destroy the floppy disks.
good try mr. greenwell but a little late. we have analyzed the contents of that drum, the remains of the disks are there, just as you said.
not all of them!
you are playing a very dangerous game, i suggest you make it easy on yourself and tell me where they are.
i did not get to see what is on the disks but i can guess. do you want to hear my terms or not.
what is it you want?
first, i want to walk free with a letter, in english, from the prosecutor general dropping all charges. second, i want two first class tickets to london leaving tonight and three thousand crowns in a stamped envelope. lastly, all actions against the students are to be stopped!
I am not sure it is possible.
the choice is yours, it is not negotiable.
and there has been enquiries from the american embassy maybe they are involved?
all the more reason to eliminate him.
what if his accomplices have made copies?
it was all on a russian format, i do not think that would be so easy; we must take that chance.
delay mr greenwell's departure until the disks have been located and you have notified me. then, have one of your officers drive him home - I will see to the rest.
very well.
subtitles) you have made many mistakes pavel, let there be no more, for your sake.
and the students?
i have the director's word, there will be no action against them. you may go once we have the disks.
how do i know this is not a trap?
you have the letter and my word, if you wish you may wait upstairs....now, where are the disks?
I will need to make a phone call.
you may use my office.
would you like your things now?
yeah!
release mr greenwell's possessions.
central station, locker number 139 - combination jfk.
good, wait here, it will not take long and then you may go.
i can not go with him.
look, i do not care whether you go with doug or not, but you_ve got to see him before he leaves.
you do not understand, i can't!
listen, doug took the rap for us all so grab your coat 'cause you are going.
i made a deal with josh.
what?
it was a condition of getting doug out.
what are you talking about?
in return for doug's freedom, i was never to see him again, i had to - it was his only chance.
josh did not get doug out of jail, he did a deal in return for some computer disks we would held onto.
you mean, josh's father had nothing to do with it?
no!
you are sure?
sure I am sure!
well, he should be on his way back to his apartment by now.
do you know the way?
sure, it is on the red metro line you....
no, by road?
yeah, pretty well.
good we will take josh's jeep, come on!
we had a deal!
yes, you are free to go, karel here will drive you home.
that is okay i like the metro, it is only a couple of stops from here.
i insist, it is the least we can do.
take this exit.
that one?
yeah!
jesus holly, we got enough time.
okay, but i do not want to miss him.
follow that budjovice sign.
it is that one is not it.
yeah....shit, those guys have guns.
there shooting at something.
doug?
turn around quick!
god, i think i need a holiday.
some deal you did there!
i should have read the fine print.  i love you holly, thanks.
what about me?
here!
where did you steal the car?
it is josh's.
cool....either of you know the way to krakow?
