hello, austin. this is basil exposition, chief of british intelligence.  you are austin powers, international man of mystery, and you are with agent mrs. kensington. the year is 1967, and you are talking on a picture phone.
we know all that, exposition.
i just wanted to be extremely clear so that everyone knows what is going on at any given time. we have just received word that dr. evil, the ultimate square, is planning to take over the world.
dr. evil? i thought i put him in jail for good.
I am afraid not. earlier this week, dr. evil escaped from zedel edel prison in baaden baaden and now he is planning a trap for you tonight at the electric psychedelic pussycat swinger's club in picadilly circus here in swinging london.
just where you would never think to look for him. we will be there.
good luck, austin.
thank you.
oh, and austin...
yes?
be careful.
thank you.  let's go, baby!
hey austin powers, it is me, mick jagger.
hey, mick!
are you more satisfied now sexually, austin?
well, you can not always get what you want.
"you can not always get what you want!" that is a great title for a song! I am going to write that, and it will be a big hit.
good on ya, man.
groovy!
austin powers? hi, I am andy warhol.
hey, how are you?
hungry.
here, have this can of campbell's tomato soup.
I am going to paint this can of soup and become famous and not give you any credit for it.
if you can become famous, everyone will have their fifteen minutes of fame, man.
"fifteen minutes of fame?" I am going to use that quote and not give you any credit for that, either.
smashing!
commander, this is slater in sowest com three. we have a potential bogey with erratic vectoring and an unorthodox entry angle.
is it one of ours?
no. log com bird twelve says its metalurg recon analysis is a standard alloy, not stealthy, not carbon- composite.  it does have an odd shape, sir.
what are you saying, son?
it appears to be in the shape of bob's big boy, sir.
oh my god, he is back.
in many ways, bob's big boy never left, sir. he is always offered the same high quality meals at competitive prices.
shut up.
should we scramble tachq for an intercept?
what is its current position?
commander, i have to log it...
that is a direct order. you did not see a thing!
where am i?
you are in the ministry of defense. it is 1997. you have been cryogenically frozen for thirty years.
who are these people?
the shouting is a temporary side- effect of the unfreezing process.
yes, I am having trouble controlling...  the volume of my voice!
you might also experience a slight fever, dry mouth, and flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation. austin, this is commander gilmour, strategic command, and general borschevsky, russian intelligence.
russian intelligence? are you mad?
a lot's happened since you were frozen, austin. the cold war's over.
thank god. those capitalist dogs will finally pay for their crimes against the people, hey comrades?
we won, austin.
groovy. smashing! good on ya!  nice tie. yea capitalism!
when do i begin?
immediately. you will be working with ms. kensington.
you mean mrs. kensington?
no, austin, mrs. kensington has long- since retired. ms.  kensington is her daughter.
vanessa's one of our top agents.
my god, vanessa's got a smashing body. i bet she shags like a minx. how do i tell them that because of the unfreezing process, i have no inner monologue?  i hope i did not say that out loud just now.
mr. powers, my job is to acclimate you to the nineties. you know, a lot's changed since 1967.
well, as long as people are still having promiscuous sex with many anonymous partners without protection, while at the same time experimenting with mind-expanding drugs in a consequence-free environment, I will be sound as a pound.
my mother's told me all about you.
if it is a lie, goddamn her. it it is the truth, goddamn me.  god, i hope that is witty. how is your mum?
my mother's doing quite well, thank you very much.
yes, well...agent kensington will get you set up. she is very dedicated. perhaps, a little too dedicated.  she is got a bit of a bug up her ass. good luck, austin, the world's depending on you.
thank you, exposition.
oh, and austin...
yes?
be careful.
thanks.
danger powers, personal effects.
actually, my name's austin powers.
it says here, name danger powers.
danger's my middle name.
ok, austin danger powers: one blue crushed-velvet suit. one frilly lace cravat. one gold medallion with peace symbol. one pair of italian shoes. one pair of tie-dyed socks, purple. one vinyl recording album: tom jones, live at las vegas. one swedish-made penis enlarger pump.
that is not mine.
one credit card receipt for swedish- made penis enlarger pump, signed austin powers.
I am telling you, baby, that is not mine.
one warranty card for swedish-made penis enlarger pump, filled out by austin powers.
i do not even know what this is. this sort of thing am not my bag, baby.
one book: swedish-made penis enlarger pumps and me: this sort of thing is my bag, baby, by austin powers.
ok, ok, man, do not get heavy, I will sign. just to get things moving, baby.
listen, mr. powers, i look forward to working with you, but do me a favor and stop calling me baby. you can address me as agent kensington. we have to leave immediately. we have preserved your private jet just as you left it. it is waiting at heathrow airport.
my jumbo jet? smashing baby.
pretty groovy jumbo jet, eh? how does a hot chick like you end up working at the ministry of defense?
i went to oxford and excelled in several subjects, but i ended up specializing in foreign languages. i wanted to travel -- see the world. in my last year i was accepted into the m.o.d. in the cultural studies sector. i thought i was off on an exciting career, but my job was to read everything printed in every country. it is very boring. my whole day is spent reading wedding announcements in farsi. if i do well with this case, i finally get promoted to field operative...
that is fascinating, vanessa. listen, why do not we go into the back and shag?
i beg your pardon?
I have been frozen for thirty years, man, i want to see if my bits and pieces are still working.
excuse me?
my wedding tackle.
I am sorry?
my meat and two veg.
mr. powers, please. i know that you must be a little confused, but we have a very serious situation at hand. i would appreciate it if you would concentrate on our mission and give your libido a rest.
have you ever made love to a chigro?
a chigro?
you know, a chigro... part chinese, part negro...  chigro.
we do not use the term 'negro' anymore. it is considered offensive.
that is right. you are supposed to say 'colored' now, right?  here's the stewardesses! bring on the sexy stews!
brrrr! she must be frigid. there is two things i know about life: one, americans will never take to soccer. two, swedish girls and stewardesses love to shag!  they are shag-mad, man! let me ask you a question, vanessa, and be honest.
sure.
do i make you horny?
what?
do i make you horny? randy, you know. to you, am i eros manifest?
i hope this is part of the unfreezing process.
listen, vanessa, I am a swinger... that is what i do, i swing.
i understand that, mr. powers, but let me be perfectly clear with you, perhaps to the point of being insulting. i will never have sex with you, ever.  if you were the last man on earth and i was the last woman on earth, and the future of the human race depended on our having sex simply for procreation, i still would not have sex with you.
hello austin. hello vanessa. this is basil exposition, from british intelligence.  there is a company in las vegas called virtucon that we think may be linked to dr. evil. many of the virtucon executives gamble at the hotel/casino where you will be staying. that is the first place you should look.  well, I am off to the chat rooms.
thank you, exposition.
oh, and austin...
yes?
be careful.
but my design was perfect!  your autonomic functions were shut down, and even though your arm was not frozen, the aging was retarded, therefore your right arm is only slightly older than the left.
can not you see I am only half a man? look at me, I am a freak!
but dr. evil, all you need to do is--  --work with this tennis ball. squeeze it for twenty minutes a day. a few months of that and it will be just as strong as the other arm...
and look what you have done to mr. bigglesworth!
we could not anticipate feline complications due to the reanimation process&emdash;
silence!
ahhhhhhhhh!
let this be a reminder to you all that this organization will not tolerate failure.
we have got a lot of work to do.
someone help me! I am still alive, only I am very badly burned.
some of you i know, some of you I am meeting for the first time.
hello up there! anyone! can someone call an ambulance? I am in quite a lot of pain.
you have all been gathered here to form my evil cabinet. excuse me.
ow! you shot me!
right. okay. moving on.
you shot me right in the arm!  why did--
we also own the franklin mint, which makes decorative hand-painted theme plates for collectors.  some plates, like the gone with the wind series, have gone up in value as much as two-hundred and forty percent, but, as with any investment, there is some risk involved.
gentlemen, i have a plan. it is called blackmail. the royal family of britain are the wealthiest landowners in the world. either the royal family pays us an exorbitant amount of money, or we make it look like prince charles, the heir to the throne, has had an affair outside of marriage and, therefore, they would have to divorce.
um, dr. evil, prince charles did have an affair. he admitted it, and they are now divorced, actually.
people have to tell me these things. I have been frozen for thirty years, throw me a bone here.  ok, no problem. here's my second plan. back in the sixties i had a weather changing machine that was in essence a sophisticated heat beam which we called a "laser."  using this laser, we punch a hole in the protective layer around the earth, which we scientists call the "ozone layer." slowly but surely, ultraviolet rays would pour in, increasing the risk of skin cancer. that is, unless the world pays us a hefty ransom.
umm, that also has already happened.
right.  oh, hell, let's just do what we always do. let's hijack some nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage.  gentlemen, it is come to my attention that a breakaway russian republic called kreplachistan will be transferring a nuclear warhead to the united nations in a few days. here's the plan. we get the warhead, and we hold the world ransom...  ...for one million dollars!
do not you think we should ask for more than a million dollars? a million dollars is not that much money these days.
all right then...  ...five million dollars!
virtucon alone makes over nine billion dollars a year.
oh, really?  one-hundred billion dollars.  ok, make it happen. anything else?
remember when we froze your semen, you said that if it looked like you were not coming back to try and make you a son so that a part of you would live forever?
yes.
well, after a few years, we got sort of impatient. dr. evil, i want you to meet your son.
my son?
yes.  scott!
hi.
hello, scott. I am your father, dr. evil.  i have a son! i have a son! everyone, i have a son!  someday, scott, this will all be yours.
i have not seen you my whole life and now you show up and want a relationship? i hate you!
you have preserved my jag! smashing!
yes, we have had it retrofitted with a secure cellular phone, an on-board computer, and a global geosynchronous positioning device. oh, and finally, this.
let me guess. the floss is garotte wire, the toothpaste contains plastic explosives, and the toothbrush is the detonation device.
no, actually. i do not know how to put this really. well, there have been fabulous advances in the field of dentistry.
why? what is wrong with my teeth?
hey, who put this in here? someone is playing a prank on me!  honestly, this is not mine.
I am sure.
i think I will give that stew a ding-a- ling.
i love las vegas, man. oh, i forgot my x-ray glasses.
here, use mine.
I am going to use a cover name. it is important that it be a generic name so that we do not draw attention to ourselves.
i can not see a bloody thing.
oh, i forgot to tell you, they are prescription x-ray glasses. i have very bad astigmatism.
why did you leave so soon?
that cat number two has an x-ray eyepatch. i get bad vibes from him, man. listen, we should go back to the room, but first i have to go to the naughty chair and see a man about a dog.
oh, hello vanessa. how was the flight?
great.
how is austin?
he is asleep.
you didn't...
oh, god no, i made him sleep on the couch.
I am proud of you.
why?
because you managed to resist austin power's charms.
well, god knows he tried, but I have been rather firm with him, mummy. you did not tell me he was so obsessed with sex. it is bizarre.
you can not judge him by modern standards. he is very much a product of his times. in my day he could have any woman he wanted.
what about his teeth?
you have to understand, in britain in the sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth. it did not matter.
i just do not see it.
just wait. once austin gets you in his charms, it is impossible to get out.
did you ever...
of course not. i was married to your father.
did you ever want to?
austin is very charming, very debonair. he is handsome, witty, has a knowledge of fine wines, sophisticated, a world-renowned photographer. women want him, men want to be him. he is a lover of love-- every bit an international man of mystery.
you did not answer my question, mum.
i know. let me just say this: austin was the most loyal and caring friend i ever had.
good morning, luv, who are you on the phone with?
do you want to talk to him?
no, it is been too long. best to leave things alone.
I am on with a friend!  look, I would better go. i love you.
i love you, vanessa.
good morning, vanessa! i hope you have on clean underwear.
why?
we have got a doctor's appointment-- an evil doctor's appointment.
a limousine has just pulled up.
let me see.
hello, hello. that is dr. evil's cat.
how do you know?
i never forget a pussy... cat.
let's go get him!
he is too well-protected right now.
we can not just sit here, austin.
let me tell you a story. there is these two bulls on top of a hill checking out some foxy cows in the meadow below. the young bull says, 'hey, why do not we run down the hill and shag us a cow?', and the wise old bull replies, 'no, why do not we walk down the hill and shag all the cows?'
i do not get it.
well, you know... cows, and shagging.
unfortunately, while you told that stupid story, dr. evil has escaped.
no worries, luv. we will just give basil a tinkle on the telling bone...
i hate having my picture taken.
you are crazy. the camera loves you, vanessa.
fancy a nibble?
i could not have another bite.
watch out, you are on my hair!
sorry. move your hand to the left. there you go. gorgeous.
go! just go!
i have not had fun like that since college.
I am sorry.
why?
I am sorry that bug up your ass had to die.
always wanting to have fun, that is you in a nutshell.
no, this is me in a nutshell.
you are smashed, vanessa.
i am not.
oh, yes you are.
I am not. I am the sensible one. I am always the designated driver.
i can't. you are drunk.
it is not that I am drunk, I am just beginning to see what my mum was talking about.  what was my mother like back in the sixties? I am dying to know.
she was very groovy. she was so in love with your dad. if there was one other cat in this world that could have loved your mum and treated her as well as you dad did, it was me. but, unfortunately for yours truly, that train has sailed.
hello, austin, this is basil exposition from british intelligence. thank you for confirming the link between dr. evil and virtucon. find out what part virtucon plays in something called project vulcan. I will need you and vanessa to get on that immediately.
right away, exposition.
where is vanessa, by the way?
she is working on another lead right now.
then you will have to go it alone. good luck.
thank you, basil.
oh, and austin...
yes?
let me remind you that because of the unfreezing process you might experience flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation.
oh, yes. thank you.
there is one more thing, austin.
yes?
be careful.
thank you.
you seem surprised to see me.
i thought you would quit while you were ahead.
what, and watch all my earnings go...  down the toilet?
what do you want, mr... cunningham, was it?
call me ritchie, miss fagina. may i call you alotta...  please?
you may.
your boss, number two, i understand that cat's involved in big underground drills.
virtucon's main interest is in cable television, but they do have a subterranean construction division, yes. how did you know?
i didn't, baby, you just told me.
it is for the mining industry, mr. cunningham. we can talk about business later. but first, let me slip into something more comfortable.
behave!
come in.
I would rather talk about number two.
do not you like girls, mr. cunningham? come in, and I will show you everything you need to know.
may i wash you?
groovy.
in japan, men come first and women come second.
or sometimes not at all.
care for some saki?
sak-i it to me!
how do you feel, mr. cunningham?
mmmm... i feel extreme relaxation.
'pardon me for being rude, it was not me, it was my food.  it just popped up to say hello, and now it is gone back down below.'
that is very clever. do you know any other poems?
'milk, milk, lemonade.  round the corner fudge is made.  stick your finger in the hole, and out comes a tootsie roll!'
thank you, that is beautiful. to your health.
to my health.
kiss me.
do you mind if i ask you a personal question?
is it about my teeth?
yes.
damn. what exactly do you do at virtucon?
I will tell you all in due time, after we make love. but first, tell me another poem.
i think it was wordsworth who penned this little gem: 'press the button, pull the chain, out comes a chocolate choo-choo train.'
oh, you are very clever. let's make love, you silly, hairy little man.
austin powers is getting too close. he must be neutralized. any suggestions?
ya wohl-- i mean, yes wohl, herr doctor. i have created the ultimate weapon to defeat austin powers. bring on the fembots!
breathtaking, frau. these automated strumpets are the perfect bait for the degenerate powers.
these are the latest word in android replicant technology.  lethal, efficient, brutal. and no man can resist their charms. send in the soldiers!
quite impressive.
thank you, herr doctor.
i like to see girls of that caliber. by caliber, i mean both the barrel size of their guns and the high quality of their character... forget it.
hello, exposition.
austin, vanessa, let me bring you up to speed. dr. evil has high- jacked a nuclear warhead from kreplachistan and is holding the world ransom for one-hundred billion dollars. if the world does not pay up in four days, he is threatening to destroy the world.
thank you, exposition. only two things, scare me, and one is nuclear war.
what is the other?
excuse me?
what is the other thing you are scared of?
carnies.
what?
circus folk.  nomads, you know. they smell like cabbage.
indeed... if we could get back to the business at hand. it is one thing to have a warhead, it is quite another thing to have the missiles to launch it.
maybe these photographs are the last piece of that puzzle.  I have uncovered the details on project vulcan. it is a new subterranean warhead delivery system.
good god, and underground missile. we have long feared such a development.
my god, austin, what have you done?
that is not your mother, that is a man!
I am sorry, basil, i thought she was a man.
damn it, man! you are talking about my mother!
you must admit, she is rather mannish. no offense, but if that is a woman, it looks like she is been beaten with an ugly stick.
really, austin!
look at her hands, baby! those are carpenter's hands.
all right, austin, i think you should go.
i think if everyone were honest, they would confess that the lady looks exactly like a man in drag.
I am leaving!  oh, and austin?
yes, basil?
be careful.
thanks.
austin, may i have a word with you?
of course, luv.
listen, i know I am just being neurotic, but i can not shake this suspicious feeling about that italian secretary, ms. fagina. i mean, i do not want to sound paranoid, but I have had some bad relationships in the past, and i have some jealousy issues. you went to her penthouse. it makes me feel so small to give into these insecurities, but i can not help but feel this weird, irrational, unfocused... well, jealousy. I am sorry.
do not be sorry. you are right to be suspicious. i shagged her. i shagged her rotten.
i can not believe you made love to her just like that. did you use protection?
of course, i had my nine-millimeter automatic.
no, did you use a condom?
only sailors use condoms, man.
not in the nineties.
well they should, filthy beggars, they go from port to port.  alotta meant nothing to me.
well, it means something to me. if you want us to have a relationship, you have got to be a one-woman man.
it was just a shag, vanessa. you are everything to me.
you just do not get it, do you, austin? good night. welcome to the nineties, you are going to be very lonely.
hello, luv.
thirty years of political and social upheaval. the fall of the berlin wall, a female prime minister of england, the abolishment of apartheid, a fascinating tapestry of human strum und drang.
yeah, i can not believe liberace was gay. women loved him, man. i did not see that one coming.
basil was very concerned to know where you were last night.
out and about, doing odds and sods.
I will tell him. by the way, I have decided we should keep our relationship strictly professional.
that was great, mr. keon, dave. thank you. ok, group, we have two new member. say hello to scott and his father, mr.... ehville?
evil, actually, doctor evil.
so, scott, why do not we start with you. why are you here?
well, it is kind of weird.
we do not judge here.
ok. well, i just really met my dad for the first time three days ago. he was partially frozen for thirty years. i never knew him growing up. he comes back and now he wants me to take over the family business.
and how do you feel about that?
i do not wanna take over the family business.
but scott, who is going to take over the world when i die?
not me.
what do you want to do, scott?
i do not know. i was thinking, maybe I would be a vet or something, cause i like animals and stuff.
an evil vet?
no. maybe, like, work in a petting zoo or something.
an evil petting zoo?
you always do that!  anyways, this is really hard, because, you know, my dad is really evil.
we do not label people here, scott.
no, he is really evil.
scott.
no, the boy's right. i really am evil.
do not be so hard on yourself. you are here, that is what is important. a journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.
i just think, like, he hates me. i really think he wants to kill me.
ok, scott, no one really wants to "kill" anyone here. they say it, but they do not mean it.
actually, the boy's quite astute. i am trying to kill him. my evil associates have cautioned against it, so here he is, unfortunately, alive.
we have heard from scott, now let's hear from you.
the details of my life are quite inconsequential.
that is not true, doctor. please, tell us about your childhood.
since I have been unfrozen, I have had a rancid taste in my mouth. do you have a piece of gum?
do you think she is prettier than i?
who?
you know who.
no! do not lay your hang-ups on me, vanessa. you are being very trippy.
I am looking at you, and the whole time i can not help thinking you had your willie inside her hootchie-kooch.
austin, we do not look anything like our photo badges.
do not worry, baby. i picked up a mind control technique during my travels to india. i learned it from my guru, the late guru shastri, a chaste man who mysteriously died of a disease that had all the hallmarks of syphilis.  just watch me. watch me, now.
hi, folks. you are entering a restricted zone. can i see your security badges?
sure.
everything seems to be in order.
hey, wait a minute--
here, have a piece of gum.
here, have a piece of gum.
do not mind if i do.
hey! wait a minute, that is my last piece of gum.
no, no, i want you to have it, even if it is my last piece.
no, no, i want you to have it, even if it is my last piece.
I am going to go across the street and get you some sherbert.
noooooooooooooo!
where did you learn to shoot?
thank god, austin, we made it.
yes, act naturally and we will split this scene the way we came in, vanessa.
what is wrong with your hand?
do not try to suck up to me! it is a little late for that. I am a freak! look at it, it is been rendered useless.
I am sorry, baby, I am just not grocking your head space.
oh forget it. as a fellow player on the international stage, mr.  powers, I am sure you will enjoy watching the curtain fall on the third and final act.
does that make you horny?
not now, austin.
scott my boy, come here. how was your day?
well, me and a buddy went to the video arcade in town and, like, they do not speak english right, and so my buddy gets into a fight, and he goes 'hey, quit hassling me cause i do not speak french or whatever', and the other guy goes something in paris talk, and i go 'um, just back off' and he goes 'get out' and i go 'make me'.
fascinating. what are your plans for this evening?
thought I would stay in. there is a good tittie movie on skinemax.
and that is how you want to live your life, is it?
yeah. what?
scott, i want you to meet daddy's nemesis, austin powers.
why are you feeding him? why do not you just kill him?
in due time.
but what if he escapes? why do not you just shoot him? what are you waiting for?
i have a better idea. I am going to put him in an easily-escapable situation involving an overly- elaborate and exotic death.
why do not you just shoot him now? here, I will get a gun. we will just shoot him. bang! dead. done.
one more peep out of you and you are grounded. let's begin.
dr. evil, do you really expect them to pay?
no, mr. powers, i expect them to die. even after they pay me the money, I am still going to melt all the cities of the world with hot magma.  all right, guard, begin the unnecessarily slow-moving dipping mechanism.
release the sharks!  all the sharks have had laser beams attached to their heads. i figure every creature deserves a warm meal.
dr. evil?
yes, what is it? you are interrupting my moment of triumph.
it is about the sharks. since you were frozen, they have been placed on the endangered species list. we tried to get some, but it will take months to clear up the red tape.
right.  mr. powers, we are going to lower you in a tank of piranhas with laser beams attached to their heads.
what is it now?
well, we experimented with lasers, but you would be surprised at how heavy they are. they actually outweighed the piranha themselves, and the fish, well, they sank to the bottom and died.
i have one simple request-- sharks with friggin' laser beams attached to their heads, and it can not be done? remind me again why i pay you people? what do we have?
sea bass.
right.
they are mutated sea bass.
really? are they ill-tempered?
please allow me to demonstrate.
fine. whatever. mutated, ill-tempered sea bass it is.  come, let's return to dinner. close the tank.
are not you going to watch them? they will get away!
no, we will leave them alone and not actually witness them dying, and we will just assume it all went to plan.
i have a gun in my room. give me five seconds, I will come back and blow their brains out.
no, scott. you just do not get it, do you?
first, i plan to soil myself. then, i plan to regroup and think about the next move. any thoughts?
sadly, no. hold on! i always keep this on me just in case.
all right, i get it. i have bad teeth. you have to understand, in britain in the sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth. it did not matter.
no, no, no. we will use the floss to get to the ledge.
smashing idea! give it to me.
not a good time to lose one's head.
indeed.
that is not the way to get ahead in life.
yes.
it is a shame he was not more headstrong.
shut up.
fair enough.
what do we do now?
we have got a freaked out square and world annihilation is his bag.  you go get help. I am going to stay here and keep an eye on the bad doctor.
I am not going anywhere. we are a team.
too right, youth. that is why i need you to lead the troops.
I will hurry back.
listen, vanessa, whatever happens, i just want you to know that i feel bad about shagging that italian girl. i had a sip of sake and all of the sudden, i do not know what happened. the whole time i was shagging her-- i mean really shagging her, i mean it was crazy, i was like a huge mechanical piston, in and out, in and out!--
austin, what is your point?
anyways, what I am trying to say is that if you want me to be a one-woman man, well, that is just groovy, because... i love you.
oh, behave!
come, everyone, let us repair to the main chamber. project vulcan is about to begin. scott, are you coming?
i do not want to.
do not you want to see what daddy does for a living?
blow me.
what did you say?
show me.
it is not what it looks like, vanessa.  at ease, boys.
likewise.
i can explain. they attacked me. gas came out of her...well, and then they... and i...
i believe you, austin. let's go.
hold on a tick, let me put on my togs.
follow me! we are going to have to jump over the rail!
are you crazy?
do not worry!
austin, I am coming with you.
I am going it alone this time, vanessa. i have a follow-up visit with the evil doctor.
I will secure the perimeter.
good afternoon, mr. powers, I am the destructacon 5000. I am programmed to prevent you from progressing beyond this point. you might as well surrender. resistance is futile. your odds of survival are 23,763,273 to...
well, destructacon 5000, you have quite a head on your shoulders, i dare to coin.
yes, i am programmed to answer any question.
really? let me ask you this. what is love?
that does not compute.
why not? it is a question.
love is... love is... love is...
I have got you, dr. evil!
well done, mr. powers. we are not so different, you and i. it is true, you are british, and I am belgian. you have a full head of hair, mine is slightly receding. you are thin, I am about forty pounds overweight. ok, we are different, I am not making a very good point. however, is not it ironic, mr. powers, that the very things you stand for-- swinging, free love, parties, distrust of authority- are all now, in the nineties, considered to be... evil? maybe we have more in common than you care to admit.
no, man, what we swingers were rebelling against were uptight squares like you, whose bag was money and world domination. we were innocent, man. if we would known the consequences of our sexual liberation, we would have done things differently, but the spirit would have remained the same.  it is freedom, man.
your freedom has cause more pain and suffering in the world than any plan i ever dreamed of. face it, freedom failed.
that is why right now is a very groovy time, man. we still have freedom, but we also have responsibility.
really, there is nothing more pathetic than an aging hipster.
it seems the tables have turned again, dr. evil.
not really. kill the little bastard. see what i care.
man, you are one chilly square!
dad, we just made a breakthrough in group!
i had the group liquidated, you little shit. they were insolent.
i hate you! i hate you! i wish i was never artificially created in a lab.
scott, do not say that...
i have something to tell you.
lay it on me.
i love you, austin.
that is fab, because i love you, too, vanessa.
kiss me.
behave!
well, austin, you have stopped dr. evil from destroying the world with his subterranean nuclear probe, and somehow you and agent kensington managed to escape unscathed from his evil lair.
I would say that about sums it up, exposition.
not quite, actually. vanessa, i have something for you.
congratulations, field agent kensington!
austin, i have something for you as well.
here's the number of my dentist, he is first rate. ring him up, he will look after you.
thanks, basil. maybe the nineties are not so bad after all.
but, wait, i-- you got me again. oh, and austin--
yes basil?
be careful!
