it does not go like that.
who asked you?
if you do it like that it will open in the fire. then you will get burned and die.
who is going to die?
brian. he is not doing it right, dad. he never does it right.
well, let's have a look.
your brother's right. if you do not fasten these correctly they could open and you would get burned.
and die!
fireman shit?
hey, what is with the mouth? where did you grow up, a barn?
firehouse.
cute.
dad!
you have come along a dozen times, stephen, give your brother a chance. we will be back in a few minutes.  how 'bout it, sport?
if it was a joke, sir, you would be laughing.
you walked out on this academy six years ago. one week to graduation. you think we forgot that? you think i did?
i want another shot, sir.
look, everybody remembers your old man. being his son, all you had to do was breathe to graduate here. dead hero father rule. but you blew us off. why should i take you back?
if you remember, sir, my test scores were in the top --
-- i do not give a damn what your test scores were, maybe you could have been a good firemen, but you had your shot.
i need another one, sir.
sorry, but it is out of my hands. try again next year.
no, it is not out of your hands or you would not even have met me. if i push you have to let me back in. dead hero father rule. sir.
even if you graduate this academy, you have still got nine months of probation. that is hard duty, son. if you do not really love this job, it will kill you.
see you monday. sir.
completely out of control.
what the hell are we waiting for?
well, if it is not the littlest mccaffrey.  hey! you break anything with that you buy it!  sorry, there must be something wrong with my eyes. i keep thinking that is a fire department uniform.
it is in my blood, willy.
really. well, let's have a look at what else was "in your blood". i always look forward to getting these, they make such a nice collage for the bar... "assistant director, sales, aspen snowmobile tours..."
did not offer the kinda growth and challenge i need.
uh huh. and "pioneer's pride, mobile log cabins". that was in your blood about six months was not it?
management were pin heads.
"laguna jamming, custom surfboards"?
coffee sucked.
and just this year, "brian's sound spectrum". your own company even. big step.
i was ahead of my time.
you know, I have got a perfect little spot here for "brian mccaffrey, fireman"...
are not you even curious?
engine 115, right?
how did you know? these are supposed to be sealed.
lucky guess.  and a case of scotch to a captain in station assignments.
you crooked son of a bitch. why 115?
lots of fires. they promote faster there. take a look at the last lt.'s list, half the guys on it came from that battalion. got to think about your future, timmy. 115's the station.
ah man, if you are going to bribe your way into a station, why not 17 with me and your brother?
brian.
jennifer.
you are back.
you look great.
thanks for calling.
uh... I have been sorta keeping a low profile... the academy... i graduated today.
huh.
so... i see you are still in the neighborhood.
not quite. just visiting. i live in lincoln park now.
yeah? what have you been up to?
i work for city hall.
really? no kidding.
what, you think i just dried up and blew away when you left? the world does turn once in awhile brian, even without your permission.
well, if nothing else, it is nice to know we can still be friends.
i do not want to be your friend, brian.
man. something sure put a crimp in his evening.
backdraft.
well, look what we have here. nice costume. rent it?
i want to thank you for coming to my graduation, stephen. it was a great inspiration to me.
so you are going to fight fires now, huh?
does not work on you.  see ya around, little brother.
not likely.
well, see you are wrong already. had a talk with chief fitzgerald, and we decided in the interest of brotherly love, that maybe you should not be way over on the other side of town. so starting tomorrow, your assigned to company 17. my company.  one case of scotch, you are getting cheap in your old age, brian...
got a cause?
are the glory boys actually showing interest in investigation's work? i may have a stroke.
the glory boys just want to finish their report so they can go home.
brian?
hi, helen. man, you look great.
you look like... brian.
'bout written you off. how long have you been in town?
four months.
four months?
i know, i know, should'a called. I have been really busy. i joined the fire department.
that is sean? jeez, he is a giant.
yeah, you would be surprised what three years can do to a kid.
sean, come on out, man. what, you forget your favorite uncle?
stephen told him you were killed in a hot tub accident.
well that is two things to strangle stephen for. where is he, anyway?
stephen's not staying here now, brian. he moved out last april.
oh, man, I am sorry.
you guys ought to try picking up a phone once in awhile.
i like what you have done with the place.
it is comin' along... want a beer?
been ripping off fire stations?
it is old stuff adcox gave me that the department was going to throw out anyway. still good enough though for this tub.
my god, an actual operating 8-track.
what, you have never seen one before?
in the field museum once.
it works.
it worked when you were in sixth grade.
people actually used to pay you for this?
millions, stephen -- and sexual favors.
sheep do not count.
yeah? what about laura --
that was never proved.
why did you come here, brian?
i wanted to know why you messed with my station assignment. i mean, is this really going to have to one of those big brother -- little brother "you broke my gi joe and I am still pissed" games?
what is it with you, man, huh? how do you manage to keep coming up with new and amazing ways to screw up? that scotch bullshit? am i really supposed to believe you came crawling back home because you suddenly felt heart strings moan for the family biz? you were bankrupt, man.
hey! you do not know me --
i know you cold, brian. the scary thing is, you probably could have faked it for awhile. but you see, in this job there is no place to hide. is not like selling log cabins. you have a bad day here -- someone dies. and that is not fucking good enough. want another beer?
so that is it? big bad brother's going to ride my ass till i cough blood?
big bad brother is going to treat you like any other probie -- that i do not think is going to make it.
there is only so much technology can do.  thanks for the beer.
thanks for the speakers.
y'know, i told myself a million times i did not want to be a fireman. i said bullshit to that line about tradition and family legacy. i know i split, and i know how you felt...
yeah, you know. you know what it felt like.
i gotta do this, stephen. i gotta know.
i think you are going to find out, brian. do not be late tomorrow.
i hate it when we gotta fucking go look for it.
call in another alarm. we are going to need some back-up.
oh these moments do try me...
be gentle.
wash it to the windows?
no, we will hit the son of a bitch head on.
it is going to flash, stevie. we got to get behind it.
nah, listen to it. it is a pussy. it will just steam on us. it will not flash. go high in the ceiling.
ya love it, probie?
I am in heaven, lt.
hook us up to a stand-pipe.
y'know, you got an awful short memory for direct orders. i told you to stay beside me.
-- c'mon, stephen.
-- you split the team, man. and what was that crap with the standpipe? you would think you and a hose were never introduced before.
goddamn it stephen!
-- i told you to stay next to me!
-- i was doin' it! i was up there fucking doin' it. you do not know, man, you do not know what i did!
what you did was drop the ball, probie. get that right.
hey, baby mccaffrey. first one's the clincher. you did okay.
my lt. might have something to say about that.
ah, everybody screws up some, brian. you are working for the toughest lt. on the job. saw him once pick up a probie he thought was moving too slow and throw him into a burning building. it is just bad luck you are family.
john, when you are in there... in the fire... do you ever see...
c'mon ladies, let's roll some hose...
-- never mind.
alderman swayzak.
investigator rimgale.
i need to get in the trunk.
that is franny. she likes firemen.
tim, fill out the alarm card.  clean the pipe poles, wipe down the ladders and hang some hose.
do you have to do that?
could you believe that fire? man! first day! there i was, adcox and me, pullin' that lady right out of the fire's fuckin' throat! i love it here -- no surround and drown for this company. fighting 17th! goddamn stephen's amazing. you see how he took that fire by the balls? I am going to be that good some day, you watch.
y'know what stephen said to me, right when all the shit was coming hard? "you never know till the moment the fire stares you down if you are just going to do this job or be great at it".
ah man, is he usin' that line now on you? what, you think he made that little gem up? jesus christ, i used to have to listen to my old man use that every morning.
thanks.
brian --  -- see ya tonight.
hey.
hey.
with grenadine, right?
when i was twenty.
oooh, very sophisticated. having fun?
look, I am not the same girl who had nothing better to do than wrap her legs around you on a saturday night. this is not about fun. I am working here.
carrying swayzak's notebook?
let me tell you something. martin swayzak is going to be this town's next mayor.
yeah. swayzak. humanity's last hope. how can you work for that guy?
why do you think marty came here tonight? because he cares about your department. you do not know how hard he works. you do not know about his programs helping west side --
-- all i know is that his programs are getting firemen hurt.
bullshit. marty's plan is only about efficiency. I have got two cousins on the job, you think I would work for him if i did not believe in it?
what was that? oh man, you have picked up a few moves since john paul ii boulevard.
yeah, well i like to think I am just a little past hanging out on jp ii watching the irish pick fights and litwalks barf in the planters.
i seem to remember some pretty good nights on jp ii.
what?
"probationary fireman brian mccaffrey, on his very first fire, showed the kind of bravery and courage of a veteran firefighter when he risked life and limb to double-check a burning floor alone, emerging victoriously with anna rodriguez, a seamstress for the north shore clothing company... mccaffrey first gained prominence as the subject of a 1972 pulitzer prize winning photograph taken at the scene of his father's death..."
yeah. big fan.
and I am a huge fan of what you did to save that woman, brian.
uh, i think there is been a mistake. i did not save that woman.
no need to be modest, brian.
no, you do not understand, i saved a mannequin.
-- that really was incredibly work you did. you and your brother, fighting fires together, helluva image, is not it? you must feel lucky to be assigned under his command.
every little boy's fantasy.
brian, let me come to the point. I would like to offer you a job.
i have a job.
this one's still with the fire department. one of our best investigators, don rimgale, is working on a very difficult, visible case right now. we think he could use another pair of hands and you are exactly the kind of guy i want representing us: an authentic hero from a traditional firefighting clan.
yeah, we got all kinds of traditions -- like dying young.
not every job in the fire department comes with a tombstone, brian. this could be a great opportunity to move... beyond a fire engine.
boy, took you all of thirty seconds to blow that.
c'mon jennifer, he is just another north-side jag-off with a mouth.
brian, do you always have to be so stupid? think about your future for once.
so now you suddenly care about my future?
look, i did not mean to take a piece out of you back there, i just thought you would call when you came back. you did not and...  do not blow it just because of this garbage between us.
hey, sorry if i made you look bad in front of your boss. but I am not going to be a poster boy for him, I am trying to do something here. there is five hundred smoke eaters in this room that do that stuff for real every day. tell swayzak to talk to one of them.
uh, helen, i wanted to talk to you a second about sean...
stephen, I am kinda busy here, can we talk about this later?
you can not talk about my brother like that...
here we go...
goddamn it, stephen, lay off!  you stupid dumbshit, you never know when to fucking quit, do you? you ever wonder why your career's in the fucking toilet? why you are going to be stuck a lt. for life?
no.  i need a drink.
so you got a 'roid going with jackson or what?
nah, he is nothin'. it is just sometimes... sometimes you just got to punch somebody out, y'know?
look, brian, a photographer. maybe i can get on the cover of life magazine, too.
c'mon, let's crawl home.
jesus, it is too damn bright in here... like a goddamn spotlight... I am goin' blind...
this?
yeah... too bright...
you know knowlton pretty well?
yeah...
kind of an asshole, was not he?
biggest in two battalions.
we are going to be okay, man...
roll the hose.
what, are you kidding? by myself?
what, is it the stairs? christ, I will let you win next time.
you got a problem with drilling, probie?
no, lt., i do not have a problem with drilling. but let's just have one drill. not one for the company and one for me.
roll the hose.
ready?
christ, stephen, let's wait for the hose team...
listen to it, brian... jump when i say... it will not get us.
you okay?
i waited... i would have fucking waited...
that is not what it is about, brian. the point is there was a kid in there. and what if there would been two? i went in because that is what i do. it is my way. it is dad's way. it is not everybody's way.
dad's way? where did he tell you that? in a fucking seance?
you said you wanted to know something, brian. what did you learn today?  what do you say, brian, huh? time to move on?
I have been thinking about what you said the other night... if the offer's still on the table, I would like to talk about it.
...okay. I will arrange things with your assignment captain.  marty's a good man, brian.
yeah...
uh, I am brian mccaffrey. your new assistant.
your dennis' kid.  i work alone.
are you still here?
get used to me, inspector. I am not going anywhere.
then go find a corner. i do not want you in my way.
i think we should get something straight here. i was assigned to this office by the city.
look, i knew your father, he had a helluva reputation on this job. but that do not mean you get any slack. swayzak sends you down here, okay, i got to eat you, that is the rules and i got nothing to say about that. but swayzak or no, you live with me. step out of line, and i do not care who knows you, I will swing the hammer.  you think you are the first?
where are you going?
pest control.
shadow.
how ya doin', ronald. staying comfortable?
did not think you would make it.
would not miss this for the world, pal.
who is this?
he works for me.
is he a fireman?  i like firemen.
you like everybody, ronald.
brian mccaffrey...  oh this is really a treat. brian mccaffrey. lost a dad to the animal, huh?
hey, do i know you?
you do not know him.
i know you.
knock it off. now.
tell him about me, shadow?
ronald here likes telephones. used to tape wooden matches to the bell striker and wrap it in cotton. came up with a whole little thing there, did not you ronald? when you got bored, what did you do? you just started making calls... mostly day care centers and retirement homes, was not it?
did he tell you how we finally met?
nobody cares, ronald.
oh, but it is a good story, shadow. you are depriving our famous young friend here...
sure ronald? you are ready alright.
absolutely.
-- burn them.
and old ladies?
-- burn them.
and the world -- the whole world.
-- burn it all.
-- shhh.
what are you listening to?
so you were happy here. warm and cozy and in no hurry...  soot high, clean unburned wall low, indicates slow burn in thermal balance.  find me some glass.
glass?
do we have a language barrier here? glass.
glass found in ignition room is in small, thin pieces, indicating explosion. lack of discoloration indicates a long, slow burn. explosion must of come after a slow burn.  you little tease... what were you up to you little bastard, huh? what made you that mad?  or scared.  it started in this room. took its time, hung out... but the air ran out. it could not breathe. so it was snuffed. but it was not dead... still all that trapped heat, lying low, waiting for some sucker to open the door and give it that one gulp of air...
-- another backdraft.
temperature in this room was about 2000 degrees, but copper wire in outlet is melted, which requires 5000 degrees. an accidental short in the plug could of created a spark of 7000 degrees, hot enough to melt the wire and start a fire.
no it couldn't.
so, you surviving without me?
there is no replacement 'cause of your boss' cuts, if that is what you mean. if someone else goes out on an injury we are really screwed.
swayzak's not my boss.
look, you are sorta making yourself fair game.
thanks for the insight.
brian, look --
just leave me alone, okay?
stephen, what are you doing here?
fixing my roof.
it is not your roof anymore.
where is sean?
he is got piano lessons.
oh yeah? how is he doing?
he is going to be a fireman.
give up, babe. you can not fight it. believe me, my mom tried...
stephen, you gotta stop just showing up on the roof like this.
i just wanted to, i do not know, not exactly apologize for the other night -- especially since i do not remember much of it --
-- you remember.
yeah... i just thought i should say, i do not know, something.
the great communicator.
sorry i hit jackson.
he deserved it. he was born deserving it.
he treats you okay?
okay.
i treated you better.
you treated me like shit.
you want some coffee?
coffee? nah, i gotta go.
what is wrong, stephen?  c'mon, you only beat up the roof when something is on your mind.  how is brian doing?
he is out.
i know he is out, but how is he doing?
y'know, i treated him better than any other probie i ever had. he probably hates my guts, but i did the best thing for him. i made him finally look in the mirror.
ah stephen, that is what this is really about, is not it? you always have to be right.
hey, I am the first one to admit when I am wrong.
yeah? when was the last time?
in a fire? never.  look, I am his brother. i care about him, y'know? he was going to get himself killed. maybe not today, maybe not in a year, but it would have happened. and i could not -- i just couldn't...
you can not keep being his father...
they ran the residue you scraped from both crispers' front doors. it is a combination of plumber's putty and rayophene gum. burns almost completely away when you light it.
putty? on both doors?
there is something else kinda interesting...
anyway, down here, take a look...
mccaffrey, hold this for us.
uh, i do not think that is in my contract...
i just re-wrote your contract. c'mere...
see that patch of shirt? we wondered about the discoloration so he ran a spectro. on a lucky shot we picked up some traces of trychticholorate. nobody around here had ever heard of it.
trychticholorate? alright, it is an absorption catalyst in toxic waste accidents. it is pretty rare, they stopped making it a couple'a years ago.
probably got in cosgrove's clothes in a gas state from the fire.
what the hell was it doing in the fire?
that is your job.
read.
"trychtichlorate is a binary structured --"
-- go to the bottom. under heat properties.
"during heat episodes of 2000 kelvin or higher, trych breaks down and dissipates. will consume magnesium".
ever burned magnesium? it is so hot it takes water molecules and bamm!
son of a bitch tears 'em apart just to eat the oxygen. would not take much at all to melt ten gauge wire. problem's burnt magnesium leaves a powder trace -- unless you could find something that would eat its residue.
trychticholorate. then swayzak can announce seagrave was a murder.
look, it is not proof, okay? someone may have put the chemical in the outlet, but we found it as a vapor in cosgrove's clothes.
and the putty around the door?
even if it was used to seal the air off, that does not explain why someone would go to the trouble of a backdraft. a gun's a helluva lot easier
but the right guess on this is arson.
i do not guess.
some people say you do not do much of anything when it comes to this case.
i do not work for them, either.
arson.
straightest answer your department's given me all week.
hey.
how is it going?
boss and i are up to about three words an hour.
green committed to a thousand.  there is another fund-raising party tonight. marty'd really like you to come.
i do not know, I am kinda swamped here.
i could use a date.
yeah? well, maybe i can fit it in...
that is it! oh, that son of a bitch, he is different, goddamn it! you see what this tells us, huh? our killer does not love fire!
what?
i got it after we talked to ronald. torches. want to fry the whole goddamn world. but the fires that killed those guys never really burned up much. -- the burns were all lit in outlets surrounded by double firebreaks in the walls. and he made his burns backdrafts.
but he killed these guys.
but he could have killed everybody there. the firebreaks kept it from spreading in the wall. the backdraft blew out the flame. that is it. that is the reason.
what reason?
why backdrafts. whoever fried seagrave and cosgrove went to a helluva lot of trouble to make sure they died by fire, but also made sure the fire blew itself out.
that is why the sealant on the doors... so what have we got, a torch with a conscience?
no, we have a stone killer trying to make a point.
are you going public with this?
no. do that and i guarantee you will scare him off. i do not want him running away.
hi.
hey...  so are you dating your boss or what?
if you were not at least the 300th person to ask me that, I would probably be pissed.  boy, you sure know it is a man's world sometimes...
sorry.  are you dating anyone?
you think that is really any of your business?
well, you did invite me here.
marty did.  but i wanted you to come to.
mr. mccaffrey...
nice boat.
it is not mine.  let's get a picture.
okay.
boy, rimgale's as slow as a snail, is not he?
no, he is more of a dinosaur. guy's not a dummy, though. he is juggling alot of balls on this one.
yeah, but it does not take albert einstein just to figure out if these guys were killed by accidents or not.
jesus, give him a break. there is not enough proof yet to go public. sure, we found some chemical shit we think somebody dumped in the plugs to torch 'em, and we have maybe figured out why backdrafts, but you can not rush this stuff. not 'till it is locked.
but rimgale's probably going to come around to arson.
in a dinosaur kinda way, yeah.
thanks for the invite.
got anything to drink in there?
oh, there might be something stashed away for emergencies.
this is one of the oldest fire stations in the city. lotta tradition locked up in here. what do you think?
homey.
see that trap door up there? that used to lead to the hay loft when they had horse-drawn engines. it was pretty different then... but kinda the same, y'know?
do you miss it?  you seem like you do.
when i came back, i knew more than anything else that i wanted to be a fireman.
then why did you quit?
i wanted to be a good one.
well, our specimen here is your basic standard issue piece of primary suppression equipment. this area is the pumping panel, which controls the rate of liquid insertion into the hose.
uh huh.
adcox, go with pengelly and check the other side.
it is not safe, man. do not go splittin' us up. not with this one.
-- what the hell's the matter with you? you always check the other side. i have not got time for bullshit right now, okay? we got a job here.
let me take the lead, stephen...
goddamn it adcox! just do your fucking job!
is he...
he is alive.
...not now, brian.
had to take on another fire bare- handed, huh? had to be fucking myth man in there instead of looking out for your probie. is that what happened? is it, stephen?
i had that fire. he did not listen!
he did not listen? he was a fucking candidate! he was your responsibility. he should not have been there in the first place, stephen.  you burned him.
fuck you.
brian. what is wrong?
you told swayzak about our arson lead. it is all over the fucking news.
i did not know it was a secret. there are not supposed to be secrets between the city and its investigators --
-- bullshit! you knew what i told you was not ready for the papers --
will you please keep your voice down, there is people --
-- you could have scared the son of a bitch off. we may never bust him now. all for a couple's political points.
i was doing my job.
yeah? and just how much of all this has been "doing your job"?
let me ask you something, do you really think marty had you assigned to arson because of your firefighting skills? who the hell are you kidding? i was there, remember? i saw you and your brother --
leave stephen out of this --
oh yeah, he is the real fireman.  who are you? just another probie working for swayzak --
-- i work for the city.
you knew what we were asking you to do. do not suddenly pull out a conscience now. the fit is not right.
mr. mccaffrey... keeping busy?
yeah. in fact, i just dropped off a letter to the times explaining how yesterday's arson announcement was a fabrication by your office. they loved it. and you know what? you were right, my family background in firefighting gave it weight.
inspector.
alderman.
when are you going to catch the prick that is doing this, don?
"don?"
do not you have any leads at all?
no marty, i don't.
we still have not found a connection between the victims.
jesus, open your eyes! seagrave, cosgrove, and now holcomb -- fried in a goddamn high-rise!
holcomb? i did not know the name of that victim had even been released yet.
is there a connection between them, alderman?
just catch the son of a bitch.
what the hell are you doing here?
I am finished with swayzak. I will do whatever you want me to do. i just want to help catch the guy that burned tim. you got to give me another shot.
in a word, brian, what is this job all about?
fire.
stevie? rimgale's here to see you.
I am busy.
he just wants to --
-- I am busy goddamn it, okay?
I am working on it.
i deal with this stuff every day. but a fireman... you never get used to it.  what happened up there? he was a candidate. did he pay attention? was he listening?
...he was not listening to the right thing...
what do you listen to, stephen?
you do not know... nobody knows...
i might.
it knows us. this one knows us.
i need that report, lt.
hey boss, dekom trust is owned by pan illinois... which is majority controlled by lakeside dynamics... which is a division of windy city ventures... who is partners are...  alan seagrave, donald cosgrove, and jeffrey holcomb.
son of a bitch. they knew each other.
so seagrave and holcomb were accountants...
and cosgrove. coppers figured he laundered money for the mob before getting into real estate. they were not very high on seagrave, either.
nice bunch of guys.
who all ended up wearing candles for faces...  swayzak's up to his ass in this somehow. guy can barely hold a drink in his hand, he is so scared.
hi.
hi.
we still talking?  look, I am sorry about the other day --
swayzak knows something about the guys that were murdered. i want to know why he keeps that hidden.
i do not know anything about it.
you could check. it would be in his files.
do you know what you are asking me to do?
yes.
y'know, four years ago i was working in a bakery. two years ago i was bringing marty coffee and he did not even know my name. i run that office now. marty believed in me and i believe in him. you want me to just throw that away?
your boss is lying, jennifer.
I am sorry... i... could not sleep...
what is wrong?
i...  it used to be, when i was a kid, what meant most to me about this job was there were no ifs. life and death, right and wrong. when someone called the fire department, we came... those guys do not know how much i love them... you do not leave people hanging... cause that is what it is all about. it is loyalty. it is 'till death do us part. is not that what you heard?... it is you go, we go... cause without that, it is the end of families, it is the end of the fire department... and when the fire department stops coming... that is the end of the fucking world...  I am sorry i came, helen, it is just... it is just there is nobody i can talk to...  i miss you.
cook and i are almost finished here. have a seat.
stephen... i... can i talk to you a second...
look, I am sorry i --
-- no, that is okay. it is just sean...
-- he is gettin' good on those eggs. and y'know, he told me he actually likes the piano.
i do not want to confuse him, stephen.
what is --
just take it.
I am sorry.
that is a dumb thing to say.
you are right.
this is the copy of swayzak's manning report that was released. everybody on this job knows it is bullshit but we could never argue with the numbers. they are all airtight.
yeah? airtight?
I have got three different drafts of the same report -- with different numbers that are all over the place. looks like they were just making it up as they went along.
did a little check on the consulting firm that wrote the report. they did exactly one job -- swayzak's manpower study. it is not even really a company. no employees, no directors, just a po box.
then who wrote the report?
it had to be someone who knows numbers. some kind of fancy accountant. but what is the connection?
well brian, i guess you can say it is arson now...
how ya feeling?
did you pull me out?
yeah.
did i say thanks?
no.
just wondering.
i hate hospitals. you are so... so goddamn useless...
so what do you want me to do?
I have been lying here hours... just thinking... we are close...  we are not looking in the right place, brian. this one knows us and we are not looking in the right place...
I am close... but i can not get who it is...
so you came to me...  well, this is going to be an interesting afternoon after all...
okay, here's the deal. I will tell you a story, you tell me one. fair?
who is doing this?
your first question should be who isn't. it is not a spark, brian. not enough damage. and an insurance pro? where is the profit margin?
then who --
-- no no, your turn. tell me a story.
i do not have a story.
sure you do.
famous story even. straight burn. just an engine and truck first on scene. what did you feel, brian, when you first got there?
what?
you got to tell a story too, brian. it is fair. c'mon, do not think too hard --
i... i thought it was great. i loved it. it was nothing to these guys... medium deal.
right. light smoke, low roll. couple'a civilians hollering -- medium deal. so young fireman adcox and captain mccaffrey, they head up stairs, get out on the fire escape -- mccaffrey does the ballsy jump across... what were you feeling, brian?  c'mon, you promised. be honest.  okay... guard!
-- i wanted to be him. right then i wanted to be him more than anything...
very good, brian. -- about your report here. the way to a torch's heart is through his tools. that is how you know him. it is the way he talks to the fire. and to you if you listen.
the outlets.
that is a probie answer. you are smarter than that, brian.
trychticholorate.
good. -- so our two heroes, adcox and mccaffrey, they go back inside. only there is another fire in there nobody sees. and it took your dad, did not it brian? did you see him burn?
who the fuck is doing this?
after it took your dad... the fire... did it look at you brian? did it talk to you?...
oh jesus christ...
not such a far walk after all, is it, brian?
hey, what are you doing here?
just... just wanted to say hello...
so hello.
well, long as you are here you can help clean up a little. I have got a guy coming to look at this in a few minutes.
you are selling dad's boat?
yeah, it is just another memory in my life right now. and i got way too many of them...
i really should get back. there's... there is something I am supposed to do.
yeah? what have you got to do?  look at you. look at your face. all the things you must be thinking. man, you must really hate my guts. well, you know what? it is okay.
look, stephen, maybe we can talk about this some other --
-- okay, so you do not like me. you do not like everything I have done. what, because i was not such a genius the way i raised you? jesus christ, dad was gone, what was i supposed to do? you tell me, what the fuck was i supposed to do?!
it is okay, stephen, i --
-- i tried, y'know? helen's right. i do not have all the answers, but goddamn it, I have got some.  look, you are going to do what you have to, and maybe i should not have gotten in the way. I am your brother, not your father. go on. you got to go somewhere? go...
i saw it.
saw what?
when dad died, i saw another fire...
everybody did.
i saw it before it got them. i tried to yell, but... he asked me to look out for him. and i did not do it. i let him die.
...jesus, you been carrying that around for twenty years? for christ's sake, you were seven years old! you think he could have heard you in there?
i hate him so much sometimes, stephen. you do not know how hard it was for me to put that uniform on...
maybe i do.  ...what a fuckin' mess, huh?  people can change brian.
sometimes right when you are looking at them.
oh god, stephen, what is going on with you?
i do not know, brian... i do not know...
-- stephen, wait a minute. i got to talk to you. it is adcox, he is --
-- what are you doing here?
i saw adcox's back! i saw the burn! i put it there! jesus christ, stephen, he is been killing people!
i know.
how do you know?
i knew when you came looking for the chemicals. looking for me.
-- what were they doing there?
they were for the fucking boat, brian.
we gotta roll, stevie...
I will be there.
they are waitin' man.
I will be there, goddamn it!
anything else?
what are we going to do about this?
I will handle it.
we gotta go to rimgale, stephen.
I am his lt. he is my responsibility. I will handle it. me.
aw man, stephen, listen to me...
-- what the fuck were you thinking, huh? burning people? you are a fireman.
they were killing firemen, man. when sally showed me what was in swayzak's files... they were my friends, i had to do it. i had to do it for the department.
did you do it for tim?
that was an accident! jesus christ, why did you have to go in there so fucking early? why did not you listen to me!
you gotta let me finish --
just come down, john. just --
-- shut up! your dad would fucking puke if he saw how you have shit on his department!
-- knock it off!
-- you can not let him turn you against your friends, man --
-- he killed people --
-- you know what swayzak would do to the department if this got out? --
-- stephen, this is bullshit --
-- what he would do to your dad's department? you got to let me finish it --
you are his lt., stephen...  are you going to handle it? are you stephen?
shut up!
...what do you want me to do, stephen? talk to me. what am i supposed to do?
there is a fire. we have got a job here. let's get on with it.
you crazy son of a bitch, why could not you stay behind a desk where you belong?
"you never know till the fire stares you down if you are going to be --"
oh shut up, huh?  i think i broke my goddamn arm...
you stupid son of a bitch! what the fuck are you doing!
stevie... i...
do not tell them about adcox... do not let 'em...
I am sorry... I am sorry i thought... i won't.
your brother was a good man.
yeah.
another couple of good men get burned up for their city? is that how it is going to read?  you are the only one that knows.
like it never happened...
mr. swayzak! how ya doin'?
investigator...
I am a little busy right now --
this'll only take a minute. there is two cops outside that want to ask you about this --
i think your boss is going to need some spin control.
i quit two days ago, brian.
what will you do?
i do not have the slightest idea...
I will see ya around, huh?
it is a small town.
