professor brown! it is almost eight thirty -- I am outta here!
shhhhhhhh!
the power of a million hydrogen bombs!  ...and we get twenty four measly volts. it is not fair! I have been working on this power converter since 1949, and you would think in all that time, i could find the right chemicals that would efficiently convert radiation into electric energy! but no! thirty three years of dedication and research, and all I have got to show for it is a bootleg video operation!
that reminds me, if we could scrape up enough for a 35 film chain, I have got a connection with a projectionist in a first run house -- we could be sellin' new movies on the street before they are even in the theater.
a 35mm film chain... I will see what i can do....
did you ever consider that some doors are locked for a reason?
nope. the way i figure it, doors are made to be opened. see you after school.
oh -- marty -- what time did you say it was?
eight thirty.
am or pm?
pro, the sun's out!
oh, right, right...
jeez, for a guy with a ton of clocks, you sure do not pay much attention to time.
catch you later!
...to be traveled through
morning dick.
marty. what is for breakfast?
gimme some chili, fries, and a tab.
hot tip,  rubber biscuit in the third race at arlington.
dick, what is with those guys out there in the gutter?
third time they have been out there this week.
what is n.r.c.?
i do not know. national cash register?
you would like to see a nuclear holocaust?
not a holocaust --
mr. mcfly here wants to nuke it all, just so he can see it!
you know damn well that is not what i meant.
all i can say is, that is one helluva attitude, mr. mcfly. 'let's explode a hundred megaton geothermal nuclear device, just to see it.'
yeah, explode it up your ass!
unfortunately, the way things are going, you may get your wish. you may see the entire annhiliation of the world. if not, you will certainly see the destruction of all out natural resources. we can already see the air we breathe, not to mention the pollution in our rivers and lakes. we will  see all of our oil reserves depleted, in fact, all of our energy sources. yes, you people have a lot to look forward to -- a lot to see.
hey, mr. arky, gimme a break!  I am seventeen years old! I am not responsible for all these problems!
I have been calling you for five minutes! did not you hear me?
i was practicing. I have got an audition next week -- i got to practice. how am i going to get famous if i do not practice?
dad, you seen the drill?
what drill?
the drill!  the power drill i bought you for christmas. i was using it last night.
now, george! dinner's ready now!
coming, eileen...
how was school today?
fine.
learn anything?
oh yeah.
that is good.
fine..
learn anything?
oh yeah.
good.
by the way, that reminds me...  saturday night we are taking grandma stella out for chinese food.
eileen, chinese food again?
george, if you do not want chinese food, pick a place you want to go and make a reservation.
no, chinese food is fine.
saturday night's the 'springtime in paris' dance. I am taking suzy parker.
the sunrise? what for?
jeez, what do you think? to see it!
you mean you are going to stay up all night?
mom, how else are we gonna see the sunrise?
i do not think i like the idea of you staying out all night with a girl!
well, well, he smirked when marty opened the door. if it is not the neighborhood bootlegger, al capone mcfly?
what do you want, biff?
show me some respect, you little asshole. it is special officer tannen to you.
the day i show respect to biff tannen will be the day i win a million dollars... what is the matter, biff, they are not showing you any respect down at the golf course? do not they realize what a tough job it is keeping the criminal element away from the country club?
listen you little asshole, i oughta --
what do you want, biff?
where is your old man?
...he just lets himself get pushed around all the time! people walk all over him and he never fights back, never stands up for himself.
no self confidence, i guess... at least you do not take after him.
yeah... jesus! i wonder how he ever got up enough nerve to marry my mom.
can you imagine your parents in bed together?
no way!
me neither. I have always wondered whether they slept together before they got married. you think yours did?
hell no! the way my mom carries on about sex -- you even mention the word and she goes into cardiac arrest. you shoulda seen her face when i told her we were gonna stay up all night saturday, he added. always afraid something is going to happen.
is  something going to happen saturday night?
good evening, one said. agents reese   and foley, from the nuclear regulatory commition.  mind stepping over here?
what is this all about?
what, am i radioactive or something?
no, no, not beyond an acceptable level. have you been x-rayed recently, martin?
been any place unusual in the past twelve hours?
home, school, here...
okay, martin. you have a good evening now.
yeah,  right.
but professor --
get behind the shield! I am about to release radiation!
no, marty. shemp's molecular structure is completely intact!
then where the hell is he?
the appropriate question to ask is when the hell is he! you see, shemp has just become the world's first time traveller. I have sent shemp into the future -- two minutes into the future to be exact.
the future? what are you talking about? where is shemp?!
shemp is right here in this room...two minutes from now, and at exactly 9:02pm, we will catch up to him.
now hold on a minute, professor! hold the phone. are you trying to tell me that this -- all of this here -- that this is -- it is a -- a --
a time machine! because of that coke?!
precisely!
the plutonium! that is what i came over here for! professor, where did you get that stuff?
why?
exactly two minutes difference...  and it is still ticking!
is shemp all right?
of course. shemp is unaware that anything even happened, other than his stool suddenly falling over. we had to wait two minutes to catch up to him, but for shemp the trip was instantaneous.
professor, can this thing send shemp back in time?
a gold mine?
sure! listen -- we take the racing results from today's paper...
marty, that would alter history.
so what? we would be rich!
do not you understand? the mere act of sending matter back in time would change the course of events, and changing history is a responsibility that i do not wish to bear.
all i know is you are throwing away an awful lot of money.
the future, marty, the future is everything! i built this machine to see the future. so i am going to send shemp twenty-four hours into the future. you can assist me, if you like.
sure, he agreed quickly.
what?!
pro! release the rope!
uh, yeah... gimme a tab.
what?
a tab.
sweet and what?  maybe you would better pay for this first.
sure,.
look, maybe I would better talk to dick. is he around?
dick? dick who?
now who is being stupid? the guy who runs this place.
i run this place!
what happened to dick wilson?
dick wilson? dickie wilson? dickie wilson runs this place? that is a laugh!
operator...
operator! listen, this is an emergency! i have to make this call, but i do not have a dime -- all i got is a nickel -- but you got to connect me --
sir, it only costs a nickel.
what?
local calls cost five cents. what number do you want?
oh -- right! uh, madison 3489.
five cents, please.
I am sorry, there is no answer.
operator, what is today's date?
march 11th.
what year?
nineteen fifty --
how old are you?
seventeen.
professor? professor brown?
you know me?
professor, you time machine works! it works! it sent me back in time! I am from 1982!
ssshhhhh!
he will be. simple inebriation, is all. the young man must have a rather low tolerance for alcohol... something that runs in the family. you see, he is a second cousin of mine on my mother's side. came quite a distance to visit me, he added. his name's lewis.
marty.
uh, marty lewis! i almost did not recognize him -- have not seen him in years.
here's your jacket!
uh, thanks...
it is polyester.
poly-what?
huh?
have we ever met before?
jeez -- this is where you used to live, huh? you must have been rich!
must have been? used to live? i do live here.
oh, yeah.
well, there is a mall here now -- i mean, there will be.
a mall?
yeah, a shopping mall. you know, a shopping mall?
you have convinced me that you must be who you say you are. no living human has ever seen this machine.  but why? why even in my twilight years would i remotely consider sending someone back in time?
you didn't, professor. it was an accident! you see, what happened --
no! do not tell me!  i do not want to know the future! my knowledge of future events... your mere presence here... could have devastating effects on the course of history. and altering history is a responsibility that i do not wish to bear. my immediate response is to send you back to your own time.
pardon me?
oh. that expression probably has not been invented yet... i can get behind -- i agree with you.
on second thought, there may be some things you will have to tell me.
the power converter...
of course! the power converter! it works! of course, it works...  what chemicals do we use?
well, professor, are you sure you want me to tell you? you know, changing the course of history and all....
blast it -- no, i suppose you are right.... you do know the proper chemical formula?
how did you know?
just a guess. i figured kids would still be drinking coke in 1982.
professor. well, not exactly, professor. you see, we do not point it at the sun.
we don't....
4200 rads...  that certainly can not be generated under controlled conditions in this day and age.
that is just great!
you answered the door!
you were ringing the doorbell!
i told you not to interfere with any of the events of this time! nobody's supposed to see you here! what if i was a mailman? or a salesman?
what if you lost your keys?
then i would have figured out to get back in through the events in the natural course of history! do not you understand? the fabric of history is very delicate. anything you do could have serious consequences!
hey, look, gimme a break! all i did was answer the door! how is that going to change history?
i do not know, but i do not want to take any chances! now you stay here and do not do anything. do not answer the door, do not answer the phone, do not go outside. understand?
let me put it on a level you can understand. you do not belong here. you do not know anything about this world. you do not know the customs, you do not know how to talk, how to act -- you do not even look like you belong here. and if you walked out on the street, you would not get 100 yards without being arrested. then there would be questions, and where would we come up with the answers?
okay, professor, i get where you are coming from. the way i look, the way I am dressed...  I would stick out like a sore thumb.
this... is the number one single?
yes, sir!
i do not get it. how come there is no rock 'n roll?
i beg your pardon?
this is 1952....?
uh, yes, sir...
and you never heard of rock 'n roll?
no....
an atomic bomb.
professor, be serious, would you?
i am serious. if we could get you, the time machine, and the power converter in the vicinity of an atomic blast, we could send you back to the future.
you are talking crazy! an atomic blast would melt me and the time machine in a matter of seconds!
you forget -- time travel is instantaneous. the time machine would melt, but you would have already travelled through time. of course, it is a moot point regardless. the only place atomic bombs are detonated is at the army's nevada test site, and those tests are kept absolutely top secret.
say, where did this guitar come from?
oh -- that -- i found it in the closet.
i do not recall ever seeing it before.
well, it was there.
curious... very curious....
hi, marty.
uh, hi....
you remember me...?
how could i forget?  oh, sure, i remember you.
well, i was on my way to school, and i just wanted to stop by and see if you were feeling okay.  you seemed like you were in pretty bad shape the other night.
oh, I am feeling much better now.
then you will be going to school here....?
school? i never thought of school! if i went to school i could blend in with everybody else, could not i?
what time does school start around here?
nine o' clock.  oh, I am late! maybe I will see you later.
yeah. maybe so.
yes, that is my name. who are you, young man? are you supposed to be here?
uh -- yeah. I am new here, and I am supposed to be in this class.
you have a name?
marty. marty lewis.
who, me?
you are the only mr. lewis in this class.  if you have something to say, say it so the whole class can hear.
well, yeah, i was thinking, if cars are going to be going two or three hundred miles an hour, they are going to be using an awful lot of gas. like, what if we run out?
run out of gas?
you have got to ask her to the dance!
not now....
is that what you were going to ask me, george? to go to the dance?
no!
george! he is supposed to ask you to the dance!
but he did not ask me.
but he does! do not you see?
he comes out of the cafeteria line, he is nervous, he spills his corn, and he asks you to the dance!
marty, you have not been listening. nobody's asked me to the dance...yet.
i know.
you did what?!?
look, it is not a big deal! i can fix it! all i got to do is get 'em together and make sure my old man asks her out!
you better make sure your old man asks her out, because if he doesn't, they may never have a first date. and if they do not have a first date, they will not have a second date. if they do not have a second date, they will not fall in love. if they do not fall in love, they will not get married, and if they do not get married, you will never be born!
george, she is beautiful, right? she is nice, she is decent, she is the kind of girl you would like to marry, right? and there is nothing in the world you would like more than to take her to that dance, right?
well... yeah...
okay, then!
what do i say?
say what you were supposed to say in the cafeteria.
oh, no! that was for the cafeteria! this is different!
christ, it is a miracle i was even born!
huh?
nothing. look, I will write it down for you, okay?
what is that? a pencil that writes in ink?
it was marty's turn to be confused. huh?
lemme see that.
'bike fine point?'
bic... it is a bic pen.
uh, hi, eileen.
how are you?
oh -- I am all right. say, listen, about this dance saturday night --
where did you get this?
i brought it with me from 1982. it is from my science book.
the test is this monday! 15 megatons... let's see, we need 4200 rads...  you would have to be...exactly 800 yards from ground zero... you realize that what we are going to do could be extremely dangerous.
believe me, professor, running around on a nuclear test site can not be any more dangerous than what I have been doing.
your 'mother' wanted me to tell you that she was very impressed by what you did this afternoon, and that if you were interested in going to the dance saturday, she is available.
but that is impossible!! george asked her out! he had to! i saw him walk her home! oh, god!
my guess is that she turned him down.
but why? why would she do that? she is supposed to marry the guy!
apparently, what has happened is that the maternal instinct has transcended the gap of time and this has caused an alteration in your mother's emotional behavior.
are you trying to tell me that my mother's got the hots for me?
in a manner of speaking, yes. and because of that, she is no longer interested in your father.
jesus!
hi, marty!
listen,  professor brown told me you called last night and gave me your message...
i do not want to hit you in the stomach!
you are not going to hurt me. just hit me in the stomach.
look, marty, I am just not a fighter...
how many times do i have to explain it to you?... we know you are not a fighter. you know it, i know it... but she does not know it. that is why we got to make you look like a fighter, somebody who will stand up for her, somebody who is not chicken. and you are not going to look like a fighter if you can not hit me in the stomach.
but I have never picked a fight in my entire life!
you are not picking a fight, you are coming to her rescue. maybe we would better go over the plan again. where are you going to be at 8:55?
I am going to be at the dance.
and where am i gonna be?
in the parking lot, with her.
okay. so right around 9:00 she is going to get very angry with me -
why?
why what?
why is she gonna get angry with you?
you mean, you are going to --
george it is not your concern. do not worry about it. just remember that at 9:00, you will be strolling through the parking lot and you will see us -- struggling in the car, you will run over, open the door and say....?
your line, george!
oh. uh... 'hey, you! get your damn hands off her!'  george paused. you really think i should swear?
yes, definitely, god dammit george, swear. then you hit me in the stomach, i go down for the count, and you and eileen life happily ever after. now, hit me in the stomach.
maybe if i used my left....
no, george, just concentrate on the anger. anger.
that is all taken care of.
good. professor brown tested the tarp, noting in satisfaction that it was secure. I will pick you up in front of the school at midnight. do not be late -- we are cutting it close as it is. we have got a long drive ahead of us.
look. I am a little worried about this -- this whole thing with my mother, he admitted to the professor. i mean, i do not know if i can do it -- i mean, hitting on my own mother, that is pretty heavy.
nobody said anything about hitting her! you are just going to take a few liberties with her.
that is exactly what i said! i mean, a guy and his mother -- that is illegal, is not it?
look, marty, she is not your mother yet. and if you do not go through with this, she may never be. i know it is hard, but there are some things we must do in life that are unpleasant. some choices must be made that are difficult. nonetheless, we must make them. besides, this may be more than a simple question of your own existence, he added. the fate of the entire space-time continuum may rest on your shoulders . marty tried to smile at him.
that is just what i needed to hear.
it will be fine, marty.  you will be fine. good luck. he stuck his hand out and marty shook it. but there was still a question that was nagging at him...
professor, if something does go wrong tonight... if i do not get my parents back together... when do you think I would cease to exist?
there is no way of knowing.
perfect...
it could happen at the moment you arrive back in the future, theoretically, it could happen at the moment of your birth...or conception. actually, it could happen at any time. it is a question to which i hope we will never learn the answer.
are you all right, marty? you seem a little...nervous.
oh, no, I am fine...fine.
I am usually nervous myself on first dates...but not tonight. it is funny, but somehow, i feel like....like i know you.
uh, yeah, well, believe me, i sure feel like i know you!
well, eileen...jeez, that is hard for me to say. have you ever been in a situation where -- well -- you know you have to act a certain way, but when you get there, you do not know if you can go through with it?
you mean like how you are supposed to act with someone on a first date?
i think i know exactly what you mean.
you do?
you didn't?
nope. my father's never clenched a fist in his entire life!
curious...  very curious.
it was sure nice of uncle sam to put those yardage markers up for us.
we are at one and a half miles, so you are just a little over a mile from where you want to be,  wait until minus 3 minutes before you go -- that should give you plenty of time, and it should be close enough to zero hour that they can not do anything to stop you. park the truck at 800 and get in the refri-- the time chamber. just be sure the nose of the truck is pointed at the bomb....the power converter will do the rest.
thanks for everything, pro.
professor brown grinned. i guess I will see you in... about 30 years.
marty,  i know I have repeatedly asked you not to tell me anything about the future, but....well, those loud bangs on the tape recorder....are they....
professor -- there are some doors that should not be opened, marty said softly, without turning around.
what year is this?
1982! march 18, just like we planned! my calculations were absolutely correct! thirty years! god, i cannot believe it is been thirty years! sure, it was a long time ago -- longest I have ever had to wait for the results of an experiment!
hop in, marty, . we have got a long drive ahead of us.
what do you call this?
a car.
you see, i never rebuilt the time machine after it was destroyed in 1952. i decided that experimenting with time and possibly changing history was too risky. anyway, experiments in time travel were banned in all 87 states after the governor of cuba caught dr. felstien fooling around in the bermuda triangle -- that was back in '64.
87 states? time travel bans? what the hell?
but if you did not rebuild the time machine, how did i go back in time in the first place?
according to your girlfriend, suzy parker, you and she were at the movies. you went to the restroom and you never came out. obviously, you stepped through an inter-dimensional time warp, created by the original operation of the time machine.
obviously!
but i told everyone your disappearance was due to a teleportation experiment you were helping me with. so do not mention anything about time travel to anyone.
what theater was i at?
the orpheum.
pretty, is not it?
it is the most beautiful city I have ever seen! what is it?
suzy!
hi, marty!
what did you do to your hair?
what did you do to yours?
