good morning, cheeba.
good morning to you, mr. delapot.
de-la-croix.
y'know what i mean.  got a gig yet for manray and i yet?
manray, sloan says you are too talented to be dancing on the street.
well do something about it.
...exactly thirty-two minutes ago.
I am sorry I am late.
do you know how much information can be dispensed in one minute alone?
i did not find out about this very important staff meeting until...
four minutes ago.
so are you telling me everyone knew about this get-together except you?
i was not told about this until marie informed me as soon as i got off the elevator.
how was it?
why did not you tell me about this staff meeting?
nobody told me anything.
what good are you if you do not tell me stuff like this?
it was not my fault.  if i would have known, i would have known.
do you know what c.p. time is?
c.p. time is colored people's time. the stereotypical belief that negroes are always late.  that negroes have no sense of time - time except when it comes to music or dance.
I am sorry about my blowup but i have to have a whipping boy every meeting.
i understand.  but again, in all honesty i was not informed.
forget it.  i believe you are my most creative person I have got on staff.  you are hip.  you know what is happening.  i got some corny white boys and girls writing for me.
i understand black culture.  i grew up around black people all my life. if the truth be told i probably know "niggers" better than you, monsieur delacroix.  please do not get offended by my use of the quote-unquote n word.  i got a black wife and three bi-racial children, so i feel i have a right to use that word.  i do not give a damn what spike says, tarantino is right.  nigger is just a word.  if dirty ole bastard can use it every other word so can i.
i would prefer you not use that word in my presence.
nigger.  nigger.  nigger.  nigger.
the material you have been creating is too white bread.  white people with black faces.  the huxtable's, cosby, revolutionary.  but that is dead.  we can not go down that road again.
i do not agree.  the negro middle class does exist, and it is rich material for a dramatic series or sitcom.
I am telling you it is not.
the middle class black family moves into a white suburban enclave.  the middle class black family moves into a small southern town that is run by the kkk.  the middle class single black father raises his teenage daughter.  the middle class single black father raises his teenage daughter.  the middle class single black mother raises her teenage son.  and so on and so forth.  it is too clean, too antiseptic...
...to white?  i still feel all of my scripts would make good shows.
delacroix, wake up, brother man. the reason why they did not get picked up was because nobody - and i mean nobody - niggers and crackers alike wants to see that junk.
I have never been given a fair shot.
you got your head stuck up your ass with your harvard education and your pretentious ways.  brother man, I am blacker than you.  I am keepin' it real and you are frontin', trying to be white.
I am an oreo, a sell out?  because i do not aspire to do homeboys from out of space, secret diary of desmond pfeiffer, a pj's or some as you might put it, some "nigger" show?  I am a tom?  I am whiter than white and you are blacker than black? is that what you think?
that is exactly what i think.  i want you to create something that people want to see.  let's be honest, the majority of the people in the country are deaf, dumb and blind and I am including 35 million african-americans.  you know and i know "niggers" set the trend, set the styles.  this is a golden opportunity now.  these idiots have to be led to the water.
I am not sure if i can deliver what you want.
you will or you will be back at bet so quick you will never know what hit you.  i need a mid-season replacement and pronto.  it will be on the fast track.
what is it you want from me?  some plantation follies?  some sitcom that takes place on a watermelon patch?  some show that follows four nigger generations of junkies and crackheads?  you want me to go back to the ante bellum days?
yes!  yes!  yes!  i want a show that will make headlines, that will have millions and millions of households tuned in, glued to their televisions every week.  i want advertisers dying to buy on this show.  I am going to squeeze this show out of you if it kills you.
I am starvin' like marvin.
my world famous, famous world arroz con pollo will be ready very soon.
hurry up, i wanna watch hbo.
did we get our bill yet?
ahh, the luxuries of life.
yo, check it.  this is good and all that but one day soon i want to have much benjamins so i can have a nice crib and pay all my bills. you hear me.
chill, I am the brains behind this outfit.
and I am the feet.
yo, you got to show some patience. you want me to snap my fingers and presto chango - you are an overnight sensation.  son, there is no such thing.
I am tired of waiting.
my tap shoes.
eureka!!
manray!
manray!
how did you know?
it hit me like a ton of bricks.
how can this be?  you and me at the same time, the exact same thought. it is scary.
the idea was out there in the universe.  now what?
we ran out without my shoes and the floor.  i gotta get my stuff.  what about our savings?
are you crazy?  the joint is crawling with cops now.  you wanna go to rikers?  go to the hoosegow?
manray was under our nose the whole time.
do you know how you will use him?
not yet, but this thing will never get made.
you lost me.
dunwitty wants a coon show.  and that is what I am going to give him, it is going to be so racist, so negative, he will not have the balls to put it on the air.  hence I will prove my point.
what point is that?
the point being that him, the networks do not want black people on television unless they are buffoons.
sounds risky to me.
you getting cold feet?
I am in till the end.
good.  I am going to need your support.
can not you just quit?  walk away?
and lose out on my money?  the only way i get paid is if i get fired. and that is what i intend to do.
maybe something happened to them. maybe they are lying in an alley bleed to death.
manray better not be bleeding to death.  i need him.  after we are done he can do whatever he wants to do, until then, he is ours.
sloan and i have been looking all over for you.
you would take no offense if we called you dela for short?
no offense.
manray needs a job.
we got evicted from our home. we have both been on the streets for the last week.
we was coming to see you.
if it is not too much trouble could you order us some food?
we are starving.
i have this concept for a tv pilot. there is no guarantee it will get made but regardless, you will still make some money.
how much?
first things first.  i have to know if manray is up for this.
what do i have to do?
some tap dancing, some singing.
where do i sign?
what kind of show is this gonna be?
different.
how different?
trust me.  of course i still have to pitch it to my boss, but we will have an answer one way or the other.
dela, I am aboard.  as long as i get to hoof and get paid too!!!
that is right.  money turns the wheel.
what about in the mean time?  not the in between time?
you will both get an advance and you can stay with me.
i would like to change your name.
to what?
you are now mantan.
mantan?  i do not even care as long as I am dancing.  which reminds me, i need some new kicks.
i never had a really real pair before.
you have never had any formal training, either?
not a class, not a thing, just picked stuff up by myself.
i wish i had your natural talent. god only makes that visit once in a while.
you sing and dance?
a little.  i just graduated from nyu film school.  cinema studies.
so what is up with you and dela?
what do you mean?
are you and him kicking it? knocking boots. y'knowwhati'mtalkin'bout.
no, we are not knocking boots.  i got this internship while i still was at nyu, dela was impressed with my get up and go and hired me to be his assistant.
I am sure that was the only thing he was impressed with.  you look beautiful like that.
if that was suppose to be a compliment, i thank you.
you are welcome.  you should not give up on performing.
why do you say that?  you have never seen me.
i think that would probably make you the happiest.  when I am hoofing, i mean really doing my thing, hitting it, nothing compares to that feeling in the world.
i envy you.  that is the way i want to feel about my work.
you idiot.  you almost gave me a massive coronary.
i did not mean to scare you like that.
well you did.
give me some?
I am not huggin' you in the middle of the street.  you must be crazy, julius.
whoa, hold up li'l sis'.  i done told you 'bout that.  julius am not my name, you better recognize hopkins was our slave name.  my true name is...
I am not callin you big black africa. mommy and daddy named you julius.
big black is the first name and africa is the last.
damn, sis, you do not keep no food up in here in dis' piece.
i order out mostly.  so what do i owe this visit to?
my group we need some exposure. was wondering if you could hook a brother up?
hook you up?  the mau-mau's?  you must be smoking.  why in the world would i want to hook up a bunch of red, black and green flag-waving pseudo revolutionairies?
so now i see where you are coming from.  just because we am not rapping about gucci, timberland, rolex, benz, cristal, ho's and bitches, we are pseudo.
who are you revolting against?
we are revolting against the powers that be, that been enslaving the minds and hearts of all people of color.  and we will not stop rapping till we bring about the overthrow of the government of the u.s. of a.
please.
if you were really down you would get us together with that boss of yours.  what is his name again?
delacroix.
yeah, him.
what makes you think he would write a show about the mau-mau's.
c'mon, why not?  the monkees had a show.  look at all that other junk that is on tv.  we got underground cult following.
you do not have the demographics.
so are you telling me that you would not even introduce me to delacroix or set up a meeting?  I am talking 'bout me, your only brother, ya own flesh and blood, hook a brother up, youknowwhati'msayin'.
that'swhati'msayin'.  I am not blowin' my young career, brother or no brother, for you or anybody else.
there is a name, a term for your kind, the likes of you.  back in slavery days, you would be classified as a house nigga.
if you think I am a house nigga then that is your prerogative.  you got your ways to affect change, i have mine.  and i would appreciate it very much if you took ya field nigga ass out of my house.
my own sister throwin' me out.  i hope to seeya later when you get ya mind right.  do not bother letting me out.
that is mighty black of you.
delacroix, I am glad you got your mind right.
it is right and tight.  good morning, let me introduce you to everybody. you know my assistant, sloan.
hello.
this is cheeba.
nice to meet you.
and this is manray.
we are all happy to be here and I am going to paint a picture for you.
I am wid it.
I have done a lot of soul searching and once again you are right.  in my previous work it is been all surface, superficial.  i have never really dug deep.  not anymore.  as mark twain fully understood satire is the way.  race has always been a hot button in this country's history and it needs to be pushed harder.  if we are ever to live side by side in peace and harmony. it is about promoting racial healing.
go on.  good so far.
i know you are familiar with minstrel shows.  they came about at the turn of the 19th century.  it was a variety show in which the talent was in blackface - singing, dancing, telling jokes, doing skits. dunwitty, i ask you when was the last time there was a good variety show on the air.  carol burnett? heehaw?
word!!!
so let's take this great form, this very american tradition of entertainment into the 21st century, into the new millennium.
the name of the show?
it is called: mantan - the new millennium minstrel show.
I am lovin' it.  you know how i know? because I am getting a boner, my johnson is hard, no disrespect my sister.
I am feelin' dis'!
it will take a lot of courage and backbone on the part of the cns to get this on the air.  in fact, i would understand fully if the subject matter is deemed too risque, too controversial.
do not worry about that, that is my department.  now who do we cast? we need a star.  can whoopi sing or dance?
i do not know if whoopi is the way to go.
are these our two stars, sitting here in front of my nose?  which one is mantan again?
that is a great handle.
mantan and sleep 'n eat.  two real coons.  i know we are way out there but it is satire.
i want you take it there.  all the way to the edge and back.
every week we follow the trials and tribulations of two real coons - mantan and sleep 'n eat.  the dusky duo.
what are there character traits?
ignorant, dullwitted, lazy, and unlucky.
exactly!
mantan is an uneducated negro who always by some stroke of unbelievable stupidity makes his best laid plans go haywire.
and sleep 'n eat is his comical sidekick?
yep, you guessed it.
this could be bigger than "amos and andy."
protest finally forced "amos and andy" off the air.  could stop us from ever getting on.
let'em try.  i will kill to make this happen.
negroes would be in an uproar.
so what.  we would just give the naacp a donation that would be the end of that.  no such thing as bad publicity.  so what.  earlier you said singing and dancing.
mantan right here is a gifted hoofer.  he has educated feet.
who are the other characters?
do we have characters?  how about honeycutt, snowflake, rastus, nigger, jim, sambo, jungle bunny, and how could we forget aunt jemima.
we going to hit 'em wid da bomb dickey on dis' one.  what is the setting?
in the projects.  like eddie murphy's "the pj's."
ya first bad move.  projects been done.  that is one of the problems now, everything, movies, tv, are set in the urban jungle, da hood. that is so tired.  mantan's millennium minstrel show should be set on a plantation.  in alabama.
and every week these alabama porch monkeys will make us cry, make us laugh, make us look at our own humanity.  make us feel good to be alive.
i do not know about that plantation angle.
what are you talkin' 'bout?  it is the move.  stay wid me now.  we are movin' fast.  what does everybody else think about this?
that'swhati'mtalkin''bout. that'swhati'mtalkin''bout!  he is off the hiz-hook!
we think so.
sleep 'n eat, what do you do?
life is beginning to look up.  it is all good in da neighborhood.
you might be right.
why are you smiling so?
I am not smiling.
naw, not you.  it can not be.  that hottie sloan hopkins.
it is that bad, huh?  it is all over my face.
no shame in ya game.  she got ya nostrils, ya chnoz is wide open. sloan's what we certified ladies' men call low hanging fruit.
certified ladies' man, huh?
she is also moorish.
what is that?
moorish.  ya get a little taste of dat booty, ya wanna get some more.
seconds and thirds, too.
sloan is all 'dat.  i try her.  I am a tri-sexual.
you would try anything.  i got first dibs.  you get ya own stuff.
naw, just jokin'.  that is you. that is you.
i want you to start using the name mantan and not manray if you do not mind.
why?
you have to start getting into your character.
that am not funny.
dela, i do not know 'bout this.
gentlemen, the show, our show will be satirical.  you know what that is, do not you?  trust me on this one.
we might need some mo' money behind this.
that can be done.
mantan?
mantan!!
yo, big black, we needs a name for this joint.
how 'bout...
blak out.  blak listed.  blak ball. need i say more.
b-l-a-k it is.
you must think I am some kind of fool.
it looks delicious.
you hear me talkin' to you.  the only time you come up here when something is wrong.
c'mon, mommy, do not start with that I am an ungrateful son stuff.
i said no such thing.  all i said is that something must be wrong.
how is the food?
can not beat it with a hammer.  well, since you asked, it looks like i may have a new show, a pilot being shot.
that is wonderful.  is not that what you always wanted, a show of your own?
it was.  it is.  but this is a different kind of show.
if at first it is not what you want, just work that much harder, peerless.
mommy, please do not call me that.
son, peerless is your name.  now you might be one of these hollywood types, change your name and all that but peerless dothan is on your birth certificate.
i know what is on my birth certificate.  you heard from daddy?
i guess he is still on the road. what kind of show is this?  are they some negroes in it without being buffoons?
to answer your question, there are a lot of negroes in it and what is your definition of buffoons?
peerless, i did not raise a buffoon. we have enough of those on television already.
please let me know when you hear from daddy, get a number or something.
i will.  and good luck with your show.  i hope it is a huge success. you have worked very hard.  you deserve it.
you okay?
i feel like somebody hit me upside da head with a sledgehammer.
dela - what is the matter with you.
you am not happy about the green light?
people show their happiness in a lot of different ways.
well, homeboy, looks like he is at a funeral.
I am happy for all of us.  it is just we have a great responsibility now. the pressure is on.
pressure?  dela, you do not know what the hell real pressure is. sheeett!!!  this is lightstuff. now when you scramblin' out on the street in da january winter and the hawk is talkin' to you with no money and no prospects of money anytime soon, now that there is some pressure.
i did not mean it to sound like that.
that is the way it came out.  let me ask you one question.  have you ever been in want, in need your entire privileged life?
now I am privileged?!  why?  because i did not grow up on food stamps and welfare?  because i did not call home a cardboard box?  no, i never ever went to bed hungry and I am proud of it, too.  whoever told you that living in poverty earns you somekind of badge of honor flat out lied to you.
the point I am trying to make is that this is a blessing.  it is going to be fun doing this show and we should all look at it that way.
what is wrong with him?
must be the pressure.
please, have a seat.
sloan never told us she had friends like you.
in fact, we never knew she had any friends period.
a lot?
enough.
what is your problem?
my problem is mantan the new millenium minstrel show.
why did you even come up with that shit if you did not want it made?
it was the principle.  dunwitty had to be enlightened.  i was making a point.  i take pride in my work. plus, i already told you i was not going to walk away from my money.
fuck da money.  why do through all this effort?  why?  are you looking for love from dunwitty?  for respect?  dunwitty and his likes do not give a goddamn about you.  so now what are you going to do?
even if money was not an issue, dunwitty will still go ahead without me and that could be more dangerous.
what is the chances of mantan being picked up?
i would not bet against it.  my negroidal ass is stuck between the proverbial rock and a hard place.
like i said, all this for some twisted, distorted sense of principal.  dunwitty, he just tolerates your negroidal ass, he does not respect it.
i strongly feel that a negro should direct this.  this kind of satire is a high wire act in a gale storm. one misstep and we are doing "amos and andy."  only a negro will have the sensitivity and cultural awareness to navigate this dangerous terrain.
to hire someone solely on their ethnicity, gender or religion is not right.  it is un-american.  i will hire someone who is most qualified for this particular job.
i was hoping to perhaps direct some episodes myself, if not the pilot soon after.
i want a hot, young white director. maybe the kid, that pheenom who just did that hot new sexy madonna video.
you are telling me some white boy is going to direct this pilot?
i just want you to meet him.  keep an open mind.
besides, what does he know about negroes?
probably nuthin', but that is why it is such a sexy way to go. sometimes an outsider has a fresh new outlook, a different unique perspective.  a black director, y'know what he is going to do given the subject matter?  with this kid, the possibilities are endless.
what are his qualifications besides being a white male and directing a hot new sexy freaky madonna video?
if spielburg can direct "the color purple" and "amistad", our whiz kid can direct the mantan pilot.
that is exactly my point.  has he even directed actors before in anything?
no!!!  just meet the guy.  that is all I am asking.  look, I will even let you choose your own musical director.  you can have that.
in the immortal words of derrick coleman, whooopdeedamndoo!!!
derrick coleman, he possessed all the talent in the world, coulda, shoulda, been a great ballplayer but alas d.c. did not want it bad enough.  delacroix, do you want it? bad enough to kill for it?  do you want it that much.
good morning, for those of you who do not know me, I am pierre delacroix. I am running things and this here is my assistant sloan hopkins.
hello.
I have never worked with any of you and you have never worked with me so we will be starting from scratch. I am a fair person, a straight shooter and i do not hold my tongue. everybody up in here should know i had nothing to do with you being hired.
yes, your name?
he, I am mona.
hi, mona.
i perfectly understand where you are coming from.  as a minority i can relate to your struggle also.  but i think you should give us all a chance.  we want this pilot to be successful just as much as you. please do not be so quick to judge us based only on our whiteness.
oh, is that what I am doing?
this thing was rigged, the deck was stacked, the fix was in.  could don king be near?  good thing sloan had my back.  she is my rock.  this was going to be a whole lot of work.
david, i appreciate your comments. anybody got an ideas?  everybody just talk out loud.
I have always liked the format of rowan and martin's "laugh-in."
this is the group i was telling you about.
which one is your brother?
the big one.
the mau-mau's are up in dis place. that is right, the mau-mau's.
what is your name?
my righteous name is big black.
and what are the mau-mau's going to do for us today?
we going to drop some knowledge, wisdom and understanding.  the mau- mau's, we be scientists.  we drop science.
we are ready when you are.
microphone check.  one.  two.  one. two.  one.  two.  hold up.  i gots to give my peeps some props. brothers introduce yourself.
nice to meet you.  if you do not mind me asking you - how old are you?
i just turned twenty.
I am going to leave you two creative geniuses alone.
dunwitty, do not leave.
where are you from?
helsinki, which is the capital of finland.
finland.
you know, finlandia vodka?  yes?
yes, i know.  jukka, have you ever seen a negro person before?  even had a real conversation with a real negro before?
what is a negro.
a fiasco.  a disaster.  a boondoggle. an abomination.
did you just ask me what is a negro? I am a negro!!!
ahhh!!!  i never heard of that term before.  i thought you were black of african-american.  no?
well before there was black or african american, there were negroes.  I am a negro.
thank you for correcting my ignorance.  I am looking forward to working side by side with you.  i feel we make a good team.
how did you get this gig?
my visual style is very erotic, sexy, how do you say - hot?
this is a tv show, not a music video.
then will you teach me what i need to know.  maybe we learn from each other, if that is possible, no?
this is a travesty.  a debacle.
you have said that already.
I am going to slit my wrists.  cut my throat.  for the love of joseph.
i will not be held responsible for these revisions.  these changes are not the way i want to go.  this is an outrage.  this is a sham.  a violation!
calm down, please.
i do not give a good goddamn about finland, norway, sweden or wherever ya blond ass came from.
we just punched it up a bit.  made it funnier.
funnier to who and at who is expense? dunwitty, when negroes start to run amok, the boycotts, when the demostrations commence, I am giving them your home address.  let's see how you like it when they picket your lawn in greenwich, connecticut.
i seriously doubt that will ever happen.  did not i tell you i know your people better than you do. but if by some miracle you are correct, I am going to invite them inside my house and we will have a sit down, discuss it like civil human beings.
just want to say good luck.
break a leg.
can i kiss you too?
naw.  I will take the zero.
you feel good, not nervous?
i feel fine.
not nervous?  relaxed?
sloan, will you take your boss out of here so i can get ready.
your life will never be the same.
let's leave the man in peace so he can get ready.
we both lied to him.
what do you want me to say?
just do not lie to me.
good luck, jukka.  do a good show.
thank you very much.  i always try my best.
same here.
the pleasure is mine.
i want to apologize about my brother and the mau-mau's.  i should not have imposed them on you.
c'mon.  you were only doing what family is supposed to be doing for family.  you gave your brother a shot.  that is all anybody can ask for, an opportunity, a chance, a shot.  he got his.
this is my best friend sleep 'n eat.
and this is my very best friend mantan.
we both left the hustle and bustle of uptown, harlem...
...the big apple, new york, new york.
to come back to our roots.
our alabamy home.  now we are getting countrified.  we is bama's.
no mo' "city slickers."  ahh, can not you smell the sweet aroma of the ripe watermelons and high cotton?
tell 'em what you mean mistuh mantan.
well, thank you mistuh sleep 'n eat.
give or cousins some of dem educated feets.
cousins, i want all of you to go to your windows.  go to your windows and yell.  yell, I am tired of the drugs, the crack babies born out of wedlock to crackhead aids infested parents.  I am tired of the inflated welfare rolls while good wholesome americans bring less and less of their paycheck home every two weeks. I am tired, you are tired, we are all tired of these so-called bible- thumping god fearing, whore mongling professional athletes.  are not you tired of these basketball-dunking, football-running, hop-hip rapping ebonic-speaking sex offenders who got ten kids from ten different ho's?  i know i am and so is sleep 'n eat.
you tellin' the truth.
go to your windows and yell out, scream with all the life you can muster up inside your assaulted, bruised and battered bodies.  I am sick and tired of niggers and I am not going to take it anymore!
yo, dela, i just got the news from the cns brass.  they saw some clips from the pilot and they are rushing it onto the air.  yo, we are a midseason replacement, ordered 12 shows.  we are on in 3 weeks.  didya hear what i just said, yo?
they did not even view a rough cut, just some scenes we quickly cut together.
this has to be a big mistake.
the big mistake was my not believing in your genius earlier.  from the gitgo, from jump street.
hold on a sec, i got a call.
hello, mommy, let me get rid of this other call.
i gots to go, it is my moms.
i want to meet her one day, please tell her the great news.  I am out like vanilla ice.
peerless, your father called.
I will be right over.
so what is up with you?
what do you want to know?
the good stuff.
I am an asthmatic.  been one all my life.  can not go anywhere without an inhaler.
what else?
are you trying to rap to me?
he wants you to come and see him.
he said that?
yes he did.
where is he?
he is performing at some place outside of richmond, virginia.
i can not go all the way down south.
richmond is not all the way down south.
i do not even know why you are still concerned over him.  daddy's not with you.
regardless, he still is your father.
it is going to be hard for me to get away with the show taking off.
even more reason to see him.  he will be overjoyed with your success.
c'mon, mommy.  daddy has not been impressed with anything I have ever done.  from winning my fifth grade spelling bee to the present.
peerless, last time, go see your father.
what do you want?
i want to speak with you.
go away, unless you got my money.
it is me, peerless.
son.  good to seeya.  good to seeya.
it is been a long time.
pull up a chair.  oh, excuse me, this is my lady dot.
pleased to meet you.
glad to meet you, too.  you are all your father talks about.
is that so?
good woman.  i trained her right.
daddy, she is younger than me.
my game is still strong.  no viagra for me, do not need no chemicals. just my tonic.
purely for medicinal purposes.
i thought you had promised mommy you stopped.
i did.  I am not an alcoholic.  i just like to drink.
how did you end up here?
how did i end up at the third rate chittlin' circuit greasy hole in the wall in west hell, virginny? is that what you are asking ya daddy?
that is what I am askin'.
because i had too much pride.  too much integrity.  i would not lick nobody's butt.  some material i refused to do.
daddy, it can not be just because of that.  there had to be other factors.
that is the only reason, period. they only want one certain kind of black comic.
another one of your conspiracies to hold ya career back?
all i know is what happened to me. all that other mess i just file into the "life's too short" category.
enough about me, what is happening with you?
the same old, same old.  trying to get my stuff through.
dem white boys giving you a hard time?
nuthin' i can not handle.
the truth is never let them seeya sweat.  you do that, that is half the battle.
where do you go from here?
three nights charleston, south carolina.
i did not mean that, in life.
in life?  i'ma keep on living, having a good drink, got me a good young woman, make a couple of dollars and make people laugh. have not i always tol' you all nigga's are entertainers?  the question is what are you going to do, peerless?
let's get him over to the bed.
baby, you treat me so good. peerless, you are a good son, i love you.  you never gave me no trouble.
i love you too, daddy.
always keep 'em laughing.
how long has my father been like this?
not that often.  he was excited to see you.
so he drank himself into a stuper?
the drinking is for the pain.  it does not kill it, just dulls it.
so what is up with you?
i was a hostess at this club, your daddy was performing and i had never laughed so hard in my life. he asked me to come with him.  i quit my job and we have been together ever since.
do not tell him it is from me or he will not take it.
your father is proud of you.
he never showed it.
he did the best way he knew how, junebug is stubborn just like you.
everybody say ho!
ho!
that'swhati'mtalkin'bout! that'swhati'mtalkin'bout!  i want to be the first to welcome you to the second taping of mantan - the new millennium minstrel show.
my name is honeycutt and i want to try something different.  can you do this for me?
yeah!
I am going to start a chant and i want you all to follow me.  let's make our own 2 real coons know you are ready to start the show.
c'mon.  it is easy.  it is the same thing you all do out at the yankee game, no different 'cept we changing one word.  everybody go it?
yeah!
alright.  here we go.  let's go niggers!  let's go niggers!
let's go niggers.
let's go niggers!
louder.  they can not hear you.
y'know my lady lucindy?
the one with da big...
not her, the one with the little...
oh her.
tomorrow is her birthday and i want to get her something really nice, like a...
no, not that.  how 'bout...
she hates dem.
too bad.  how 'bout a dress?
sleep 'n eat, one of dem slinky, sexy, little foxy...
mantan, way too short, too tight. get her one of dose...
...to big.  the in-between one, not too tight, not too lose.
that will work.  i just bought one for myself.
not for me, my woolly headed cotton pickin' friend for...
i thought you got rid of...
...that was vicki, her best friend. dat dress will cast ya round...
...dat's too much money.  i can not 'ford it.  i needs me a dress that cost no mo' than...
...aconite get it dat cheap.
I will buy her a less expensive dress, so i can have some money left over to take her out to dinner.
we should go out on a double date.
i heard ya lady is wild.
no.  that is her second cousin. who is married to li'l bit.
oh, because on our first date, she let me...
...no, she didn't...
...yes she did.
...i heard different, thought that was...
...not that time...
so when are you comin' to pick us up?
around...
...too early...
...then what about...
...too late, maybe around...
...perfect...
that is what i like about you and me. we git along...
...like macaroni and cheese...
...like grits and butter...
...like fried and chicken...
who is side are you on?
I am sorry, i can not help it.  it is too funny.
what would their reaction be?  i had not the foggiest.
everybody shut up.
why they gotta make my nose so big?
look at my lips.
i know all of you have seen the overnight ratings.  through the roof.  but in this game you got to be one, two, three steps ahead.  i introduce you to myrna goldfarb. she is the best media consultant in the biz.
first, i would like to say i love the show.  it is very courageous. my parents marched in selma, alabama with dr. king.
myrna is here to help us plan our strategy.
the best defense is offense.
the mantan manifesto.  catchy am not it?  number one.  we gainfully employ african americans, in front of and behind the cameras.  two. let the audience decide.  three. who put these critics in charge? these so-called cultural police? four.  who determines what is black? five.  mantan is a satire.  six. if they can not take a joke, "f" 'em.
we all stick to this, it is smooth sailing.
let myrna finish.
thank you.  and always smile.
yes you!
this show was created, conceived by you, a non-threatening african- american male.  voila.  end of argument.  it can not be racist because you are black.
so you have your small victory, now what?
a small victory is not that small when you have been use to losing.
what is this?
a gift.
for what?
no matter what you think, you did come up with something unique. open it.
the jolly nigger bank.
this is authentic, not a repro, circa turn of the century.
thanks.
i thought it was appropiate.
is that good or bad?
it is all good.  you got a hit show, you are going to need a bank.  plus, i love these old black collectibles.
how so?
to me, it shows part of our history in this country, a time when we were considered inferior, sub-human.
our guest today is pierre delacroix. he is the creator of the highly controversial tv show mantan. let's get right into it.  you have been called by some in the community a traitor, a sellout, an uncle tom. why does your show generate such feelings?
because race has always been a sensitive issue in this country. gary, i have no problem with people disagreeing with the show, it is when folks start trying to mess with my inherent right as an artist, that is when i get mad.  no one, in any way, shape or form should be censored.
no matter how sexist or racist the material may be?
yes.  and i say yes because who is to judge?  who is to stand before us and say this is righteous and this is not?  who?  who can play god?
but the line has to be drawn.
do not you people get it?  we are in the 21st century.  slavery was over four hundred years ago.  all that stuff people talked in the old days, it is over.  folks always crying, white man this, white man that.  let's all grow up.
are you trying to excuse our holocaust?
can i finish?  thank you.  i had a great aunt, we called her sister. she went to her grave not believing man had walked on the moon.
keep trying.
I am on it.
so they can be on tv.
you sound like the media.
this is nothing.  it will blow over by tomorrow.
same thing giuliani said.
tomorrow it will be all about cruelty to animals or some sex scandal.  besides, there is no such thing as bad publicity.
no joke.  serious.
hope the same thing does not happen to me.  that is some big shoes to fill.
in time.
...benedict arnold...
...that simpleton is holding back the race.  they got rid of us and keep those two buffoons, mantan and sleep 'n eat, y'knowwhati'msayin'?
same thing, y'knowwhati'msayin', y'knowwhati'msayin'!
we know.  we know.  yo, check it, my black brothers, we can not let this slide.  not this injustice. nah, no way.  dem' two real coons iz ill.
1/16, tru' 'dat.  true 'dat.
this is a nice place.  it must have cost a pretty penny.
sloan, i got it like 'dat.
oh you do, huh?
just a little something' somethin'.
i hope you save a little somethin' somethin'.
gots no intention of ending up broke.
y'know, at the beginnin' of the century, african-american had to perform in blackface.  you ever heard of bert williams?  he was a great artist.
no, before my time.
you do not read, do you?
never read a book in my whole life.
maybe you need to start.
maybe i need to do a lot of things.
bert williams and the rest, they had to black up.  they had no choice.  they were considered 3/5ths of a human being.  did you know that is written in the constitution of the united states?
why all of a sudden are you flippin' on me?  this blackface thing was part of the deal from the git-go. do not even try to play it like you am not a part of all this.  you down with delacroix.
i just do not want you and cheeba to get hurt.
we can look out for ourselves.
i fell out of my bed last night.
you slept too near where you got in?
i slept too near where i fell out.
you expect the unexpected in circumstances of that peculiarity.
sleep 'n eat, what is the matter with you?  using all dose ten dollar words?
mantan, it is possible that my hyphenated sentences are entirely too complex for all the intellect contained in that diminutive coconut?
hold on, you allegorical hypothesis. do not cross words with me.
am not jemima on the pancake box?
dat's yo uncle ben.  that reminds me, I have seen a lot of troubles lately.
how be dat?
i do not know who i am.
well, I will be an alabama porch monkey's uncle.
years ago i married a widow who had a grown-up daughter.  my daddy visited us often, fell in love with my stepdaughter and married her. thusly he became my son-in-law and my stepdaughter became my mother because she was my father's wife. soon after dis my wife gave birth to a son, which of course was my father's brother in-law and my uncle, for he was the brother of my step-mother.  my father's wife also became the mother of a son.  he was of course my brother and also my grandchild for he was the son of my daughter.  accordingly, my wife was my grandmother because she was my mother's mother.
sleep 'n eat, i was my wife's husband and grandchild at one and the same time.  and lo' and behold, as the husband of a person's grandmother is his grandfather, i mantan, became my own grandfather.
mantan, dat sho' is a whopper.
i feel a song a comin' on.
a song a comin' i feel.
he gots to be did.
did he gots to be.
I am not drinking the kool-aid.
what are you talkin' about?
jim jones, y'know.  I am not drinking the kool-aid.
meaning?
I am out.
good.  I have got a broken back from carrying you all these years anyway.
so that is what you been doing?
damn skippy.
you are in this up till ya neck.
do not shoot me, I am just the piano players.
you can walk away.  we both can.
yeah, that is easy for you to do. you never had any talent.
I am so tired of you running that. i always worked hard for you.  you think I am a leech, a kling-on, i quit.
why do not you call him?
for what?  he left.  not me.
you are sure this is a good idea.
my people love me.
I will be down front.  you better start putting your face on.
y'know what?
what?
you look beautiful like that.
what are you?  a man or a mouse? are you a punk?  punking out on me?
no.
you getting scared because some people do not like what you are doing?
yo, dela, they tried to lynch my black ass up in dat piece.
you have made it from the guttermost to the uppermost.  do not you know you should never let them see you sweat.  y'knowwhati'msayin'?
yeah.
and now is definitely not the time to bitch up.
our guest tonight is the extraordinary, talented performer, mantan.  thanks for coming in.
tavis, thank you for having me.
before we begin, i want to thank you for coming on my show for your first television interview.  you could have chosen mike wallace, barbara walters, jane pauley, whatnot but you are here.
I am more comfortable around my people.
let's jump right into it.  your show has sparked a world of controversy, provoked a tone of dialogue.  how do you see all of this?
yo, tavis, check it out.  this is the two-one, the 21st century and it is all about the money.  like my man mase says, "it's all about the benjamins."
money and nothing else?
money makes the world go round.  it am not no joke being poor.  i know whati'mtalkin''bout. y'knowwhati'msayin'?  I have lived on the street.  I have been homeless. I have learned how to play the game, work the game, be in the game.
is it inevitable that the game plays you?
no if you go with the flow, tavis. that is what a lot of negroes do not understand.  protesting is not going to do a damn thing.  if people do not like our satire in our number one hit show then do not watch it.  or better yet write your own show.  do it better.
do not you feel that is a simplistic retort?
i do not know what a retort is, but it is simple.  mantan - the new millennium minstrel show is universal.  it is not just for negroes in compton or 125th in harlem.  this is america.  our ancestors helped build this country, we got a right, just like everybody else.  I am not going to box myself in. this show makes people think, and they are laughing at the same time.
i admit, that is a very hard thing to do.  quickly let's go to the phones before we pay the bills and hear from our proud sponsors, da bomb.  125% pure pleasure malt liquor.  it makes you wanna get ya freak on and timmi hillnigger. 125% authentic git-toe gear when you want to be git-toed fabulous.
our first caller is big black from brooklyn.  go 'head.
microphone check, one, two.  one, two.  yo tavis, i be lovin' yo show but mantan you is foul.  why you perpetrating?  you a sellout.
and big black from brooklyn, what do you do?
what do i do?
what do you do?
I am a revolutionary.
and another thing, you better stay away from my sister or you better...
ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to go there.  we can all agree to disagree without making threats.
why did you do that?
i do not want to hear it.
how long have you and hambone been hangin' out?
you are the one that put us together. we are friends.
that crazy brother of yours does not think so.
he is just playing big brother.
oh, is he?  you getting jiggy with mantan?
please do not go there.
dunwitty and i feel you have been getting too close to him, getting his mind all messed up.
i can not lie to him.  if he asks me something, i tell him what i think.
do you have to be so damn forthright?
dela, you should try it sometime. come into the light.
light?
that which has been hidden in darkness is now in the light.  this bucket of blood.
you can talk all that mumbo jumbo if you want to but your hands are much bloody.  i know where i made my big mistake.  i have a general rule, never get involved romantically with somebody crazier than you.
this is crazy.
that is why it will be so much fun.
that was a mistake, but i do not regret it.
the first and only time.  a big mistake.  I am going to have to ask you not to see mantan anymore.
work related or otherwise?
otherwise.  i trust you know the difference.  you are an intelligent woman, finished at nyu.
dela, kiss my big black ass.
and that is how you got me in the first place.
you should not even be mad at me over sloan.
what you did is dead wrong.
oh, is it?  buddy boy, in this business if people do not produce, they get fired.
sloan is the hardest working person I have ever met.
let me ask you a question, if i may. how do you think she got the job in the first place?  i do not mean to burst your bubble, mantan the marvelous, but sloan is an opportunity.
i do not believe it.
do i have to spell it out for you? in fact, go ask sloan yourself.
how did you get this gig?
worked my black ass off, first as an intern, then worked my way up to this position.
you leave something out?
after my internship expired, dela was impressed and offered me a position as his assistant.
and?
and what?
stop playing me sloan.
just ask me what you want to know.
oh, you gonna make me say it.
say what, manray?
did you ever sleep with dela?
we did it one time, only once.  it had nothing to do with the job, it was stupid.  everything I have got I have earned.
aw, c'mon.
that is ancient history.  that has nothing to do with you and i.
so you say.  sloan, you wuz going to use me up just like you used dela? work it to the top.  i never imagined people in this biz could flip on you like "ihop."  I am damn happy dela fired ya ass.
forget about me, are you a puppet for dela?
do not try to change to the subject.
why do not you answer?
i know i will not be your puppet.
you can go now.
i wuz leaving anyway, for good.
I am doing okay.  been reading about your show, it is all over everywhere. i watched it is all over everywhere. i watched it once.  i thought you said there would be no buffoonery.
you going to attack me too.  the show is a hit.  are not you happy for me?
of course I am happy for you. you have worked very hard for your success.
yes i have, very hard.  has daddy called?
no.
not at all?
you know how your daddy is.
if and when he calls, please do not forget to ask him if he is seen mantan.
i will not forget.  when are you coming up here to see your mother?
soon.
mantan, we got a show to tape.
my name is manray, goddamnit.
kook and the gang, it is manray. let's do the taping.  you go back to your dressing room, get dressed and blacken up.
I am not playin' myself no mo'.
how you sound?
i will not do it anymore.
manray, I am very sorry about ya boy cheeba and sloan.  believe me, it gave me no joy pulling ya coattail about her, just lookin' out for a brother.  i feel you, all this stuff happenin' at once but you can not let if affect your work.  you got to be professional.
I am always going to be that.  but i am not doing no more buck dancing.
no costume.  no blackface.
you truly are a dancing fool.
yo black, you looking for trouble.
do not make me have to use this.
i did not think this was in your studies at nyu.
i told you but you would not listen. you never listened to me.
give me the gun.
