i thought you were going to join us. jesus, garland, you left me alone with those people.
do not panic, I will join you in a minute.  what is you think of richard and poppy?
we have to talk a little business. I have just been on the phone to los angeles.  barton, capitol pictures wants to put you under contract. they have offered you a thousand dollars a week. i think i can get them to go as high as two.
to do what?
what do you do far a living?
I am not sure anymore. i guess i try to make a difference.
fair enough. no pressure here, barton, because i respect you, but let me point out a couple of things. one, here you make a difference to five hundred fifty people a night  if the show sells out.  eighty five million people go to the pictures every week.
to see pap.
yes, generally, to see pap. however, point number two: a brief tenure in hollywood could support you through the writing of any number of plays.
i do not know, garland; my place is here right now. i feel I am on the brink of success-
I would say you are already enjoying some.
...i guess I am sprouting off again. but i am certain of this, garland: I am capable of more good work. maybe better work than i did in choirs. it just does not seem to me that los angeles is the place to lead the life of mind.
okay barton, you are the artist, I am just the ten percenter. you decide what you want and I will make it happen. I am only asking that your decision be informed by a little realism  if i can use that word and hollywood in the same breath.
...look, they love you, kid  everybody does. you see caven's review in the herald?
no, what did it say?
take my copy. you are the toast of broadway and you have the opportunity to redeem that for a little cash  strike that, a lot of cash.
welcome to the hotel earle. may i help you, sir?
I am checking in. barton fink.
f-i-n-k. fink, barton. that must be you, huh?
must be.
okay then, everything seems to be in order. everything seems to be in order.
...are you a tranz or a rez?
excuse me?
transient or resident?
i do not know... i mean, I will be here, uh, indefinitely.
rez. that will be twenty-five fifty a week payable in advance. checkout time is twelve sharp, only you can forget that on account you are a rez. if you need anything, anything at all, you dial zero on your personal in-room telephone and talk to me. my name is chet.
well, I am going to be working here, mostly at night; I am a writer. do you have room service?
kitchen closes at eight but I am the night clerk. i can always ring out for sandwiches.
...okay
huh?
okey-dokey, go ahead.
what
do not you wanna go to your room?!
...those your only bags?
the others are being sent.
how d'ya like your room!
...who is this?
chet!
...who?
chet! from downstairs!
...where did we put him?
I am at the earle.
never heard of it. let's move him to the grand, or the wilshire, or hell, he can stay at my place.
thanks, but i wanted a place that was less...
less hollywood?  sure, say it, it is not a dirty word. sat whatever the hell you want. the writer is king here at capitol pictures. you do not believe me, take a look at your paycheck at the end of every week  that is what we think of the writer.  ...so what kind of pictures does he like?
mr. fink has not given a preference, mr.  lipnik.
how is about it, bart?
to be honest, i do not go to the pictures much, mr. lipnik
that is okay, that is okay, that is okay  that is just fine. you probably just walked in here thinking that was going to be a handicap, thinking we wanted people who knew something about the medium, maybe even thinking there was all kind of technical mumbo- jumbo to learn. you were dead wrong. we are only interested in one thing: can you tell a story, bart?  can you make us laugh, can you make us cry, can you make us wanna break out in joyous song? is that more than one thing? okay.  the point is, i run this dump and i do not know the technical mumbo-jumbo. why do i run it? I have got horse-sense, goddamnit. showmanship. and also, and i hope lou told you this, i bigger and meaner than any other kike in this town. did you tell him that, lou? and i do not mean my dick's bigger than yours, it is not a sexual thing  although, you are the writer, you would know more about that. coffee?
...yes, thank you.
lou.
...thanks lou. join us. join us. talking about the wallace beery picture.
excellent picture.
we got a treatment on it yet?
no, not yet jack. we just bought the story. saturday evening post.
okay, the hell with the story. wallace beery is a wrestler. i wanna know his hopes, his dreams. naturally, he will have to get mixed up with a bad element. and a romantic interest. you know the drill.  romantic interest, or else a young kid. an orphan. what do you think, lou? wally a little too old for a romantic interest?  look at me, a writer in the room and I am askin' lou what the goddamn story should be!
...well bart, which is it? orphan? dame?
...both maybe?
...maybe we should do a treatment.
ah, hell, let bart take a crack at it.  he will get into the swing of things or i do not know writers. let's make it a dame, bart, keep it simple. we do not got to tackle the world our first time out. the important thing is we all have that barton fink feeling, but since you are barton fink I am assuming you have it in spades.  seriously bart, i like you. we are off to a good start. dammit, if all our writers were like you i would not have to get so goddamn involved. I would like to see something by the end of the week.
neighbor, I would feel better about the damned inconvenience if you would let me buy you a drink.
that is all right, really, thank you.
all right, hell, you trying to work and me carrying on in there. look, the liquor's good, wuddya say?
... you got a glass? it is the least i can do.
okay... a quick one, sure...
yeah, just a nip. i feel like hell, all the carryings-on next door.
that is okay, i assure you. it is just that i was trying to work
what kind of work do you do, barton, if you do not mind my asking?
well, I am a writer, actually.
you do not say. that is a tough racket. my hat's off to anyone who can make a go of it. damned interesting work, I would imagine.
can be. not easy, but
damned difficult, I would imagine.
and what is your line, mr. meadows?
hell no! call me charlie. well barton, you might say i sell peace of mind. insurance is my game  door-to-door, human contact, still the only way to move merchandise.
...in spite of what you might think from tonight, I am pretty good at it.
does not surprise me at all.
hell yes. because i believe in it. fire, theft, and casualty are not things that only happen to other people  that is what i tell 'em. writing does not work out, you might want to look into it. providing for basic human need  a fella could do worse.
thanks, I will keep it in mind.
what kind of scribbler are you  newspaperman did you say?
no, I am actually writing for the pictures now
pictures! jesus!
...is the egg showing or what?!
that is okay; actually i am just starting out in the movies  though i was pretty well established in new york, some renown there,
oh, it is an exciting time then. I am not the best-read mug on the planet, so i guess it is no surprise i did not recognize your name. jesus, i feel like a heel.
that is okay, charlie. I am a playwright. my shows've only played new york. last one got a hell of a write-up in the herald. i guess that is why they wanted me here.
hell, why not? everyone wants quality. what kind of venue, that is to say, thematically, uh...
what do i write about?
caught me trying to be fancy! yeah, that is it, bart.
well, that is a good question. strange as it may seem, charlie, i guess i write about people like you. the average working stiff. the common man.
well am not that a kick in the head!
yeah, i guess it is. but in a way, that is exactly the point. there is a few people in new york  hopefully our numbers are growing  who feel we have an opportunity now to forge something real out of everyday experience, create a theater for the masses that is based on a few simple truths  not on some shopworn abstractions about drama that does not hold true today, if they ever did...
...i do not guess this means much to you.
hell, i could tell you some stories
and that is the point, that we all have stories. the hopes and dreams of the common man are as noble as those of any king. it is the stuff of life  why should not it be the stuff of theater?  goddamnit, why should that be a hard pill to swallow? do not call it new theater, charlie; call it real theater. call it our theater.
i can see you feel pretty strongly about it.
well, i do not mean to get up on my high horse, but why should not we look at ourselves up there?  who cares about the fifth earl of bastrop and lady higginbottom and  and  and who killed nigel grinch-gibbons?
i can feel my butt getting sore already.
exactly, charlie! you understand what I am saying  a lot more than some of these literary types. because you are a real man!
and i could tell you some stories
sure you could!  and yet many writers do everything in their power to insulate themselves from the common man  from where they live, from where they trade, from where they fight and love and converse and  and  and... so naturally their work suffers, and regresses into empty formalism and  well, I am spouting off again, but to put it in your language, the theater becomes as phony as a three dollar bill.
yeah, i guess that is tragedy right there.
frequently played, seldom remarked.
you are all right, charlie. I am glad you stopped by. I am sorry if  well i know i sometimes run on.
hell no! jesus, I am the kind of guy, I will let you know if I am bored. i find it all pretty damned interesting. I am the kind schmoe who is generally interested in the other guy's point of view.
well, we have got something in common then.
sure, sure charlie, you can help by just being yourself.
well, i can tell you some stories
...and look, I am sorry as hell about the interruption. too much revelry late at night, you forget there are other people in the world.
see you, charlie.
I am a writer, mr. geisler. ted okum said i should drop by morning to see you about the
ever act?
...huh? no, I am
we need indians for a norman steele western.
I am a writer. ted o
think about it, fink. writers come and go; we always need indians.
I am a writer. ted okum said you are producing this wallace beery picture I am working on.
what!?  ted okum does not know shit. they have assigned me enough pictures for a goddamn year. what ted okum does not know you could almost squeeze into the hollywood bowl.
then who should i talk to?
do not worry about it. it is just a b picture. i bring it in on budget, they will book it without even screening it. life is too short.
but lipnik said he wanted to look at the script, see something by the end of the week.
sure he did. and he forgot about it before your ass left his sofa.
okay. I am just having trouble getting started. it is funny, I am blocked up. i feel like i need some kind of indication of... what is expected
wallace beery. wrestling picture. what do you need, a road map?
...look, you are confused? you need guidance? talk to another writer.
who?
i beg your pardon?
w.p. mayhew? the writer?
just bill, please.
sir, I am flattered that you even recognize my name. my god, i had no idea you were in hollywood.
all of us undomesticated writers eventually make their way out here to the great salt lick. mebbe that is why i allus have such a powerful thrust.
...a little social lubricant, mistuh fink?
it is still a little early for me.
so be it.
is, uh... is he okay?
he will be... when he can not write, he drinks.
i am sorry, it is so embarassing.
how about you? will you be alright?
I will be fine... are you a writer, mr fink?
yes i am. I am working on a wres  please call me barton.
I will tell bill you dropped by. I am sure he will want to reschedule your appointment.
perhaps you and i could get together at some point also. I am sorry if that sounds abrupt. i just... i do not know anyone here in this town.
perhaps the three of us, mr. fink.
please, barton.
barton. you see, barton, I am not just bill's secretary  bill and i are... i love. we-
i see.
...i know this must look... funny.
no, no
howdy, neighbor.
charlie. how are you.
jesus, i hope I am not interrupting you again. i heard you walking around in here.  figured I would drop by.
yeah, come in charlie. had not really gotten started yet  what happened to your ear?
oh, yeah. an ear infection, chronic thing.  goes away for a while, but it always comes back. got to put cotton in it to staunch the flow of pus. do not worry, it is not contagious.
seen a doctor?
ah, doctors. what is he going to tell me?  can not trade my head in for a new one.
no, i guess you are stuck with the one you have got. have a seat.
thanks, I would invite you over to my place, but it is a goddamn mess. you married, bart?
nope.
i myself have yet to be lassoed.
...got a sweetheart?
no... i guess it is something about my work. i get so worked up over it, i do not know; i do not really have a lot of attention left over, so it would be a little unfair...
yeah, the ladies do ask for attention. in my experience, they pretend to give it, but it is generally a smoke- screen for demanding it back  with interest. how about family, bart? how're you fixed in that department?
my folks live in brooklyn, with my uncle.
mine have passed on. it is just the three of us now...
...what's the expression  me myself and i.
sure, that is tough, but in a sense, we are all alone in this world are not we charlie?  I am often surrounded by family and friends, but...
...it was taken by one of my policy holders. they are more than just customers to me, barton.  they really appreciate what i have to offer them. ya see, her hubby was out of town at the time
you know, in a way, i envy you charlie.  your daily routine  you know what is expected. you know the drill. my job is to plumb the depths, so to speak, dredge something up from inside, something honest. there is no road map for that territory...
...this must be boring you.
not at all. it is damned interesting.
yeah...
...probably sounds a little grand coming from someone who is writing a wrestling picture for wallace beery.
beery! you got no beef there! he is good.  hell of an actor  though, for my money, you can not beat jack oakie. a stitch, oakie. funny stuff, funny stuff. but do not get me wrong  beery, a wrestling picture, that could be a pip. wrestled some myself back in school. i guess you know the basic moves.
nope, never watched any. I am not that interested in the act itself
okay, but hell, you should know what it is. i can show you in about thirty seconds.
...you're a little out of your weight class, but just for purposes of demonstration
that is all right, really
not a bit of it, compadre! easiest thing in the world! you just get down on your knees to my left, slap your right hand here...
...all right now, when i say "ready... wrestle!"  you try and pin me, and i try and pin you. that is the whole game. got it?
...yeah, okay.
ready... wrestle!
it is okay, it is okay.
well, that is all that wrestling is. except usually there is more grunting and squirming before the pin. well, it is your first time. and you are out of your weight class.
if i close m'eyes i can almost smell the live oak.
that is hamburger grease, bill.
well, m'olfactory's turnin' womanish on me  lyin' and deceitful...
...still, i must say. i have not felt peace like this since the grand productive days. do not you find it so, barton? am not writin' peace?
well... actually, no bill...
...no, I have always found that writing comes from a great inner pain. maybe it is a pain that comes from a realization that one must do something for one's fellow man  to help somehow to ease his suffering.  maybe it is a personal pain. at any rate, i do not believe good work is possible without it.
mmm. wal, me, i just enjoy maikn' things up. yessir. escape... it is when i can not write, can not escape m'self, that i want to tear m'head off and run screamin' down the street with m'balls in a fruitpickers pail. mm...
...this'll sometimes help.
that does not help anything, bill.
so now I am s'posed to roll over like an old bitch dog gettin' ger belly scratched.
bill
look, maybe it is none of my business, but a man with your talent  do not you think your first obligation would be to your gift? should not you be doing whatever you have to do to work again?
and what would that be, son?
i do not know exactly. but i do know what you are doing with that drink. you are cutting yourself off from your gift, and from me and audrey, and from your fellow man, and from everything your art is about.
no son, thisahere moonshine's got nothin' to do with shuttin' folks out. no, I am usin' it to build somethin'.
what is that?
I am buildin' a levee. gulp by gulp, brick by brick. raisin' up a levee to keep that ragin' river of manure from lappin' at m'door.
m'honey pretends to be impatient with me, barton, but she will put up with anything.
not anything, bill. do not test me.
am i? maybe to a schoolboy's eye. people who know about the human heart, though, mebbe they would say, bill over here, he gives his honey love, and she pays him back with pity  the basest coin there is.
stop it, bill!
let him go.
that son of a bitch... do not get me wrong, he is a fine writer.
I will jus' walk on down to the pacific, and from there i'll... improvise.
are you all right?
...oh barton, i feel so... sorry for him!
what?! he is a son of a bitch!
no, sometimes he just... well, he thinks about estelle. his wife still lives in fayettesville. she's... disturbed.
really?...
...well that does not excuse his behavior.
he will wander back when he is sober and apologize. he always does.
okay, but that does not excuse his
barton. empathy requires... understanding.
what. what do not i understand?
i hope these are your shoes.
hi, charlie.
because that would mean they gave you mine.
yeah, as a matter of fact they did. come on in.
jesus, what a day I have had. ever had one of those days?
seems like nothing but, lately.
jesus, what a day. felt like i couldn't've sold ice water in the sahara. jesus. okay, so you do not want insurance, so okay, that is your loss. but god, people can be rude. feel like i have to talk to a normal person like just to restore a little of my...
well, my pleasure. i could use a little lift myself.
a little lift, yeah...
...did i say rude? people can be goddamn cruel. especially some of their housewives. okay, so I have got a weight problem. that is my cross to bear. i dunno...
well it's... it is a defense mechanism.
defense against what? insurance? something they need? something they should be thanking me for offering? a little peace of mind?...
...listen to me belly-achin'. as if my problems amounted to a hill of beans. how goes the life of the mind?
well, it is been better. i can not seem to get going on this thing. that one idea, the one that lets you get started  i still have not gotten it. maybe i only had one idea in me  my play. maybe once that was done, i was done being a writer.  christ, i feel like a fraud, sitting here staring at this paper.
those two love-birds next door drivin' you nuts?
how did you know about that?
know about it? i can practically see how they are doin' it. brother, i wish i had a piece of that.
yeah, but
seems like i hear everything that goes on in this dump. pipes or somethin'. I am just glad i do not have to ply my trade in the wee-wee hours.
...ah, you will lick this picture business, believe me. you have got a head on your shoulders. what is it they say? where there is a head, there is a hope?
where there is life there is hope.
and there is hope for you too, charlie. tomorrow i bet you sell a half-dozen policies.
thanks, brother. but the fact is, i gotta pull up stakes temporarily.
you are leaving?
in a few days. out to your stompin' grounds as a matter of fact  new york city. things have gotten all balled up at the head office.
I am truly sorry to hear that, charlie. I will miss you.
well hell, buddy, do not pull a long face!  this is still home for me  i keep my room, and I will be back sooner or later...
...your room does that too?
i guess the heat's sweating off the wallpaper.
what a dump...
...i guess it seems pathetic to a guy like you.
well...
well it is pathetic, is not it? i mean to a guy from new york.
what do you mean?
this kind of heat. it is pathetic.
well, i guess you pick your poison.
so they say.
do not pick up and leave without saying goodbye.
course not, compadre. you will see me again.
wuddya got for me  what the hell happened to your face?
nothing. it is just a mosquito bite.
like hell it is; there are no mosquitos in los angeles. mosquitos breed in swamps  this is a desert town. wuddya got for me?
well i...
on the beery picture! where are we? wuddya got?
well, to tell you the truth, I am having some trouble getting started
getting started! christ jesus! started?!  you mean you do not have anything?!
well not much.
what do you think this is? hamlet? gone with the wind? ruggles of red gap? it is a goddamn b picture! big men in tights! you know the drill!
I am afraid i do not really understand that genre. maybe that is the prob-
understand shit! i though you were gonna consult another writer on this!
well, I have talked to bill mayhew-
bill mayhew! some help! the guy's a souse!
he is a great writer
a souse!
you do not understand. he is in pain, because he can not write-
souse! souse! he manages to write his name on the back of his paycheck every week!
but... i thought no one cared about this picture.
you thought! where did you get that from?  you thought! i do not know what the hell you said to lipnik, but the sonofabitch likes you! you understand that, fink? he likes you! he is taken an interest. never make lipnik like you. never!
i do not understand-
are you deaf, he likes you! he is taken an interest! what the hell did you say to him?
i did not say anything-
well he is taken an interest!  that means he will make your life hell, which i could care less about, but since i drew the short straw to supervise this turkey, he is going to be all over me too! fat-assed sonofabitch called me yesterday to ask how it is going  do not worry, i covered for you. told him you were making progress and we were all very excited. i told him it was great, so now my ass is on the line.  he wants you to tell him all about it tomorrow.
i can not write anything by tomorrow.
who said write? jesus, jack can not read.  you got to tell it to him-tell him something for chrissake.
well what do i tell him?
pick it up... pick it up. pick it-
hello.
audrey, listen, i need help. i know it is late and i should not be calling you like this  believe me i would not have if i could see any other alternative, but i  I am sorry - listen, how are you  I am sorry. you doing okay?
...who is this?
barton. I am sorry, it is barton fink.
barton, I am afraid it is not a good time-
drown all those rascals...
I am sorry, i just feel like i know i should not ask, i just need some kind of help, i just, i have a deadline tomorrow-
i said drown 'em all! who is that?
all right barton, I will see if i can slip away-
who is that?! gaddamn voices come into the house... sons of bitches...
if you could, I would
if i can. he gets jealous; he-
goddamn voices... drown 'em!
i need help, audrey.
I will try to slip out. if he quiets down, passes out... I am afraid he thinks  well, he said you were a buffoon, barton. he becomes irrational
hesh up! be still now! drown 'em! drown 'em! drown
hello, barton.
audrey, thank you for coming. thank you.  I am sorry to be such a... such a... thank you.
now that is all right, barton. everything'll be all right.
yes. thank you. how is bill?
oh, he's... he drifted off. he will sleep for a while now. what is it you have to do, exactly?
well i have to come up with  an outline, I would guess you call it. the story. the whole goddamn story. soup to nuts. three acts. the whole goddamn-
it is alright, barton. you do not have to write actual scenes?
no, but the whole goddamn  audrey? have you ever had to read any of bill's wrestling scenarios?
yes, I am afraid i have.
what are they like? what are they about?
well, usually, they're... simply morality tales. there is a good wrestler, and a bad wrestler whom he confronts at the end. in between, the good wrestler has a love interest or a child he has to protect.  bill would usually make the good wrestler a backwoods type, or a convict. and sometimes, instead of a waif, he would have the wrestler protecting an idiot manchild.  the studio always hated that. oh, some of the scripts were so... spirited!
well... this.
you wrote his scripts for him?
well, the basic ideas were frequently his-
you wrote bill's scripts!  jesus christ, you wrote his  what about before that?
before what?
before bill came to hollywood.
well, bill was always the author, so to speak-
what do you mean so to speak?! audrey, how long have you been his... secretary?
barton, i think we should concentrate on our little project-
i want to know how many of bill's books you wrote!
barton!
i want to know!
barton, honestly, only the last couple-
hah!
and my input was mostly... editorial, really, when he would been drinking-
I will bet. jesus  "the grand productive days." what a goddamn phony.
...can i come in?
no!... I am fine. thank you.
are you sure
no... no...
barton. are you all right?
no... can i come in?
why do not we go to your room-
charlie, I am in trouble. you have got to help me.
get a grip on yourself, brother. whatever the problem is, we will sort it out.
charlie, I am in trouble  something horrible's happened  I have got to call the police...
...will you stay with me till they get here?
do not worry about it, barton. we can sort it-
...jesus, barton, what the hell is this?  what are we going to do?
I have got to call the police  or you could call for me
hold on
you gotta believe me
hold on
i did not do this, i did not do this
hold on. stop. take a deep breath. tell me what happened.
i do not know! i woke up, she was... god, you got to believe me!
i believe you, brother, but this do not look good.
we gotta call the police
hold on. i said hold on, so hold on.
yeah.
what do you think happened?
i do not know!  maybe it was her... boyfriend. i passed out. i do not know.  will not the police be able to
stop with the police! wake up, friend! this does not look good! they hang people for this!
but i did not do it  do not you believe me?
i believe you  i know you. but why should the police?
jesus... they can tell that...
they gotta believe me, charlie! they gotta have mercy!
you are in pictures, barton. even if you got cleared eventually, this would ruin you.
...uh-huh... where is audrey?
she is dead, barton! if that was her name.
yeah... rye whiskey?
boy! you writers! work hard, play hard!  that is what i hear, anyway...
...it's a tenement building. on the lower east side...
great! he is poor, this wrestler! he is had to struggle!
and then... well...
...can i be honest, mr. lipnik?
can you?  you damn well better be. jesus, if i had not been honest in my business dealings  well, of course, you can not always be honest, not with the sharks swimming around this town  but if you are a writer, you do not think about those things  if I would been totally honest, i would not be within a mile of this pool  unless i was cleaning it. but that is no reason for you not to be. honest, i mean.  not cleaning the pool.
mr. lipnik, i
this man creates for a living! he puts food on your table and on mine! thank him for it!  thank him, you ungrateful sonofabitch! thank him or you are fired!
get down on your knees, you sonofabitch!  get down on your knees and kiss this man's feet!
mr. lipnik, please
i  mr. lipnik
kiss this man's feet!!
mr. lipnik, i
i apologize, barton.
no no, mr. breeze has actually been a great help
you do not have to cover for him. it is noble of you, but these things happen in business.
mr. lipnik, i really would feel much better if you could reconsider
ah, forget it, kid. i want you to pull this out of your head. if that sonofabitch would not apologize to you, goddammit, i will. i respect your artistry and your methods, and if you can not fill us in yet, well hell, we should be kissing your feet for your fine efforts.
jesus... you are leaving.
have to, old timer. just for a while.
jesus, charlie, i...
everything's okay, believe me. i know it is rough mentally, but everything's taken care of.
charlie! I have got no one else here! you are the only person i know in los angeles...
it is okay... it is okay...
charlie, i feel like I am going crazy  like I am losing my mind. i do not know what to do... i did not do it, believe me. I am sure of that, charlie. i just...
...i just do not know what... to do
you got to get a grip on, brother. you got to just carry on  just for a few days, till i get back. try and stay here, keep your door locked. do not talk to anyone. we just got to keep our heads and we will figure it out.
yeah, but charlie
dammit, do not argue with me. you asked me to believe you  well i do. now do not argue with me.
sure, charlie.
funny, huh, when everything that is important to a guy, everything he wants to keep from a lifetime  when he can fit it into a little box like that. i guess... i guess it is kind of pathetic.
it is more than I have got.
well, keep it for me. maybe it will bring you good luck. yeah, it will help you finish your script. you will think about me...
you will be back?
do not worry about that, compadre. I will be back.
l.a.p.d.
uh-huh.
got a couple questions to ask ya.
what do you do, fink?
i write.
oh yeah? what kind of write?
well as a matter of fact, i write for the pictures.
big fuckin' deal.
you want my partner to kiss your ass?
would that be good enough for ya?
no, i  i did not mean to sound
what did you mean?
i  I have got respect for  for working guys, like you
jesus! am not that a load off! you live in 605?
yeah.
how long you been up there, fink?
a week, eight, nine days
is this multiple choice?
nine days  tuesday
...yeah, he... he lives next door to me.
that is right, fink, he lives next door to you.
ever talk to him?
...once or twice. his name is charlie meadows.
yeah, and I am buck rogers.
his name is mundt. karl mundt.
also known as madman mundt.
he is a little funny in the head.
what did... what did he
funny. as in, he likes to ventilate people with a shotgun and then cut their heads off.
yeah, he is funny that way.
i...
started in kansas city. couple of housewives.
couple of days ago we see the same m.o. out in los feliz.
doctor. ear, nose and throat man,.
all of which he is now missin'.
well, some of his throat was there.
physician, heal thyself.
good luck with no fuckin' head.
anyway.
hollywood precinct finds another stiff yesterday. not too far from here. this one's better looking than the doc.
female caucasian, thirty years old. nice tits. no head. you ever see mundt with anyone meets that description?
but, you know, with the head still on.
...no. i never saw him with anyone else.
so. you talked to mundt, what about?
nothing, really. said he was in the insurance business.
yeah, and he is buck rogers.
no reputable company would hire a guy like that.
well that is what he said.
what else?
he... I am trying to think... nothing, really... he... he said he liked jack oakie pictures.
ya know, fink, ordinarily we say anything you might remember could be helpful. but I will be frank with you: that is not helpful.
ya see how he is not writing it down?
fink. that is a jewish name, is not it?
...hello.
garland, it is me.
barton? what time is it? are you all right?
yeah, I am fine, garland  i have to talk to you. I am calling long distance.
okay.
...what is it barton? are you okay?
I am fine, garland, but i have to talk with you.
go ahead, son.
it is about what I am writing, garland. it is really... i think it is really big.
what do you mean, barton?
not big in the sense of large  although it is that too. i mean important. this may be the most important work I have done.
well, i'm... glad to hear that
very important, garland. i just thought you should know that. whatever happens.
...that's fine.
have you read the bible, garland?
...barton, is everything okay?
yes... is not it?
well, I am just asking. you sound a little
sound a little what?
well, you just... sound a little
...i thought you said you were a writer.
i dunno, duke. i kinda liked it.
second one of your friends to end up dead.
you did not tell us you knew the dame.
sixth floor too high for you, fink?
give you nose bleeds?
charlie... charlie's back...
no kidding, bright boy  we smelt mundt all over this. was he the idea man?
tell us where the heads are, maybe they will go easy on you.
only fry you once.
could you come back later?  it is just...  too hot... my head is killing me.
all right, forget the heads. where is mundt, fink?
he teach you to do it?
you two have some sick sex thing?
sex?! he is a man! we wrestled!
you are a sick fuck, fink.
why is it so goddamn hot out here?
...fred...
...don't look at me like that, neighbor.  it is just me  charlie.
i hear it is mundt. madman mundt.
but charlie  why me? why
because you do not listen!
fink.
mr. lipnik.
colonel lipnik, if you do not mind.
...i was commissioned yesterday in the army reserve. henry morgenthau arranged it. he is a dear friend.
congratulations.
actually it has not officially gone through yet. had wardrobe whip this up. you got to pull teeth to get anything done in this town. i can understand a little red tape in peacetime, but now it is all-out warfare against the japs. little yellow bastards.  they would love to see me sit this one out.
yes sir, they
anyway, i had lou read your script for me.
...i got to tell you, fink. it will not wash.
with all due respect, sir, i think it is the best work I have done.
do not gas me, fink. if you are opinion mattered, then i guess I would resign and let you run the the studio. it does not and you won't, and the lunatics are not going to run this particular asylum. so let's put a stop to that rumor right now.
yes sir.
i had to call beery this morning, let him know we were pushing the picture back.  after all I would told him about quality, about that barton fink feeling. how disappointed we were. wally was heartbroken. the man was devastated. he was  well, i did not actually call him, lou did. but that is a fair description, is not it lou?
yes, colonel.
hell, i could take you through it step by step, explain why your story stinks, but i will not insult your intelligence. well all right, first of all: this is a wrestling picture; the audience wants to see action, drama, wrestling, and plenty of it. they do not wanna see a guy wrestling with his soul  well, all right, a little bit, for the critics  but you make it the carrot that wags the dog. too much of it and they head for exits and i do not blame 'em. there is plenty of poetry right inside that ring, fink. look at "hell ten feet square".
"blood, sweat, and canvas".
look at "blood, sweat, and canvas". these are big movies, fink. about big men, in tights  both physically and mentally. but especially physically. we do not put wallace beery in some fruity movie about suffering  i thought we were together on that.
I am sorry if i let you down.
you did not let me down. or even lou. we do not live or die by what you scribble, fink. you let ben geisler down. he liked you. trusted you. and that is why he is gone. fired.  that guy had a heart as big as the outdoors, and you fucked him. he tried to convince me to fire you too, but that would be too easy. no, you are under contract and you are going to stay that way.  anything you write will be the property of capitol pictures. and capitol pictures will not produce anything you write. not until you grow up a little. you am not no writer, fink  you are a goddamn write-off.
i tried to show you something beautiful.  something about all of us
