do not like 'em, do not eat 'em, do not make no damn difference to me.
you know that was like a quadruple negative?
can i at least have a drink?
it is ten thirty in the morning.
yeah, if you have slept.
you know the law -- no liquor before noon. could lose my license.
do not you mean "don't need no liquor license not taken away from me"?
hurricane kept you up, too?
yeah, and i could have used the sleep. I am supposed to meet people here tonight, try and get some work going.
bill styles...
who?
old friend. have not talked to him in -- 911. can i use your phone?
this is totally unnecessary --
he asked to see a policeman, we are getting him a policeman.
but this guy you called, he is not even army --
he is former army and the best I have ever seen in a room. besides, he knows the territory, we did basic together here.  you have had three hours with dunbar and have not gotten a peep, we need to take a different tack.
he is not army, it is not official --
then it is unofficial.
how are you?
been better.  i read about what is been happening with you... i should have called --
what kind of trouble are you in?
that bad?
would i have called you if it wasn't? if there was any other way --
tell me what i can do.
this is warrant officer julia osborne, the closest thing we have to an in- house investigator.
and here you are going out of house. how is that make you feel, jules?
hostile and uncooperative.
fantastic. you want to tell me what is going on?
the official term for it is "clusterfuck". by the time beth hit us, I would canceled all off base exercises save one -- a six man cadet team and their drill out in the bush. we are missing three and the sergeant. the cadets are in their eighth week of the cycle, nobody here knows much about them, up to and including their names. but the sergeant...
it is not west, is it? tell me it is not west.
ah, christ
you knew sergeant west?
he was our drill here. man's older than sand.
a few years ago, the army picked our good buddy as their go to non-com to trot out to the press to talk about the kinder, gentler military. he even did the standard video greeting played to all incoming basic cadets across the country.
well, he is a good soldier.
i did not mean that as a compliment.
sergeant west's served for twenty- three years. he is the public face of the modern army.
and you notice I am not in the army anymore.
the exercise was one of his section eight "private sessions". left around 2100 yesterday and were scheduled for pick up at 0630 this morning.
and the problem is you only got three.
no, the problem is one's dead, one's got a bullet in his arm, and one will not talk. the one who will not talk was trading live fire with the dead one as we reached the pick-up.
I am assuming that is what made him the dead one?
cadet roberto r. nunez. killed right in front of me.
search parties for the others are fanning out in a ten click radius from the pickup. if they are hurt and we can get to them in time...
i called the jag corps, the two cadets we retrieved are to be flown to d.c. on a transport leaving here at 1700 --
which gives us about five hours. why did you call me?
the guy in interrogation said he would only talk to a cop.
and I am the closest thing to it, right?
tom, bottom line: i let those kids go out there. if jag shows up and i do not have any answers for them, my career is finished --
I am not going to let that happen.
got to be honest, i love what you have done with the place --
you and the colonel go back.
he got me through basic and a lot of other stuff. i owe him.
you are the tom hardy I have been reading about in the papers, right? new orleans pd fired you for taking bribes from guissepe torres.
it was for suspicion of bribery, it is really all in the wording --
wording and your friendship with the colonel aside, I am not comfortable having you involved in this.
subtlety really is not one of you finer points, is it, osborne?
three things. first -- you do not have a choice. second -- I have never taken a bribe in my life. and third -- I am still a little drunk from last night, so if i skip over the witty banter and move forward to straight hitting on you, try not to take offense. tell me about the two guys.
hurricane knocked out our mainframe, so all we have are their dogtags. cadets raymond dunbar and levi kendall --
levi? who names their kid levi --
senator jonathan kendall, of ohio.
christ... remind me to thank bill for mentioning that on the phone --
kendall junior is still in surgery, so he will not be available to answer for his name or anything else for another hour -- the cadet we are talking to first is dunbar.
he is in interrogation?
yes.
move him.
why?
because interrogation rooms look suspiciously like interrogation rooms, which does not exactly put people at ease. is he cute?
excuse me?
is dunbar cute?
that is the most unprofessional --
is he handsome, self assured, carry himself well, does he look you in the eyes or down at the floor, does he have good bones, suggesting good breeding, does he slouch or sit up straight -- these are important questions, as they reveal a great deal about this man's character so please get over yourself for two and a half seconds and tell me is he cute?
thank you. at some point in there I am going to rub my nose. when i do, go at him with everything you got.
good cop/bad cop?
something like that.
i questioned him for three hours and he did not make a sound. you do not have a badge, he will not talk to you.
ten bucks says i have him talking in under three minutes.
why not?
i asked for a policeman.
you are under military arrest, it is not going to happen. what is wrong with baseball?
it's... too slow.
well, it is a game of anticipation, that is the beauty.
i just do not like it.
what do you like then?
i do not know... i like the army.
c'mon, ray, everyone hates the army during basic. I will tell you straight, i hated it here.
you did basic here?
fifteen years ago under sergeant west. piece of work, that guy. i remember, he used to have these two silver .45's with ivory handles and if you were not quick enough, he would knock you on the head with one of them. he still carry those guns?
there is no need...
they are dead, are not they?
the colonel saw you shoot nunez, you are a murderer --
see, ray, this is what we call "good cop, bad cop". she shouts, i stand up for you, you are grateful, a bond of trust is established.
right. now, I am going to go get you another donut and you think about whether you want to talk more, okay?
okay.
baseball?
i believe somebody owes me ten dollars --
you made me look like an idiot --
oh, I am sorry, i did not know the object of the interrogation is to make you look good -- everyone knows good cop, bad cop -- by admitting it i appeared trustworthy.
you think he did it?
no --
why did you ask for a cop, ray?
I am not telling you what happened.
okay... but i would like to know about the other cadets. what they were like -- nice guys?
some.
tell me about them.
you motherfuckers have just made the worst mistake of your lives! you have chosen to join my army! this army is my mother, my father, and my little virgin sister and i will not allow anyone or anything that is not up to my standards near her pretty little virgin cooze, do you understand me -- give me a sir, yes, sir!
sir, yes, sir!
those who i deem unworthy to pass through this camp will quit, and those who refuse to quit i will kill. you ever hear of a training accident -- give me a sir, yes, sir!
sir, yes, sir!
in my time i have killed sixteen men for the good of my country, sixteen men whose entrance into this army i could not condone, as it would weaken the fabric of this nation's defense! this base suffers an average of three training accidents a year, unfortunate incidents that i will not hesitate to repeat if you cross me, understand -- give me a sir, yes, sir!
sir, yes, sir!
so forget what you have seen on sixty fucking minutes about the kinder, gentler military -- you will either succeed, quit, or die by my hand!
cadet, what is your name!
sir, dunbar, sir!
you know how to work a pistol, dunbar?
sir, yes, sir!
dunbar you are to stand here and guard this nigger for the next twenty- four hours! he is not to be given food, water, or clothes! if he so much as moves, you are to blow his nigger brains out, is that clear?
sir, yes, sir!
the rest of you, fallout for physicals!
are you saying sergeant west tried to kill you?
no, ma'am, he just wanted us to quit. making it through was kind of an honor. some of the other guys on the base told us that if you could hack section eight, command would consider you at the top of the class.
that first night with pike. i made the mistake of letting him sit down at around 0300.
tell us about the other guys, the ones west weeded out.
there were six of us...
he was sickly. had that shaking thing, whatd'yacall it, epoxy?
epilepsy.
yeah. spent half his time in the infirmary. only reason he enlisted was his father. west did not section him till last week.
and those were the guys who went on the exercise with you?
yeah. and that is all I am saying.
you smoke, ray?
this is one of those interrogation tricks, is not it? you do not give me a cigarette till i tell you more.
no, actually, i just left mine in the car and was hoping you had some.
he is not done by a longshot, i can get more out of him --
he can wait. kendall's out of surgery.
you really want to make banal chit- chat like that now?
you are right. we should sit in silence.
we are in the middle of a murder case --
best time for banal chit-chat.
what is that?
microrecorder for kendall -- did not have time to wire his room. now tell me why you joined the army or I will jab this pen through your neck.
typical army brat story. dad was noncom, mom was a nurse. there was never any real doubt of joining up.
you had a mobile of bayonets above your crib.
something like that. you?
i lost a bet.
you are kidding.
yeah. that is just the story i tell the girls to get them into bed. truth is... i do not know. the whole honor and duty thing. make a difference in the world, crap like that. did not really work out.
this is the straight hitting on me you were talking about, is not it?
the very same.
you do understand that there is absolutely no way i could ever be attracted to you, right?
i plan to grow on you.
you are off to a late start.
so noted.
you guys really got the shit kicked out of you here.
imagine what it must have been like for them out there. what do you think of dunbar?
he is telling the truth, up to a point.
what point?
something wrong?
being back here. gives me the willies.
not the happiest of memories?
remember, he is the son of a senator, so go easy. kid gloves.
got it.
you... I have seen you around the base. but you...  you are not army, are you?
coast guard, special detective detail. we feel this incident may have put the beaches of florida at risk.
that is it. you are that policeman with friends in low places. tell me, how is guissepe torres doing these days? those racketeering indictments must have really been a downer --
levi, you got about four hours before armed men show up here, put you on a plane to washington, and lock you in a very small dark room. i suggest you talk to us.
I have done nothing wrong.  I am the victim here.
but not the only victim, right?
my, my, my, how did things turn so hostile so quickly? if i did not know better, I would say you two were out to get me.
we just want --
what, "the truth"? please. there are degrees of truth, officer, always degrees. things are not what they seem.
that was kid gloves?
have no fear, osborne, we have not yet begun to fight.
but we have to question him --  thought you did not have cigarettes --
i lied. wait for it...
my father is a powerful man. over the years he is used that power to protect me, in one form or another, from certain... unpleasantries.  i am a homosexual.
senator daddy must be thrilled.
he is not, shall we say, wild about the idea. he has asked me on numerous occasions to be more discreet about my proclivities, and i have done my best to oblige him. however, in the last four weeks, i began a relationship with another cadet. what do you think of that?
i think you just blew "don't ask, do not tell" out of the fucking water.
the sergeant discovered this relationship and wanted me expelled. my father interceded, so instead, west sectioned me and made sure every other cadet knew that i was gay.
he could not kick you out so he wanted you to quit on your own.
he wanted more than that.
hurricane's due after midnight and we are still going out?
toughens us up, pike. you do not like it, quit.
maybe we should not go.
the faggot speaks.
you ever been in a hurricane, mueller?
you ever been in a hurricane, mueller?
we should tell him we are not going.
oh, yeah, "excuse me, sergeant, sir, we do not feel like going out -- we do not want to get rained on." he will kick our asses from here to cleveland.
some of you may have heard there is a hurricane coming! american soldiers do not wait for good weather -- they do not wait for a bright sunshiney day to do their duty! an american soldier learns to operate in the worst conditions and turn said conditions into an advantage against their enemy! anyone who thinks these conditions are too harsh, feel free to lay down and die, you get me?
sir, yes, sir!
lz is two clicks north of a cabin, you are to split into teams of two and work your way through your designated area blasting as many targets as you can find! each area has twenty targets, first team to take all twenty and find the cabin wins! teams are as follows -- dunbar and nunez, pike and mueller, kendall and childs!
he said what?
"you're going to die tonight, faggot". clear as day.
no one else heard it?
he whispered it in my ear.
levi, i do not know if you are familiar with investigative work, but we have this little thing called "motive" and you just gave yourself one.
you said you wanted to know what happened -- I am telling you the truth.
what happened to "degrees"?
i did not kill him --
then who did?
do not you ever point a gun at me!
I am -- I am sorry...
a target, kendall, cap a fucking target. what is wrong with you?
i thought i was going to have an attack. go into a fit and bite off my own tongue in the middle of the bayou. childs could tell i was not right.
just safety your shit and get behind me, okay? I will take care of this.
maybe i should not tell you that. maybe i should tell you i was not scared at all. but i was...  enough to almost kill him.
but you didn't.
no. poetic justice, though.
fuck, what the fuck is going on --
what do we do?
whoever it is is not shooting at us...
i do not want to go --
fine.
did -- did you --
it was the grenade you fucking idiot. look at him!
this is not our area. whose area is this --
can anybody hear me!
hey, i --  holy fuck... holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do?
we found him like this --
you killed him you fucking faggot --
we found him like this! kendall was with me the whole -- listen to me!
we got -- i do not know, we got separated
before or after the explosion?  mueller --
i do not know!
shut the fuck up, you fucking faggot, you just shut the fuck up.
hey!
what about pike?
maybe he will be there. either way, we have to go.
we finished the course and came here, then heard an explosion --  where is pike?
we do not know. west is dead.
they found him. poor fucker was practically blown in half --
poor fucker my ass...
you better watch it, faggot, I am not sure you and childs did not do him --
what about you, wandering around alone? at least we have an alibi --
what do you mean, alone?
pike and i got separated --
yeah and he does not know when --
i remember now, it was before the explosion --
oh, you remember now --
I am about two seconds away from seeing if fairies really can fly --
he would not kill anybody...
oh, bullshit, he is a fucking convict. you know how much he hated west --
i hated west, childs hated west, everyone with a goddamn brain hated west but that does not mean we killed him!
he is the only one unaccounted for.
maybe he is dead too. maybe you killed them both, mueller --
shut up.  let me see your grenades.
why?
we were each given three so whoever killed west will be missing one.
whose blood is that, jay?
west's. any kindling for afire?
what do you mean, west's?
i mean i killed him.  is not that what we all wanted?
he admitted it.
right in front of us. mueller went after him but we held him back.
the thing is, we have got a real opportunity here. you turn me in tomorrow and we are both fucked --
what are you talking about?
a gay senator's son who let his sarge get fragged on a training exercise? the press'll crucify you and your father. his career will be over and it will be your fault. but we do this different and you come out a hero.
how?
mueller. he is as bad as west and we both know it. now i can not do it, cause I am tied up, but we get the others to go along --
i do not think i want to hear this --
someone else can do the deed, it does not have to be you. maybe nunez too, he is got a tendency to follow mueller, but the rest of us can come out ahead -- the guys who took out their sergeant's killers! we will move the bodies out to the creek and say we came over the hill right as they fragged west, all we got to do is tell the story right.
nunez was chasing dunbar.
because he would shot mueller.
but you did not see it, right?
like i said, i was in the kitchen. when i came out, mueller and pike were dead, nunez and childs were hit and dunbar was gone.
why did he come back for you?
i honestly do not know. maybe to have someone to cover for him. and i wish i could, but there is no doubt in my mind he killed those men.
okay. i think that is it. he rises and walks to the door.
mr. hardy?
pike killed west, dunbar killed mueller, childs, and nunez.
who killed pike?
someone must have got a shot off. he was not exactly a moving target.
what do you think?
it is too neat.
"too neat." how long have you been an investigator?
i do not think that has anything to do with --
that means under a year. let me explain what ten years of police work has taught me -- murder is basic. there are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, and no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings; murder is shitty people doing a shitty thing to other shitty people -- it does not always make sense but it is always neat. dunbar's our guy.
i just... he came back for kendall. i do not think he is capable of murder.
everyone's capable of murder, osborne.
look, all we have got is what kendall says, and he did not actually witness any deaths except nunez. he found west, he saw mueller and pike, but just their bodies -- he did not see any crime committed.
well, I am sure if he would known this was all going to happen he would have tried harder to witness it for you --
we have already been over the terrain twice. nothing.
there was a hurricane, bill, the wind probably moved it.
habeas corpus -- you have to have a body to have a crime.
okay, then let's widen the search to include the endzone in giants stadium and the trunk of my car --
without the body we have no physical proof. we need a confession.
from dunbar? i hate to break this to you, but i do not think he is going to be all that psyched to put himself in for the death penalty.
nevertheless --
nevertheless what'? kendall will testify and that will be enough.
not for me.
you mean not enough to save you.
jag gets here in three hours. try for the confession.
hey, ray! just had a nice talk with your buddy kendall -- seems you killed three people!
that son of a bitch.
that would be my reaction too --
he is lying.
well, why did not you say so? we will just drop all your charges, then --
I am serious --
fuck "you're serious", raymond, you got exactly zero truck with us; right now we would take the word of a crackhead over yours, so if you have got something to say, say it.
did kendall tell you about the px?
he said he worked there --
no, did he tell you about it? about the business childs ran?
what business?
pills, shots, you name it, basic's a lot easier when you do not feel pain --
so childs made some side money, so what? people are dead, ray, and the only one we have to blame is you --
i did not shoot west --
yeah, we know, pike did.
why the fuck was not he in restraints?
i do not know.
tom, where are you going --
home, I am done.
what about the confession?
you want a confession? why do not you confess, bill: people are dead and you do not give a shit about it! only reason you called me is to protect your fucking job, you know this is your fault --
what the hell are you talking about --
I am talking about west! we had him, bill, we were there. you are the fucking base commander, you knew what he did to cadets and you let him go on the way he always he has --
styles could not reassign him, he is a legend --
you knew what he was capable of and you just stood by. it was just a matter of time till somebody fragged his ass, and you know what? he deserved it. there is your confession.
goddammit, hardy, you can not just leave --
watch me.
you said you owed styles and now you are going to turn your back on him?
west was a monster! fifteen years ago, i was here, i was section eight, i was pike. fuck being the knife dummy -- that thing he did, stripping pike down, making him stand outside all night? he did that every year, he did that to me. fifteen years ago, i wanted him dead, and now I am supposed to care that somebody offed him? sorry, no can do. i tried.
you did more than try. you cracked dunbar in less than three minutes, as an investigator you are phenomenal --
phenomenal at taking bribes, right?
i was starting to believe you, you know? that you were not who everyone said. i guess i was wrong --
oh, spare me the reverse psychology bullshit! this is not my "great second chance", osborne. everyone thinks I am a piece of shit cop who took money and nothing is going to change that. nobody will ever know what happens here --
but you will.
why do you care?
because it is my job. because people are dead. because of the whole honor and duty thing, make a difference in the world, crap like that.  we can do this, hardy.
i did not shoot west...
what?
dunbar... he said he did not shoot west. west was not shot, kendall said he was blown apart by a phosphorous grenade and dunbar never saw the body.
i apologize --
you saw west's body.
of course --
where?
the creek bed --
and he would been shot.
yeah --
what about the phosphorous grenade?
one went off, yeah, but it did not touch him -- i thought you knew this --
holy fuck... holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do?
we found him like this...
somebody emptied a full clip into him --
stop.
jesus, what happened?
west... he is dead.
back up.
mueller was alone in the cabin?
yeah.
pike and i got separated... then i heard gunfire. close.
so did we. why did not you come?
at least you and kendall agree on that.
what happened next?
what the fuck happened to you --
what the fuck happened to you? one minute you are next to me and the next you are gone and the sky lights up like fucking christmas --
where have you been, jay?
wandering through a hurricane trying to find this place. it is gettin' bad out there --  where is west?
yeah, right...
shut up.  west's dead.
roberto, what the fuck?
we just want to check your pack --
why?
whoever shot the sarge blew a grenade first --
blame the nigger, then, huh? someone turns up dead, you just look for the darkest face in the crowd --
you know it is not like that --
do i?
right?
yeah...
you got to untie me.  i did not do this thing, ray.
you hated west more than any of us.
maybe, but that do not make me a killer --
you are the only one missing a grenade.
which anyone coulda taken out of my gear on the chopper. were you watching your pack on the ride in?
ray, this is my life here. i am not going to pretend I am not happy west is gone, but you know i could not have done this. it is not in me.
if not you, then who?
mueller.
oh, come on --
we are sweeping our area and suddenly he is gone. couple minutes later, phosphorous grenade pops off about a third of a click away --
that is exactly what he says about you.
who you gonna trust, ray? him or your friend?
you hated west, mueller loved him --
enough to go to prison? childs' px scam, mueller was in on it --
bullshit.
look in my pack.
why?
just look. little pocket.
combat grade morphine. mueller sold it to me.
you are lying --
pull up my sleeve. right arm.
why... why did not you tell me?
becoming a morphine addict during basic am not exactly something you want to broadcast. only mueller and childs know.
that still does not mean you did not kill him.
you saw west, right? how was he killed?
full clip to the body --
from up close or far away?
his chest was hamburger --
that is close range. you go full auto on a guy from close range, you are going to be swimming in blood. look at my uniform. nothing.
way i figure it, west must have found out about their little business and was gonna bust them, so they decided to get rid of him first...
they?
mueller and childs. one of them must have taken the grenade from my pack on the chopper...
i... i do not know...
what do not you know?
this is a lot of information to be getting... i have to think --
there is no time to think, ray, we got to get out of here! you untie me, we grab the guns, get kendall and nunez, and make a run for it --
no... no, we can just wait till we get back and then tell the m.p.'s --
we wait and I am a dead man. i got a black face, a criminal record, and over a hundred other cadets who will testify how much i hated west -- my court martial will take six minutes. it is either me or them, ray, and you got to decide right now.
thank god...
what the fuck are you doing?
this place is going, mueller. we gotta move --
shut the fuck up.  he was gonna cut him loose.
we all know what you did, pike. i do not know what kind of nigger voodoo you been working in here, but --
where is your shirt, mueller?
i used it to start the fire --
still got mine on, not a speck of blood on it. not a bad trick for a murderer -- you said you burned yours?
i was freezing from the hurricane --
so you took off your shirt?
to start a fire, goddammit!  what about him, huh? maybe he offed the sarge and changed shirts, brought an extra one in his pack. y'ever think of that? go ahead, cut him loose! first chance he gets, he will waste the rest of us, that is how they work --
goddammit, ray, we gotta get out of here --
we are not going anywhere.
cadet michael mueller, i hereby place you under military arrest for the murder of sergeant nathan west --
the fuck are you talking about --
you are to be stripped of all weapons and placed under guard --
bullshit --
until we return to base, and ballistics can match your weapon to the slugs in sergeant west's body --
shut up!
a test will no doubt link you to the killing --
put it down!
tell him to shut up --
-- failure to comply with this arrest is a court martialable offense in and of itself --
pike, please --
although that will not matter much when coupled with the murder charge --
so you killed him?
i...
you too?
we can still come out of this okay. pike got free, he got a gun, he came after us. that is the story.
west was one thing, but this --
shut up, mueller.
you framed-him...
none of that matters now. we got two dead bodies and a story that explains them. you are either with us, or against us -- which is it?
you shot childs and nunez.
they would have killed us both. you want me to write a confession, I will write a confession.
you saved kendall's life --
but not pike's.
why did not you tell us all this in the first place?
would you have believed me?
where is the cabin?
do not know on a map. west told us it was there, we just found it. maybe the hurricane took it away.
raymond, for you to have any chance of coming out of this, we need to locate the other bodies and examine them to corroborate your testimony. otherwise this is just another story --
mr. hardy, i joined the army for college money. i did not ask for any of this -- i tried to do the right thing out there and people got killed. you say finding those bodies'll help me, then go find them. i do not want to die.
talk it through: childs, mueller, and nunez know they are going out on the regular tuesday night drill, hurricane or no hurricane, so they plan it: kill west, pin it on pike.
and they are smart about it. they know when you commit a crime you know is going to be investigated, you need a fall guy and for that to work, you have to have a witness.
dunbar.
exactly, someone who is not involved, who is word can not be questioned. you only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe, so when the time comes, they have totally bought into your version of events.
they believe the innocent are guilty and the guilty are innocent.
and if they are asked, that is what they will tell the, world.
so it is a good plan but it goes wrong; mueller flips out and shoots their fall guy, which means they have to bring dunbar and kendall into the cover story --
kendall maybe would have agreed, but the hurricane buttfucks the cabin --
buttfucks the cabin?
and all hell breaks loose. a lot of good guys shoot a lot of bad guys and whiz, bang, zoom, happy ending.
so why, after dunbar drags kendall out from under a house, does the senator's son try and get us to put his savior in the gas chamber?
that bugs you too?
little bit.
let's go talk to bill...
what i said before --
was dead right. you think dunbar's on the level?
yeah.
does osborne agree?
you want kendall, do not you?
he tried to burn dunbar to us. you do not do that if you are not involved.
you both know if you do this, if you go after a senator's son and you are wrong... it is not just me in the hot seat anymore.
we know.
I am giving you a chance to walk away.
pike never confessed.
we have been making progress, i see.
running out of time, are we? tick- tock, tick-tock, how long till your witnesses fly the coop?
fifty minutes.
not much time to solve the crime. tell me, detective, how did it feel taking blood money from guissepe torres? did it weigh on your conscience or did you just not think about it?
you tried to pin three stone murders on dunbar --
how many murders did you cover up? one? five? maybe an even ten.
can i go to jail for punching a guy who is been shot?
epileptic attacks are murder on your system. rattle your internal organs like a paint mixer.
my heart weeps.
pike never confessed.
no, but it got you interested, did not it? got you to dig. inspired ray to tell you terribly sordid tales about drugs and creek beds and dead little sergeants who stuck their noses where they did not belong.
is it the truth?
there is that word again.  as i told you, i was not in the room when everyone started shooting.
dunbar says you were.
then he is mistaken. you know, i really do not think my father would approve of this line of questioning --
why did you tell us he shot everybody, levi? you put him in for three murders, the man saved your life --
so i should stay silent about his misdeeds? the guns went off, i ran in, childs shot me, pike and mueller were dead, and dunbar was running out the door with the smoking gun --
dunbar was running out the door? ohhhhhh... see that is where i was confused, because i thought you said nunez was running out the door.
no. i said dunbar.
huh. you know, i really thought you said nunez. i thought you said "dunbar was gone," my fault, i got to check the tape on that.  oh, yeah we taped the last interview. this one too. cause it would be a real break for us to catch you in a lie.
i believe your next line is "what are you trying to hide?"
well?
sorry to disappoint. I am on painkillers for the injury -- they cloud the mind. you are right, it was nunez. any more questions?
dunbar will testify that you were.
then we will leave it up to the courts -- his word against mine. what does his father do again? steelworker?  does not matter, I am sure justice will be served. in any case, my father will definitely want to talk to you about all these questions, these accusations on his son. he is quite protective.
we are fucked, i know --
they got their stories straight.
what?
what kendall said -- "the type of guys you do not feel comfortable going to sleep around." that is what dunbar said about childs to the letter.
are you sure?
positive. hardy, they planned this.
something funny, levi?
i was just thinking of what is going to happen to your careers when my father gets through with you.
why do not you talk to levi off the record for a second?
good idea.
you and dunbar got your stories straight. little details, little inconsistencies, designed to bounce us back from one of you to the other, asking questions, killing time, until the transport arrives and whisks you away to where senator daddy can protect you. you think you are just going to slide out of this? you are an accessory to murder, levi, you are going to jail --
you can not threaten me --
jail if he is lucky, the gas chamber if he is not --
i did not do anything --
it does not matter, levi. we are going to find those bodies and when we do, I am going to make sure one of them has a bullet in them that matches your weapon --
what?
that is a fantastic idea --
see, i just take your gun to the morgue and fire it into one of their skulls; then i call every newspaper in the country with the story about how senator kendall's gay son went nuts on a training mission --
it will not work --
it will and you know why? because you are not a person anymore, you are a cadet in the united states army; you have no identity, no miranda warning, and no rights. so I am going to throw you to the wolves, and unlike you, I am going to get away with it, because you are pissing me off!
enjoy your flight to washington --
wait --
what.
dunbar's telling the truth.
wrong answer --
we did get our stories straight, but not because we killed anyone.  it was because i threatened him.
why?
because of what i saw.  who really killed west.
who, levi --
childs.
how do you know?
because i was standing next to him.
i told him what had really happened to west. told him to keep quiet about it or I would destroy him. because if it came out that i was involved with the whole px scam, my father would be finished.
i scared dunbar into silence. he is been trying to cover for me the whole time. we got here, you came to see me... i did not know if i could trust him with that kind of secret --
so you framed him. the same way childs was going to frame pike.
what happened with nunez?
he came after us. and i told dunbar he had to kill him...
or you, levi? when is it finally going to come out that you were the one who killed him?
i did not --
but you can not prove it! you can not prove anything until we find the bodies!
you lied to us, levi, you are going to the gas chamber unless you tell us where to find them!
i do not know --
where are they!
maybe --
maybe what --
maybe he...
i pushed him too hard.
you could not have known --
yeah, i could've. should've.
you wanted to get the truth.
no, i didn't. i wanted to humiliate him. for what he did to dunbar. for fucking over the little guy.
you mean the falsely accused?
you wanted to break him.
yeah.
so did i.
it is over. time of death was 4:42. jag's been notified and i called the senator myself. my report will reflect that his medical condition made this unavoidable... you two had no culpability in the matter.
that is horseshit and you know it.
maybe. but it is my fault and I will carry it.
you think you could explain all this to me?
i would not know where to start.  i guess it was about one man framing another. he thought if the other guy got blamed, people would over look his own wrong doings.
what happens to dunbar now?
gets on his plane in ten minutes, which means you two are done. you will understand if i do not walk you out.
they are taking your command, are not they?
the senator...
I am sorry, bill.
do not be. I am not cut out to deal with the west's of the world.
you are a good soldier, bill.
i thought you said that was not a compliment.
so what now?
now i go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
think it will work?
nah.
you know, you never told me why you left the army.
it dawned on me one day that we were supposed to be a nation founded on the principle of questioning authority... and all i did here was follow orders. it did not add up. plus, i got kicked out.
for what?
that is going to stay my secret.
we were close to something with kendall.
maybe... maybe we were nowhere near. sometimes mysteries stay mysteries.  i have not by any chance grown on you, have i?
no.
good, just making sure.
sign here and here.  hey, am not you the folks workin' on that whole hulabaloo from last night?
yeah.
terrible tragedy. one of those section eight boys worked in here. pike. heard he got out okay.
funny. i swear i saw them bring him and the smaller guy in this morning.
no, no that was cadet dunbar --
you mean ray dunbar? well, that am not right.
so?
ma'am, ray dunbar's black.
four --
get in.
we are not finished yet --
you wanna bet?
we got maybe three minutes till they break it down.
right back where we started.
you kept kendall alive to corroborate your story and he did it all they way up to the end. you even gave him his own motive in case we decided to burn him, too.
can not do that now, though, can you?
is that what i did, now? and of course, you can prove all of it.
we can prove that you are not ray dunbar. impersonating a fellow cadet is a court-martial in and of itself --
did i ever claim i was raymond dunbar? was i ever told to state my name rank and serial number for the record? no. you assumed who i was, because i was wearing this uniform. do not believe me?
we do not need the tapes --
oh, you don't? what else do you have on me? you have not found any bodies yet, have you?
we have found all of them.
ohhhh, i do not think so...
how do you know that?
just a guess. maybe they are not where they are supposed to be. maybe somebody moved them. habeas corpus -- no bodies, no crime, and nunez still plays as self defense. face it detectives... you have nothing.
not true, cadet, I have got a gun --
jesus!
hardy, what are you doing --
is not this how your story goes?
we can tie you to the chair if it will work better for you --
hardy, for chrissakes --
where is west's body?
he -- he made me do it --
do what?
hunting -- we had to hunt him --
i guess nunez was not dead after all. he came after us with a vengeance.  you know the rest.
and the bodies?
you will not find them. will not find west, either. he is too good.
no bodies, no west...
no death certificates. no crime.
we need to talk --
seven.
what?
seven guys. what was it you said? you were "just starting to believe i was not the guy people said".
this is not the time --
this is the perfect time. you know what makes a good detective? the number of confessions they get. you are a good detective, osborne. so now you get mine.
what if i do not want it?
tough.
that is not true.
there are degrees of truth, officer. always degrees.
you are a good man, hardy.
really.
far as I am concerned, whatever you did in the past can stay in the past.
west?
nobody saw. but i do not think so.
do i have a choice in this?
yeah. i can wait till you are off the base and do it myself.
it was so good, i actually forgot you are one of the bigger dogs now. the base commander. the one in control. you could not let him testify, could you?
what are you talking about?
if you let him testify then it would have all come out. west was supposed to take care of it out there, shut nunez up and then disappear. but it got messy and people got killed. so you called your old pal tom hardy, figuring if worse came to worse, he would cover for you.
you are drunk --
I am not going to cover for you, bill. not for this.
stay where you are.
or what? you have gone round the bend --
west had a partner. someone who knew how to get things done.
what i can not understand is why you signed these. if you would just let west take care of the paperwork, no one would have known, but you got careless. so when pike finally told the truth you had to get rid of him, too.
that is preposterous --
toxicology report came back. kendall's attack was caused by a drug known as anephadrine, maybe you have heard of it. it is for asthmatics. if an epileptic takes enough, it kills them. i checked with the nurses at the hospital -- you are the only other person who visited kendall.
i wanted to see if he was okay --
you poisoned him, bill. you heard our interrogation, you knew he was ready to crack, so you killed him, just like pike.
I am not even going to dignify that --
no! you will stand there and you will listen! what happened to you, bill? you were the one who joined up to do good in the world. you were the one who believed in it --
you want to get into a finger pointing contest about character? the army kicked you out for drugs, the cops fired you for taking bribes from a mobster, and you think you can stand there and lecture me on codes of conduct? there is only one criminal standing in this room and it is you.
not for long.
no more witnesses. west's a ghost. but it does not matter because we have your signature, the hospital log, and kendall's toxicology report. and that will be enough.
you are crazy --
you can not duck this, bill. i may have done every goddamn thing in my life wrong but i will not let this happen.
for the last time, i have no idea what you are talking about --
get your hands away from the desk!
what are you doing out here?
leaving without saying goodbye. what are you gonna do?
go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
think it will work?
nah.
want company?
a word of advice about women -- that first hour or so after they kill their boss? probably not the best time to hit on them.
i should probably write that down.
yeah.
your phone number?
in case you need me to testify about the shooting. they will clear you.
he was your friend.
yeah. but he was a lot of other things, too. thanks.
what the fuck is going on?
your weapons, sergeant.
you never told me why you got kicked out of...
the army kicked you out for drugs...
i promised them I would ask you where west and the others are...
washout rejects, guys he said were "dumbfucks too stupid to know they dead"...
he is telling the truth up to a point...
