nice suit.  and today you are?
nightwing.  scourge of darkest evil.
this is all about fashion for you, is not it?
it is the gear.  chicks love the gear.
... a giant drilling truck burrowing under the city ...
mr. freeze.
the batcomputer tracks him heading for the gotham museum.
the new antiquities exhibit.  the second sun of the sudan.
of course.  he is going to steal the giant white diamond.
no, robin.  he is going to jail.
you were a great scientist once. do not squander your genius on evil.
i hate being lectured.
after you have frozen, your icy tomb will plummet back to gotham.
freeze, you are mad.  this capsule will slaughter thousands.
i was just hanging around.
i thought you were going to stay in the museum and round up the thugs.
how about, nice to see you?  glad you are here to save my life.
watch the first step.
surf's up.
what do we have here?  a lovely new supply of venom.  I will just take this to my laboratory for further study.
what exactly are you working on in there?  what are those screams?
you have to tell me what you are doing with my venom.
you must show me your secrets, blossom, before i show you mine.
...our original sponsor had no stomach for military applications. he cut the funding for our work -
our work?
without your research, i could never have come this far.  join me.  the two of us, entwined, side by side...
join you?  I have spent my life trying to protect plants from extinction and now you corrupt my research into some maniacal scheme for world domination. when i get through you will not be able to get a job teaching high school chemistry, do you hear me, you psycho?
well, i can respect your opinion.
that is got to hurt.
somehow he survived.  but the cryoslution mutated his body.
what happened to his wife?
presumed dead.  no one knows.
he needs extreme cold to survive. his cryo-suit uses diamond enhanced lasers to keep him at zero degrees.
let me get this straight. a brilliant citizen, disfigured by a horrible accident, re-emerges as a psychotic super-villain bent on theft, revenge and destruction. you see a pattern here?
<		maybe it is something in the water.
i need the wayne diamonds.
we gonna trap ourselves a snowman?
absolutely.  just as soon as you take ten hours training in the simulator.
whoa, i made a mistake.  I am sorry. do not go all protective on me.  it will not happen again.
dick, you were reckless.  you could have been killed.
I am fine.  see.  me.  here.  alive. how are we going to work together if you are never going to trust me?
he is over-eager, impulsive.  i can not trust him not to get hurt.
perhaps the truth is you do not really trust anyone.
do not tell me you are on his side. again.
despite all your talents, you are still a novice in the ways of family. dick follows the same ends as you but gets there by his own course.  you must learn to trust him.  for that is the nature of family.
dr. isley?  pamela?  you look great. especially for a dead woman.
hello, jason.  i think I have had a change of heart.
freezy, I am feeling...hot.
i find that unlikely.
okay, my hair is brittle, my skin is dry and i do not care.  I would weather blizzards to have you. you are the most perfect man I have ever known.
to be frozen.  to never change.  a life of perpetual ice-olation. there is little perfection in that.
what say we turn up the heat?
you are skating on thin ice.  my passion thaws for my bride alone.
forget your frosty femme.  these lips are wet and ready to get frostbite.
hop away little bunny.  before i cool your jets.  permanently.
i got the diamond.  quell problemo, bruce?
you left your back wide open.  freeze could have killed you.
i must have dozed off.  my sincerest apologies, sir.
no apology necessary.  that is the first time in thirty years.
please be looking for me.
I am so sorry to trouble you, but-
how long has it been, uncle alfred?
ten years.  barbara is not really me niece, sir. she is joanna clark's daughter.
of course.  alfred still keeps your mother's picture in his room.
anybody want to tell us kids in the cheap seats who joanna clark is?
joanna and i were in love in london. but when i realized our age difference was too extreme -
uncle alfred left for america.  much to my mother's dismay -
eventually she married a young physician.
al's main squeeze.  is she here?  I am about to scrape the bottom of my shoe off my tongue, right?
my parents were killed in an auto accident ten years ago.  alfred has been supporting me ever since.
you have?
secrets are a virtual prerequisite in this house, do not you think?
I am on break from-
oxbridge academy?
their new computer sciences division.  how did you know?
i recognized the accent.
you certainly will not.
oh no, those things frighten me.
well, i hope you will stay with us.
there is a lovely inn just down --
oh, but, sir.  so much goes on-
do not be silly, alfred. after all, she is family.
I am sorry, uncle, i came to tuck you in.  and...
you came to tuck me in.  that is quite a switch.  i am looking for my brother, wilfred. he is first butler to the maharajah of mirajanpore.  but mirajanpore is a floating court, it travels across india, so wilfred can be rather difficult to find.
i guess they do not have fax machines on elephants.
i have been trying to reach wilfred with no success.  as one grows older, one yearns for family.
it is good to see you again, uncle. I have missed you.
as I have missed you.  sleep well, child.
no!?
umm.  what i mean is...no plans at the moment...
but soon...
and?
can i get some help over here?
they are overly protective.  you are not going to hurt me are you, ms...
dr. pamela isley.
what can i do for you, doctor?  a research grant?  a hospital wing?
actually, i already work for you. or did.  your arboreal preservation project in south america.
we cut our support.  a conflict of ideologies.  dr. woodrue was a lunatic.
i see you knew him.
that lab was consumed by fire last week.  how did you manage to escape?
i have here a proposal showing how wayne enterprises can immediately cease all actions that toxify our environment.
forget the stars.  look here, at the earth, our mother, our womb.  she deserves our loyalty and protection. and yet you spoil her lands, poison her oceans, blacken her skies. you are killing her.
your intentions are noble, but no diesel fuel for heat.  no coolants to preserve food.  millions would die of cold and hunger alone.
acceptable losses in a battle to save the planet.
people come first, dr. isley.
tell me, billionaire, would you warm faster to my pleas if i looked more like ms. january here?
although the wayne foundation is hosting the event, sadly i will be unable to attend.  thank you all.  good day, doctor.
you think freeze will take the bait?
he will be here.
you do not have two million.  three million - -
I will borrow it from you.  four million - -
let me guess, plant girl? vine lady? ms. moss?
listen, captain cold, the suit, maybe, even though silver went out in the 70's.  but those boots are unforgivable. what is it with men?
I would love to stand here all day and exchange fashion tips but I am kind of pressed for time.  so hand over the diamond, garden gal, or i turn you into mulch.
pull back.  you can not make the jump.
i can make it.
congratulations on your apprehension of mr. freeze.  batman monopolized the evening news.
thanks.
is there something wrong, sir?
alfred, am i pigheaded?  is it always my way or the highway?
why, yes, actually.  death and chance stole your parents.  but rather than become a victim, you have done everything in your power to control the fates.  for what is batman if not an effort to master the chaos that sweeps our world, an attempt to control death itself.
but i can not can i?
no, my boy.  I am afraid none of us can.
you are not even listening to me.
what?  I am sorry.  you were saying...
we have been going out over a year now and...okay, here goes.  bruce, i want to spend my life with you.
julie, I am not the marrying kind. there are things about me you would not understand.
i know you are a dedicated bachelor. that you have had a your wild nights.
wild does not exactly cover it.
but there is nothing you have done under the cover of darkness i could not learn to understand.
i would not bet on that.
I am betting on you.  you will make someone a good husband one day. but i can not wait around forever. do not answer now.  just think it over.  here's some food for thought.
who is ivy?
what?
you just called me ivy.  who is ivy?
i wish i knew.
i could have made it, you know.  i did not need your help.
whatever you say, lady.  it is all in a day's work for me.
this is to replace the bike i lost. I will get you the rest.
keep it.
of course, dick grayson, ward of the fabulously wealthy bruce wayne. why would you need a few hundred dollars?
hey, what is your problem?
i guess, the truth is I am just not comfortable with the idle rich.  even when they try to act like heroes.
i started racing after my parents died.  there was something about the speed, the danger, that took me out of myself, that made the hurt go away.  you would not understand.
you would be surprised.
street racing is not exactly an acceptable major at oxbridge.  they kicked me out.  it does not matter. I have won enough money to do what I have always dreamed.
just do not tell me you are hoping to run away and join the circus.
alfred has supported me my whole life.  now I am going to pay him back. I am going to liberate him from his dismal life of servitude.
what are you talking about?
servants, masters, it is  ridiculous. alfred is the sweetest, most noble man alive and he is subjugated all his life and dreams to someone else.
alfred and bruce are like family.
paying someone to prepare your meals and do your laundry and clean your dishes, you call that family?
alfred's happy here.
happy.  you honestly do not know, do you? you can not even see what is in front of your own eyes.
he is dying.  and i can not deal with it.
but he is never said a word-
you know alfred.  he would never say anything.  but i can tell.  until you came along, alfred was the only family i ever had.  without him, i do not know how i would have survived.  he saved my life, dick.  and I have never told him.
talk to him, bruce.  there is nothing worse than losing someone without telling them how you feel.
I am scared, dick.  maybe for the first time in my life.  I am really scared.
impressive
well, i, my most unabominable snowman, have been impressed by you. in fact i propose a pairing.  so I am here to set you free.
an enticing offer.  but what does the lady want in return?
let's cool it for now.  there is someone i want you to meet.
i love that belt.  what are you, about a fifty big and tall?
i always go a size smaller.  makes me look slimmer.
no gun.  how disarming.
i wonder if i can get a cell with a view of the gardens?
dear daisy, do not despair.
i am as well as can be expected.
alfred, i know you are sick -- i can get you the best doctors.
I have seen the best doctors--! a gentleman does not discuss his health.  it is not civilized.  i hope I have taught you at least that much, young man.
have you ever regretted your life working here, alfred?
attending to heroes?  no sir.  my only regret is that i was never able to be out there with you.
not all heroes wear masks.
alfred, if I have never told you...i just want to say...
yes?
my reserves are exhausted.  i must have the gems that power my suit.
you are looking unseasonably hot. let's go inside and grab your rocks.
in my weakened state i am no match for the bat and the bird.
you leave batman and robin to me.
trust me.  vegetable magnetism.
fine.  while i retrieve my diamonds, you and meatloaf will bring my wife to your lair.  she is frozen in -
hold it.  you never said anything about a wife, frozen or otherwise-
you will rescue my wife
ok, ok.  ms. ivy to the rescue.  now where do i find your brittle bride?
she is definitely part of this.  it is weird, for a while ivy was all i could think about.  but then...
i know.  the feeling just vanished.
i can not believe we were fighting over a  bad guy.
bad, yes.  guy, no.  this is one majorly beautiful evil person.
I am totally over her.  positively.
me too.  great stems, though.
umm-hmmmm.
definitely.
how did you...?
open sesame...chicken.
she is still alive.  he is adapted his freezing technology to reverse mcgregor's syndrome.  he is even found a cure for the early stages of the disease.
can he save her?
no.  her case is too advanced.  but maybe, someday, with more research-
no beauty...
just the beast.
give it up.  if you threw yourself-
at you?  polly want a kiss?
remember the victim at the airport. toxins introduced through the mouth.
what are you talking about?
why is she so desperate to kiss us? I am betting her lips are poison.
a poison kiss?  you have some real issues with women, you know that?  you just could not stand that she was about to kiss me.  could not stand that something might be mine and not yours.  could you?!
make yourself right at home.
where is my wife?
there was nothing i could do.  batman deactivated her.  she is dead.
you lie!
their bones will turn to ice.  their blood will freeze in my hands.
kill them.  of course.  but why stop there?  why should only batman and robin die while the society that created them goes unpunished?
yes.  i shall replay the world for sentencing me to a life without the warmth of human comfort.  i will blanket the city in endless winter. first gotham and then the world.
just what i had in mind.  everything dead on earth except us.  a chance for mother nature to start again.  plants and flowers are the oldest species on the planet yet they are defenseless against man.  sorry hon, this is for science.  behold the dawn of a new age.
i have created a race of plants with the strength of the deadliest animals.  once you have frozen mankind, my mutants will overrun the globe.  the earth will become a brave new world of only plants. and we shall rule them.  for we will be the only two people left in the world.
adam and evil.
you will distract the bat and bird while i prepare to freeze gotham.
can not we just ice them along with the rest of the citizenry?
that is far too merciful.  batman will watch his beloved gotham perish, then i will kill him.
as a team, the duncely duo protect each other.  but the robin is young. impetuous.  if i could get him alone-
one kiss and you could lift the mask from his lifeless face.  their secret identities would be revealed.  but how best to bait a brid?
the way to a boy's heart is through his ego.  what strapping young hero could resist his very own...signal?
inspired, ms. ivy.
I am hungry.  i think I will have poultry.
I have spent my whole life trying to beat back death.  what good are all my heroics now if i can not save you?
everyone dies, master bruce.  there is no defeat in that.  victory comes in fighting for what we know is right while we still live.
i love you, old man.
remember this.  and remember it always.  I am proud of you.  and i love you too, son.
mcgregor's syndrome.  that is what freeze's wife had.
yes.  but alfred's condition is less severe.  freeze's research says he cured a case like alfred's.  it just does not say how.
i checked the medical database.  no one else is even close.
I am late for the dedication.  then i go after freeze and ivy.  alone.
like hell you do.
dick, do not push me right now.
or what?  no one can capture ivy but the big bad bat.  crap!  you just want her for yourself.  do not you?  answer me, damn it!
yes!  yes, i want her so badly i can taste it.  that is the whole point. look at us.  orphans.  isolated. obsessed to the exclusion of life, love, family.  we are perfect targets. she is done something to us, got us fighting over her somehow.
hail the all-knowing bruce wayne. here's what i know, she loves me, not you and it is driving you crazy. it is why you stopped us from kissing. because if you can not have her, nobody can.
she is clouded your mind.  you are not thinking straight.
oh but i am.  for the first time in a long time.  I am through living in your shadow.  all that ends right now.
I am sorry.  i was too late.
too late for what, dear child?
i came to give you your freedom, a chance to live the life you choose. the same gift you gave me.
i have been part of the greatest adventure ever know.  i have found purpose here, and the family i could never have.
find my brother wilfred.  give him this.  i have duties he must fulfill in my stead.  only family can be trusted.
what is it?
it is the hearts of two good men whom i have had the honor of calling son.  take it, child.  but i implore you, never open it.  you look so like your mother.
dr. isley.  it was like i could feel you in the room.  you're...enchanting. gorgeous.  the most beautiful woman I have ever seen.  if you're..um... free...this evening.
bruce?  what are you doing?
make a choice, bruce.  her or me.
well...um...her.
you were right.  i get it.  you are not the marrying kind.  you have made your point.  goodbye bruce wayne.
physical perfection, charm and wealth tossed over for a dowdy spinster. how do you explain your behavior?
i can't.  but perhaps tonight, over dinner...i've just had an opening.
maybe your witless playboy persona works on every bimbo du jour but i am not the least bit titillated by your attentions.  so back off or I will have you in court quicker than you can spell sexual harassment.  got me?
alfred, old friend, i could use your help right now.
right here, sir.
it is good to see you.
what seems to be the problem?
women.
that, sir, does not compute.
first ivy had an intoxicating effect on both dick and me.  tonight my feelings spread to someone else.
specify, please.
pamela isley.  i was so attracted to her i could not reason clearly.  i still can't.  she used to work for wayne enterprises.  find a file.
coming on line now, sir.
advanced botany.  dna splicing. recombinant animal plant patterns. pheromone extractions.
pheromones?
glandular secretions from animals. scents that create powerful emotions.  fear.  rage...
passion.  of course.  find the photo of ivy after the flower ball.
what is it?
it appears, sir, that someone has stolen the batsignal.
that is no batlight, it is a birdcall.
her name is pamela isley.  i saw her talking to gordon.  she must have stolen his keys, altered the signal-
and she did it all for me.  for love.
she is infected us with some kind of pheromone extract-
is that it, bruce?  I am under some magic spell?
she wants to kill you.
you would say anything to keep me away from her.  to keep her for yourself.
you once said to me that being part of a team means trusting your partner.  that sometimes counting on someone else is the only way to win.  do you remember?
uncle alfred?
in spirit only, I am afraid.
the boys need help.
I am glad you came.  i can not breathe without you.
i want us to be together.  but i need to know you are serious about turning over a new leaf.  i need a sign.
how about dangerous curves?
of trust. tell me your plan.
kiss me and I will tell you.
tell me and I will kiss you.
freeze has turned the new telescope into a freezing gun.  he is about to turn gotham into an ice cube.
I have got to stop him.
one kiss, my love.  for luck.
bad luck, I am afraid.  it is time to die, little bird.
what do you mean?
you should have heeded your pointy- eared pal.  these lips can be murder.
then you never loved me?
love you?  i loathe your bipedal arrogance, your animal superiority. my only joy is knowing that even now my poison kiss is sucking the life from your ape-like face.
you are too late.  say bye-bye birdie.
sorry to disappoint you.  but rubber lips are immune to your charms.
we gotta get those locks changed.
she knows who we are.
i guess we will just have to kill her.
kill her later.  we have got work to do.
alpha.  got it.  what the hell is attack plan alpha?
divide and conquer.
youwsa!  nothing but air.
batgirl, baatgirl, baatgirl.
mr. bane, I will finish off the city. you, as they say in showbiz, are on.  take the boys and kill the kids. but bring me the bat.
we have eleven minutes to stop freeze and thaw the city.
this is easy.
crimefighter's rule number one: never say that.
why?
crimefighter's rule number two.
I am afraid to ask.
be ready for anything.
pow!  what!  kazow!
what exactly are you doing?
i do not know.  it just feels right.
no sign of the snowman.
maybe he melted.
if we could relay the sunlight-
from the other side of the equator-
it will take the satellites about a minute to re-align, but...damn!
damn?  damn is not good.
those targeting mirrors are frozen. the sun beam will not work.
you are loosing your cool
i think not.  there'll be no hot time in this old town tonight.  you will get a charge out of this.
winded, old timer?
do not make me kill you in front of the girl.
go on, kill me too.  just as you killed my wife.
i did not kill your wife.
prepare for a bitter harvest. winter has come at last.
not good.
alfred, are you...?
rather disappointed at how poorly i taught you proper housekeeping.  and quite well, it seems.  thanks to you, son.  thanks to you all.
one question.  when batgirl and i rolled off the telescope, how come you did not try and save us? it was the first time i fell and you were not there to catch me.
i knew you could handle it.
sometimes counting on someone else is the only way to win.
hey, I am the one who kicked ivy's botanical butt.  personally.  me.  i did.
you are going back to school.
