i see from your questionnaire that you do not have any immediate next of kin?
not that I am in contact with.
nobody to call in case of an emergency?
no --  does that mean i can not be a donor?
it depends.  we came up with some unusual results on your blood test.
your blood has a very rare phenotype, one that is quite valuable to people like us.
us?  what are you talking about?
you got something in mind, blade?
ultra-rapid detox.  they use it on heroin addicts, make 'em go cold-turkey in one night.
gonna try and od whistler on a retroviral cure.
i do not know about this, man --
how do you feel?
like a fucking heifer took a dump in my mouth.
you came back for me.
did you think i wouldn't?
took you long enough.
let's just hope you have kicked the thirst for good.  I will be watching you close. you start to back-slide --
you put a bullet in my brain.  would not expect anything else.
tell me something, skid --
scud.
whatever --  what did you do to the charger?
the pimp-mobile?  just made a few after market modifications.  nitrous-oxide injection system, forged aluminum pistons and crankshaft, higher flowing fuel pump.
gave it a more aggressive exhaust profile ramping.
fuck yeah.  whole package'll crank this betty up another three-hundred horsepower.
and you will burn the damn thing out before your next fucking oil change.
where did you dig up this shit-bird anyway?
look, what is your problem?
hey, you think i do not know what is at stake here?  we practically compromised our whole operation to save your puckered old ass!  and for what?
our operation?!  our operation?!  i built this operation, you fucking turd stain.
motion sensors.  looks like zone three.
human?
this whole deal's giving me a serious case of the butt-willies.
look, kid, they obviously found your base of operations.  if it was a trap, why flip their dicks by announcing themselves?
i agree.  we play along for now, we might wind up learning something about how their world ticks.
either that or feeding the worms.
what?
they tell bedtime stories about you. blade the big, bad boogie-man.  frankly, I am disappointed.  that you were willing to come along so easily, i mean.  without any assurances.
it has been said, you may have enemies whom you hate, but not enemies whom you despise.  be proud of your enemy: then his success shall be yours, too.  in that regard, i should thank you.
for what?
why?
survival.
his name is jared nomak.
thiavolos, as we used to say in greece. the devil.  pure thirst.  nothing more. he was born a vampire, but he is an anomaly.  like you.  unlike the rest of us, however, he feeds on not just humans, but vampires as well.
seems like he is doing me a favor, then.
you are missing the point.  their vampire victims do not die.  they turn.  they become carriers.  if the reapers continue unchecked, there could be thousands of them before the month is over.  do the math.
you want me to hunt them for you.
not alone.
two years.
then they were not created to go after your "patient zero".
no.  they have been training to hunt you.
what do you think?
sounds like a plan.
what do you really think?
these guys are shitting bricks cause they are no longer on the top of the food chain.  they are going to fuck us the first chance they get.
so you are going to do this?
keep your friends close and your enemies closer.  is not that how the saying goes?
you have been training two years to take me out.  here i am, the big, bad vampire hunter.  so do it.
what the hell are you doing, blade?
we are going to be working as a unit, you people will be taking orders from me.  so let's get it over with.  I will give you a free shot, reinhardt.
hey, hey!  the fuck you doing?!
getting your attention, paco.
well you have got it, warmblood.  now what the fuck are you going to do with it?
where to first?
the house of pain.
he is right.  they will smell that you are human.  stay here, watch our backs.
i do not like it.
I am not giving you a choice, old man.
this is our world you are entering.  you may see things -- feeding.  just remember why you are here.
i have not forgotten.
what is it with you people and pain?
we need it.  sensations are addictive and pain cuts the deepest.  tattoos, piercings, tribal scarring -- because we regenerate, none of it is permanent.  so we have to take it to the next level. to remind us we are alive.
what was that?
nothing.
you are hurt.
I will heal.
what about nomak?
he escaped.  you did not tell me they were immune to silver and garlic.
i did not know.
how long since he was bitten?
minutes.
i thought you were supposed to be watching our backs.
ran into a little reaper trouble myself.
oh yeah?  like how little?  in case you had not noticed, we lost two men while you were out farting around.
you need to ratchet those 'nads of yours down a few notches, paco.
listen, hillbilly, you are a cunt-hair away from cowboy heaven.
am not no thing but a chicken wing, buttercup.
where were you, whistler?
I will show you.
yes?
they have made contact with the reapers.
any casualties?
two so far.
an inevitability, i suppose.  nyssa was not among them, i trust.
no.  this is a dangerous game, you are playing, damaskinos.
any game worthy of being played is.  one must be patient.  in this way, i have outlived my enemies.  all of them.
you worry too much, stevens.  i have assurance from our friend inside that events are unfolding as scripted.
as scripted?  you have already lost two of your own.  how many more are you willing to sacrifice?
recognize him?
from the surveillance footage in the bloodbank.  he was one of the guard's nomak attacked.
which means he turned about seventy-two hours ago.
right.  so why is he dying?  he does not appear to have any broken bones, no entry wounds of any kind -- what is killing him?
time.
no hemoglobin left. their metabolisms are too fast.  they burn out.  that is why they are having to feed so often.  their systems are self destructing.
if that is true, what about nomak?  he is been alive longer than the others.
nomak's different.  he is the carrier.  there is something driving him beyond the thirst.  something we are missing.
I have never seen anything like this.  the reapers are as different from us as we are from you.  it is almost as if the virus is re-wiring their bodies, creating new, parasitic organs which consume the old ones.
like cancer with a purpose.
exactly.  look at the digestive system. it is been drastically simplified.  super charged.  and this --
and so will we.
look, i care about the humans who are dying, not you, got it?
spare me the race card, oj.  we are not going out into the sun.  it is too risky.
you do not have a choice.  you are just going to have to protect yourselves as best you can.
you ask me, you and miss muffet are getting a mite too cozy for my taste.
i would not worry about it.
i am worrying.  seems to me, you are starting to get confused as to which side of the line you are standing on.
pretty hollow words coming from a man who spent the last year running with the enemy.
what the hell is that supposed to mean?
it means I am starting to wonder if the vampires still have their hooks in you. you have been acting strange ever since i gave you the cure.  reckless, quick to anger --  you said it yourself, whistler.  those vampires knew our defense system backwards and forwards.  where did they get their intel?
he is right about one thing.  we do have to survive.
you do not have to hunt to do it.
really?  what are we supposed to do, then?  starve ourselves because we fee on others in order to live?  what about that scumbag you just let off the hook? a nothing.  a drug-dealer.  how do you justify saving people like that?
the hell are you fiddling with there?
tweaked the phosphor rod, modified the collimated beam, wanna concentrate the light, get something like a uv laser going.
you are wasting your time, already been tried.
yeah, but you did not have the scudster working on it, did you?
nope.  back then we did not.
so how long have you known blade, anyway?
going on twenty years now.
blade does not talk about the old days much.
blade does not talk about anything much.  what about you, though?
pretty.
i was backpacking.  hooked up with these two chicks who were off to see the burning man festival.  we were gonna take "e", have ourselves a little freeball out in the desert.  you know the riff, "dear penthouse, i never thought this would happen to me, but --"
what about you?  you are not coming?
after last night?  dude, I am a lover, not a fighter.
eau de suckhead.  tasty.
we will split into three units.  first team that makes contact wins the prize. try to maintain radio silence from here on out.
we want to attract them, not scare them off.
yeah, but you fangs can see in the dark. what am i supposed to do?
must be hundreds of these skeletons here.
so?
so i think you people may have underestimated how many reapers you are dealing with.
what the fuck you doing?
am not nobody here but you and me, chicken wing.  I would say this is as good a time as any to settle up.
blade.  we have got six reapers.  they are all dead.
fry 'em.
blade.
save it.  i do not want to hear your words.  let's do this now!!!
each day is a little life.
what?
"each day is a little life.  every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death."
anyone else make it?
i do not think so.
thank you.
for what?
it would have been easy for you to let me die back there today, but you didn't.
i would not read too much into it.
you do not want to go there.
why?
because one of us is going to kill the other before this ends.
it does not have to be like that.  we do not have to be enemies.
get real.  i was useful to damaskinos as long as the hunt was still on.  now that it is over, all bets are off.
if that is true, then why did you save me?
why do you hate us so much?
i am a hunter.  a weapon.  it is what i do.  it is in my blood.
well it is in mine, too.  I am a pureblood.  i was not turned.  i was born this way.  just like you.  am i evil because i want to survive?  what about a wolf?  what about any predator?
you are hurting me.
pain cuts the deepest, is not that what you said?
what is going on?
he was here.  watching us.
nomak?
he wants us to know he is hunting us now.
it means "bloodbrother."
i do not understand.
your security's for shit, kid.
where the hell have you been?
just out connecting a few dots.
what is your problem, whistler?
why do not you ask your girlfriend?
i did some checking on that carter stevens character.  that familiar of theirs who claimed he was with the nih? turns out he used to work for them, but he does not anymore.
then who does he work for?
the genetic material you spliced into nomak --  where did you get it?
i should think that would be obvious at this point.
put it back in park, blade.
thought you were dead.
seems like there is a lot of that going around these days.
kiss your ass goodbye, reinhardt.
you are wasting your time, blade.  the flechette's a dud.
yeah, your little cootchie knew.
you little shit.  when did they get to you?
back when blade had me hunting down your puckered old ass.  what is up with your hair, anyway?  fucking willie nelson look-a-like?
so that is down and dirty.  got anything to say for yourself?
two things.  one, i was on to you the moment they turned you.  and two --  i switched that dud of yours back with the real one.
i would hate to think you were losing your perspective.  who do you think god favors in the web?  the spider or the fly?
nomak said something to blade in greek. athelfiki singenia ex amato.  where did he learn that?
from his father, of course.
you experimented on your own, son?
true, but thanks to you, we know his weakness.  we can keep him contained. it is just a matter of time before we hunt him down.
too bad you are out of it.
and why is that?
revenge.  that is what nomak wanted all along.  to pay back the people who created him.
come on, blade.  talk to me!
blood...
we are locked in.
are you insane?  he will kill us both!
maybe it is better that way.
how does it look?
not good.
what do you want me to do?
i want to see the sun rise.
