this is not human blood.
then what is it?
i do not know --  look at this blood smear --
the red blood cells are biconvex, which is theoretically impossible. they are hypochromic, there is virtually no hemoglobin in them.  look at the pmns, they are binucleated, they should be mononucleated.
what about the chemistry panel?
curtis, it is three in the morning. I am really not in the mood for one of your practical jokes.
it is not a joke. I have got the stiff sitting in the morgue right now -- look, just come up and see him, okay? five minutes, that is all i ask.
i thought you promised to give me some distance?
this is purely professional curiosity, karen, i swear.
five minutes, not a second more. and i do not want to hear a word about "us".
no problem.
you have not started in on the internal organs?
just the blood sample from the pericardial sac.
that is weird --
what?
he looks different now, burns are less extreme, some of these wounds have closed up --
tell me something, honestly, you ever have second thoughts about us?
sometimes --
-- but then i remember what an ass-hole you were and I am snapped back to reality.
jesus, karen, you are breaking my heart here --
whistler!
are we bringing home strays now?
she is been bitten.
you should have killed her, then.
she has not turned yet.  you can help her.
what -- ?
you have been bitten by a vampire. we have got to try and burn out the venom, just like a rattlesnake bite --
blade. once again, our interests have fallen victim to his ridiculous crusade. he must be destroyed.
you are wrong, dragonetti.
the day walker represents a unique opportunity. we would be fools to waste it by killing him.
deacon frost. you refuse to speak our language, you insult the house of erebus by using the humans' gutter-tongue, have you no respect for tradition?
why should i respect something which has outlived its purpose?
i see. and what would you have us do with this "half-breed"?
study him. unlock the secrets of his dna. he is the key we have been looking for.
he is an abomination!
the shadows suit us, frost. we have existed this way for thousands of years. who are you to challenge our ways?
someone who is sick of living off scraps. the coming age belongs to us, not the humans!  when the final war between our races comes, who do you want leading the charge?
i had to increase the dose. you are building up a resistance to the serum --
just do it, old man.
you should not be here.
I am sorry, i --
who are you people?
my name is abraham whistler.  this is blade. as for our little homunculus here --
-- he is a vampire.
you are joking --
stupidity.
maybe not. i did some checking, she is a hematologist. knowledge like that might come in handy.
it is not worth the risk. we can not trust her.
why?
because you are tainted. the venom's still inside you. you could still turn on us.
what happens then?
so what do you use, then? a stake?
some of the old wives' tales are true -- they are severely allergic to silver, various types of wood. feed them garlic and they will go into anaphylactic shock --
and you honestly expect me to believe all this?
i do not care what you believe. i saved your life once, i do not plan on making a habit of it. you want my advice, you will be out of the city by nightfall. if you are stupid enough to stay, that is your business.
i can not just leave. i have a life here, a career --
not anymore. you have seen one of them. you will not be allowed to live after that.
i can go to the police. i have blood samples back at the hospital. i can show them.
do it. you will be dead before you can file the complaint.
that is ridiculous! no one's that powerful.
get in. youre leaving.
wait.
consider it a parting gift. vampire mace -- silver nitrate, essence of garlic.
so that is it? you guys just patch me up and send me on my way?
there is one other thing. I would buy yourself a gun if i were you. if you start becoming sensitive to the daylight, if you start becoming thirsty regardless of much you have had to drink -- then i suggest you take that gun and use it on yourself. better that, than the alternative.
these archives are restricted to members of the house of erebus.
please. you and the other elders would not know what to do with these texts if your lives depended on it.  which, of course, they do.
you are wasting your time, frost. far greater scholars than you have tried to decipher these words. whatever secrets they hold have been lost.
perhaps.
how did you know?
figured they would send someone after you. thought I would wait around and see who showed up.
you used me as bait?!
it worked, did not it?
but, he could have --
he didn't. get over it.
but he is a policeman --
he is a familiar. a human who works for the vampires. see this mark?
that is a glyph, kind of like a vampire cattle brand. that means officer friendly here is someone is property. any of the other vampire's try to bleed him, they will have to answer to friendly's owner --  this glyph belongs to deacon frost. we have been tracking him for a while now --
why in god's name would anyone want to work for them?
because they are vampire wanna-bes. if they are loyal, if they prove themselves, then their masters will turn them.
and that is a good thing?
for some. live forever, never get old. the ultimate high.
what are you doing?!
preventive medicine.
you can not do this, he is human, it is murder.
it is war, now get the fuck out of the way!
look, if what you say is true, if there is a chance i could turn into one of them, then I have got no choice, do i? i have to work with you. i need to learn everything i can about them. it is the only way I will be able to find a cure for myself.
there is no cure.
you do not know that.
what are you looking at?
what do you see here?
graffiti --
look closer.
i know this place -- it is a blood bank.
owned by vampires. there is one of these in every major city, and just like domino's, they always deliver.  you telling me you are ready to walk through that door?
you let him go --  an hour ago you were ready to kill a man for less, this one did not even talk.
he will.
looks like we hit pay-dirt. this place is crawling with them.  see the valets over there? they are vampires. so is the doorman.
how can you tell?
the way they move, they way they smell --
so many of them -- i still can not believe they are real.
there are worse things than vampires out there.
like what?
like me.
what is this place?
some kind of archive --
is not this all a little high-tech? i thought vampires were more into cobwebs and coffins.
you have been watching too much tv. they have got their claws sunk into everything -- finance, real estate, politics. probably own half of downtown.
we keep in radio contact.
you have been listening in the whole time?
you think I would let him run loose without a chaperone? blade ferrets their rat-holes out, i map them. then we blow them all to kingdom come.
whistler!
go on, I will be fine!
you are hurt --
nothing that will not heal by dawn.
what am i injecting you with?
serum -- it is a human hemoglobin substitute.
what took you so long?
do not even start, old man.
why did not you tell me the truth about him?
we were not sure we could trust you.
blade's unique, you know. a one in a billion anomaly. he can withstand sunlight, garlic, even silver. but he still has the thirst.
what happens if he does not take the serum?
the thirst overcomes him, just like the others. it is not something he can control.  the problem is, time's running out. his body's starting to reject the serum. and so far, all my efforts to find a cure have ended in failure --
no offense, whistler, but you are not exactly working with state of the art equipment here. you might have missed something.
which is why you are here. we could use someone with your experience.
why do you hunt them?
habit, mostly, just like this.
i had a family once -- a wife, three daughters. then a drifter named deacon frost came calling one evening --
he killed them?
eventually. he toyed with them first. he made me choose, do you understand? which order they would die in --
how did you escape?
i didn't. he was cruel enough to let me live.  even gave me a souvenir to remember him by.
and now you are using blade to exact your revenge?
frost's bodycount keeps rising, and I am not getting any younger, am i?
i would not go in there if i were you. it is best to leave him alone when he is like this.
I will take my chances.
it is dark in here.
you get used to the darkness.
i can not close my eyes without hearing her scream.
those are not real memories. no one has that kind of recall.
i do. i remember from day one. people staring at me, sensing i was different. watching the fear grow in their eyes, knowing in their hearts i was not human.
if you are not human, then why do you bleed like us? I have seen vampire blood, you do not have it running through your veins.
just get out of here.
blade --
how do you like that? right on time.
the other elders will never let you get away with this!
going somewhere?
china town. i need more serum.  what is all this?
i made a trip to the hospital last night, borrowed some equipment.
for your miracle cure?
is he sick?
cancer.
you care about him, do not you?
we have got a good arrangement, that is all. whistler makes the weapons, i use them, the vampires die -- end of story.
my mother used to say that a cold heart is a dead heart.
your mother sounds like a hallmark greeting card.
how is it going, kam?
you are a week early.
i was in the neighborhood.
whistler says I am building up a resistance to it.
i was afraid that might happen.
maybe it is time to start exploring other alternatives.
there is only one alternative to the serum.
beautiful day, is not it?
how can you be out here?
i dabble in pharmaceuticals, medical research. we have developed a type of sun-blocker using octyl salicylate, a few others things.
it is not very effective in direct sunlight, but it is a start. the goal, of course, is to be like you, "the day-walker".
i do not buy it.
why not? the future of our race runs through your bloodstream. you have got the best of both worlds, blade. all of our strengths and none of our weaknesses.
maybe i do not see it that way.
oh, so it is back to pretending we are human again, is it? spare me the uncle tom routine. you can not keep denying what you are. you are one of us, blade. you always have been.
you are wrong.
am i? you think the humans will ever accept a half-breed like you? they can't. they are afraid of you.  the humans fear us because we are superior. they fear us because in their hearts they know their race has become obsolete.
the pause that refreshes --  care for some? smells good, does not it? pungent, with just an irrepressible hint of iron.
pass.
you sure now? i bled a newborn for this. you will not find a drink that is sweeter.
you are not going anywhere.
watch me.
any progress?
some. it is been slow --
you do not look so good.
I am just tired, that is all. we have been up all night.
for what it is worth, I am sorry.
you make it sound like I am already dead.
all right, let's start with the basics -- why do vampires need to drink blood?
their own blood can not sustain hemoglobin.
then vampirism is a genetic defect, just like hemolytic anemia?
basically you would have to re-write the victim's dna, alter it so that the dna will produce proteins capable of generating hemoglobin.
how?
with a retrovirus. it is injected into the bone marrow cells, it causes the host's dna to mutate. they have been using them to treat sickle-cell anemia.
on me, yes. on blade, I am not so sure --  the problem is, blade did not contract the vampire virus from a bite like i did. he was born with it. the irony is, i could probably cure every vampire but him.
then we are back to square one, are not we? sooner or later, the thirst always wins.
what happened to the power?
i do not know, but the back-up generator should have kicked in.
is something wrong, my friend?
you are blind --
there are other ways to see. sit.
hold out your hands.
i did not come here to get my palms read. i need something translated.
show me.
this is an old tongue, from an old world. it concerns lamagra.
who is lamagra?
the vampire god. this speaks of his return.
the day walker's blood is a disparador -- a trigger, you see? for lamagra's return. one need only consume it and the spirit of his ancestors will settle upon him.  "and the sleeper will rise from the shadows anew, cleansing the world in a tide of blood."
"the blood tide".
yes. the vampire apocalypse. it is said that all who feel its taint will succumb to the thirst.
how do i stop it?
i am tired. dawn is coming.
but i just got here --
you have been here longer than you think.
do not try to talk --
listen. you have to -- finish me off. you do not want me coming back.
no, we can treat the wounds --
whistler, i --
i know.  just be quick about it, will you? do it right.
how many of you are there?
a few thousand scattered about the globe. in the past, we have had to restrict our numbers for fear of discovery. that will not be necessary after tonight.
what happens then?
the blood tide. our long-prophesied holy war against the humans. there is a force, you see -- a spirit that exists in our blood. I have discovered a way to invoke it.
lamagra --
that is right. the answers were there all along, of course, scribbled down in the forgotten languages of my kind. waiting for someone with the patience to decipher them. my elders were foolish enough to dismiss them as wives tales. but i knew better.  imagine my surprise when blade turned out to be the key which would set that force free.
lamagra is not a physical being. he is a spirit, requiring a flesh and blood host in order to manifest himself.
you.
who better to usher in the blood tide?
there is no need for any of this. your condition can be treated. whistler and i were working on a cure when --
what makes you think we want to be cured? blood is only part of the equation. the hunt, the killing, that is what the thirst is really about.
but you use blood banks --
only as a last resort. preserved blood is inferior. there is no flavor left to it, no life.  fortunately, I have found a way around that particular obstacle.
you are a monster.
why? because we live at another species' expense? your people farm cattle and veal, do not they? fattening them up with steroids? it is called evolution, doctor. survival of the fittest.
but you -- died --
deacon brought me back.
fight him --
please --
listen to your father, jason. it is going to be a better world.
are you all right?
I have been better --
how long have we been driving?
i do not know. i woke up just before you did --
is it bad?
we get out of this alive, maybe I will take that miracle cure of yours.
it will not work on you.
what are you talking about?
blade --
you are wasting your breath, woman. he can not hear you now. it is the thirst, you see? it already has him in its grip.
how could you be a part of this?
these are my people now. I am one of them.
you do not have to be.
you do not understand. I have killed, I have hunted, and I have enjoyed it.
i wish you could see the world as i do. deacon opened my eyes. there is no turning back from that.
i do not believe that.
you will. time is on our side. sooner or later, the thirst always wins.
get out of here --
I am not leaving without you.
you do not understand. the thirst --
-- tearing me -- apart.
i know. take some of my blood.
no --
it is the only way. you know that. we will never get out of here alive if you don't.
i can not -- i will not be able to stop --
yes you will. the human side of you is stronger. i know it is.
no longer.
frost!!!
who dies first?
take him.
i was wrong about you, blade. you were never one of us. you are a traitor to your race.
get away from him!
guess you are not quite as invulnerable as you thought.
you are wrong -- a few minutes more, and my transition will be complete. even your sword will not be able to affect me then.
you do not have a few minutes, frost.
you are too human, blade.
it is because I am human that i can do this.
i never imagined I would be so happy to see the sun rise --  it is over, is not it?
for them. but for me --
