is it marsh?
yeah.
who found him?
his secretary.  joanne braslow.
she was here?
no.  she stopped by to pick up some papers.
show me.
about three hours.
cause?
not sure.  I will have everything you need tomorrow.
miss braslow -- I am district attorney john cardenas.  you arrived at what time tonight?
a little after eleven.
why did you come by?
i had some papers to pick up.
do you know who mr. marsh was with?
i assume his girlfriend.
her name?
rebecca lawson.
you would not know her address, would you?
no -- but i can get it for you.
thank you.
marsh was not alone.  we found traces of sperm on the sheets.  the toxicology report says there were high levels of cocaine in his blood.
what did he die of?
the official cause of death was a cardiac arrest.
the official cause?
that is what my report will read.
but there is more?
what are you saying, henry?  that his girlfriend fucked him to death?
yes.
what can we prove?
we know marsh had a head cold.   we found cocaine mixed with water in a nasal spray container on the nightstand.  the coke would contract the nasal membrane the same as any decongestant, but for a much shorter time.  he would keep using more and more -- never knowing what he was taking.
any prints on the nasal spray?
cocaine is the last thing a man in his condition would want.
can we put rebecca lawson at the scene?
marsh's cardiologist told me that after marsh was diagnosed with heart disease he quit smoking, quit drinking and started exercising every day.  does that sound like a guy who would start shoveling cocaine up his nose?
what did he say about miss lawson?
he can remember at least one occasion -- and the receptionist can recall two times when she accompanied marsh to the office.
so she knew about his heart?
had to.  i also interviewed three women who were in past relationships with marsh.  there is no evidence that he had anything but straight sex prior to meeting miss lawson.
what about the will?
that is the best part.  she gets it all -- everything.
i do not think that this is the time, or the place.
i just wanted to introduce myself and inform miss lawson that there will be an inquiry.
an inquiry into what?
for starters I would like to know why she left the house and did not report the death?
because he was not dead when she left, and even if he was, not reporting a natural death in a timely fashion is not a crime.
did i say it was a natural death?
you are on vacation, remember?  you are supposed to be relaxing.
i am relaxing.
this is not relaxing.
really?
really.
and i suppose you are going to show me how to relax?
if you want me to.
I am always open to learning new things.
can not it wait?
no -- it has to be done by tomorrow.
hello?... hi raymond.... what?... well, i was sort of planning on... alright... okay, goodbye.  that was sattler.  he thinks the d.a.'s going to file on rebecca lawson.  he wants me in the office tomorrow morning.
we are supposed to go to the lake.
i know.  what can i do?  he is the boss.
he could let you have your vacation.
what are they saying?
the kids at school say she humped mr. marsh to death.
hey, you know better than that.  what did i teach you to say when someone is accused of doing something?
she allegedly humped him to death?
i swear -- the both of you.  some example you set.
some example you set.
andrew marsh was a very wealthy man. a trial like this is going to put cardenas in the spot-light.
we have already got press arriving from over the country and she has not even been charged yet. cardenas wants to see her in his office tomorrow at ten.  I would like you to go with her.
I am supposed to be on vacation.
i know -- but she wants you to represent her if cardenas files.
why?
because i told her you were the best criminal attorney we have.
raymond, I am the only criminal attorney you have.
well, i guess that makes you the best.  look, frank -- she stands to inherit three million dollars.  as executors of the estate and her attorneys that could generate a lot of legal fees for us.  all I am asking you to do is talk to her.
alright, I will talk to her
she is waiting in the conference room.
are you going to represent me?
there are no charges against you. I am here to decide if I am going to represent you should that occur.  did you kill him?
do you think i did it?
i do not know.  that is why I am asking you.
you must have some feeling.  some immediate impression.  a young, attractive woman, involved with an older man who leaves her everything in his will.  and the things that went on in that house.  such wild sex.  what kind of picture does that paint?
not a very good one I am afraid.
and that is exactly what the jury will see when they look at me.  that is why i need a very good lawyer, mr. dulaney.
you are assuming the district attorney is going to file charges.
he will file.  he is an ambitious man. ambitious men build their careers on the bodies of others.
you still have not answered my question.
i think I am going to make your day.
how?
how can cardenas possibly think he can build a case against two consenting adults?
he must have something or he would not be pressing so hard.
if he files are you going to take the case?
i do not know yet.  i want to hear what she says at her statement tomorrow.
what is she like?
attractive.  bright.  distant. charming when she wants to be.
she sounds like quite a woman.
yeah -- but can she cook?
humped
yes.
i can think of worse ways to go--
i did not know that andrew was dead until mr. sattler called me at home that night.
we have a witness who saw you go into the house at four thirty.
yes.
what time did you leave?
six thirty -- and he was very much alive.
miss lawson, do you use cocaine?
i have.
did you use it the night marsh died?
no.  i have not done it in years.
did marsh use it?
no -- never.
it had to get there somehow.
it did not get there from me.
were you aware of mr. marsh's heart condition?
no.
mr. marsh's cardiologist and his nurse have told us that you accompanied mr. marsh to their office on at least two occasions.
that is correct -- but andrew never told me he had a heart condition.  he said he had a heart arrhythmia and it was nothing serious.
that is it.  my client does not have to take this crap from you.
sit down, frank.
no.  miss lawson came in here voluntarily to answer your questions. she does not have to sit here and be insulted.  so, either you charge her now or we are leaving.
frank!
I will have you out in a few hours.
lookin' to make the papers, john?
marsh left her close to three million dollars in his will.  that is motive. she admits to being there the night of his death.  that is opportunity -- and her fingerprints are on the nasal spray bottle.
you can not show intent.
can you?
take your pole out of the water, frank.  the fish am not biting today.
you are bluffing.  john, it is me, remember?  I have known you since your name was juan carlos.
c'mon -- think about it.  if she was going to kill marsh why leave the nasal spray bottle there for the police to find?
she planned this.  she wanted us to find the nasal spray.
why would she want that?
because she is clever.  because she knows that even if we did not find it we would have suspicions as to why a man in marsh's condition would use cocaine.
suspicions maybe -- but suspicions are not enough for a conviction.
the m.e.'s report stated that marsh's nasal membranes showed no sign of prior cocaine use.  without the nasal spray we would have still treated it as a poisoning.  we would have looked for motive and the trail would have still led back to her.
i do not buy it and neither will a jury.
we are going all the way on this one, frank.  tell your client she has until the prelim to cop a plea for murder two -- fifteen to twenty five.
I will tell her but she will not take it.
then she is not as smart as i thought she was.  you have seen her in the depositions.  tell me you do not have any doubts?
she is innocent.
are not they all?
yeah.  well -- we will let the blindfolded lady with the scales decide that.
i want you to know right now that the trial's going to be nasty.  your sex life is going to be dragged through the mud.  they are going to say that you enticed marsh -- led him down a dark path.
andrew hardly needed leading.  he was a very passionate man.  he was eager to explore.  i gave him what he wanted.  we fulfilled each others needs.
this is a very small town -- people here have very straight views on sex.
I am used to being on the outside looking in.  the same men who will publicly profess their moral outrage for my sexual tastes are the same ones who privately rest their sweaty little hands on my legs and talk about weekend trips together.
those same men will be sitting on the jury.
i am who i am.  i can not deny it, anymore than you can deny who you are.  i like sex different -- i like it wild.  that is not a crime.  i loved andrew.  we made love together.  we made it differently, but we still made love.  it was our way.  it was private -- and now the whole world wants to look in through the pretense of justice.  if i was some middle-aged divorcee who screwed him once a week do you think this would be happening to me?
have you ever seen animals make love, mr. dulaney?  they have such passion -- such savage emotion.  they struggle, and snarl, and claw, but neither hurts the other.  not really.
no pain, no gain?
something like that.
we are not animals.
i think we are getting a little off the subject here.
i thought the subject was sex?
as it pertains to you -- not me.  did you always know you had different... tastes?
yes.
how?
i do not know if it is something i can explain to you.
why not?
because -- it is beyond intellect. it is emotion.  it is passion.  it has to be experienced -- it can not be imagined.
try.
when i was growing up we had a strawberry patch in our backyard. so did this family down the road.  i used to sneak in their yard and steal their strawberries.  it was not easy. the stone walls were high and I would scrape my knees as i climbed over. on the other side were wild rose bushes.  the thorns would dig into my legs and cut my thighs as i lowered myself down.
if you had what you wanted at home why did you sneak into their yard?
because -- somehow the fruit always tasted that much sweeter because of the pain it took to get to it.
albert's got the stomach flu.
that is too bad.
no, it is not.  now i get to pitch.
michael, you should not be happy when someone else is not feeling well.
not even if they are a dork?
not even if they are a dork.  you should go by and see how he is feeling.
do not use language like that at the dinner table.
sorry.
frank -- i know you are busy, but michael asked me after dinner if you were angry with him.  he wanted to know why you were not talking to him.
I will talk to him later.
why do not you talk to him now?
because i go to trial in seven weeks. I have got a lot of preparing to do.
no one's asking you not to work.  i just think you could make some time for your son.
you know how it is sometimes when you are out playing ball with your friends?  how you are really concentrating on what you are doing -- and you lose track of time and you come home late and mom yells at you?
yeah.
well, that is kind of how i am right now.
is mom yelling at you too?
i love you.
i love you too, dad.
how you doin' mister d?
fine, charlie.  you familiar with the marsh case?
yeah -- i hear they had 'em a real dog and pony show going on up there - -  I will tell you, sometimes white people are a real puzzle to me.  i mean, did this old guy really think he was going to be able to keep up with a sweet little number like that?
it could have happened to anyone.
I am sorry, man -- but i am not ever heard of no brother dying from gettin' too much pussy.
we have to find out who else would profit from marsh's death -- and who knew enough about his personal life to know that putting cocaine in the nasal spray would be fatal.
so -- where do we start?
i want you to hit all the dealers in town.  give them a list of people close to marsh and see if any of them use.  then i want you to check out a doctor alan paley.  he lives up in roseburg.
how did you meet marsh?
i was at a cocktail party.  very trendy.  andrew was in chicago on business.  he had broken his wrist the week before and was wearing it in a sling.  he looked so helpless.
-- and then?
we started talking.  in fact, we talked until four in the morning.  we discovered we shared a lot of the same interests.  after that we were together all the time until he left. he used to call me every night after he came back.  then after a few weeks he invited me to come visit him. I have never left.
why did not you live together?
can we get out of here?
sure.  where to?
this is your house.
i know.
why not?
because, I am your attorney.  i should not be going to your house.
is it against the law?
no -- it just does not look right.
what do you think?
i think the photographer's probably a voyeur.
I am the photographer.
oh -- well, they are different.
that is not an answer.
it is not my taste.
tastes can change.
nothing.
not true.  shall i tell you what you were thinking?  you were wondering if i was wearing anything under my skirt.
is that alright, frank?
yeah -- fine.  excuse me.  I will be right back.
hello?
hi.  it is frank.
hi, frank.
i just wanted to see if my secretary called to confirm your appointment tomorrow.
yes -- she did.
great.  I will see you at the office at nine.
no -- not at the office.  I have got a better idea.
yeah.
andrew loved this old cabin.  he always dreamed about moving to tahiti -- living in a hut and becoming a beach-bum.  i could never imagine myself doing that -- but somehow when he talked about it, he made it sound so alive - - so wonderful.  soft ocean breezes and beautiful sunsets -- leaving the world and it is problems behind.  i wish he would had a chance to do it.
sorry.
it is okay.
tell me about doctor paley?
i hardly know him.  he wanted me and he could not have me.
it is going to be hard to convince a jury that he is testifying against you in a murder trial because you blew him off.
it will not be that hard.
did you always want to be a lawyer?
no -- i wanted to be a professional hockey player.
really?
yeah.
that seems so far away from who you are now.  what happened?
i broke my ankle skating.  that ended that dream.
it is hard to let go of a dream, is not it?  to let go of what you want?
yes -- it would be nice.
what would?
you and me -- making love.
is that what you think i was thinking?
no -- that is what i know you were thinking.
there is nothing wrong in admitting that you want me, frank.
you take a lot for granted.
before you ask there is nothing new on the coke.
you have got to get me something i can use, charlie.
I am trying.
i worked for mr. marsh for six years. he was a good man -- until she came along.
what changed?
he did.  look, i know you can lead a horse to water but you can not make him drink -- but you hold a pail of water in front of an old horse for long enough  -- and well...
you do not really believe what the district attorney is saying about miss lawson, do you?
i do not know.  it is incredible to think that anyone could be capable of doing that -- but if anyone could it would be rebecca.
i take it you do not like miss lawson very much?
i really do not know her that well. we would say hello to each other when i would come to the house, but that was about it.
if you do not know her that well what makes you think she is capable of murder?
andrew was a kind and gentle man, but he was thirty years older than her. where is the attraction to sleep with someone like that -- to have the kind of sex they had.
how do you know what kind of sex they had?
i was not lookin' through the keyhole if that is what you are thinking.  I would come to house sometimes to pick up papers or speak to andrew.  I would find their little toys all over the place.
did mr. marsh use drugs?
no.
what about miss lawson?
yes -- cocaine.
how do you know that?
i was at the house one morning -- i thought miss lawson was upstairs with mr. marsh.  when i went into the guest bathroom she was standing in front of the mirror pouring this white powder out of a vial.
you lied to me!
what?
i just left joanne braslow.  she told me she saw you doing cocaine at marsh's house!
she is mistaken.
that is not good enough, goddamit!
it is not true.  you have to believe me.
no, i do not have to believe you.  the jury has to believe you and answers like he is lying or she is mistaken are not going to convince them.
i do not use cocaine anymore.  if she says she saw me doing it she is lying.
why would she lie?
i do not know, frank -- but do not you think that is something we should find out?
michael -- get off the phone.
why?
because I am expecting a call.
-- but it is sunday.
i know what day it is!  get off the phone.
i got to go.  I will call you later.
i called you all weekend.  where were you?
i went out on the boat.
alone?
of course.
doctor mccurdy, what was the cause of death?
a massive cardiac arrest.
what was mr. marsh's physical condition prior to his death?
very poor.  he was suffering from severe arterial disease.
was the heart attack the result of natural causes?
no.
what induced it?
we found a high concentration of cocaine in his blood.
so, mr. marsh used cocaine?
i do not think so.  the membrane in his nasal passage did not show any sign of long time usage.
then how did it get into his body?
we found a bottle of dristan nasal spray on the nightstand.  it was filled with water and cocaine.  mr. marsh had a head cold at the time of his death.  i believe he was not aware that he was ingesting cocaine.
is this the bottle that was found on the nightstand?
yes.
your honor, the state enters this evidence as exhibit a.  were any fingerprints found on the bottle?
yes -- those of mr. marsh and a thumb print of miss lawson's.
dr. mccurdy, what would cocaine do to someone in mr. marsh's condition?
increase his heart rate.
-- and if he were in the midst of making love while under the influence of cocaine?
it would be an added stress to his heart.
what would be the effect if someone secretly administered cocaine to mr. marsh and then induced him to make love?
it would be the same as shooting a gun at him.
thank you, doctor mccurdy.  your witness.
doctor trammel, when did you first diagnose that mr. marsh had heart disease?
about a year and half ago.
did mr. marsh change his lifestyle after that?
yes -- he stopped smoking and drinking and exercised regularly.
he did everything he could to take care of his heart?
yes.
did miss lawson ever accompany mr. marsh to your office?
yes.
just one last question.  what does the sign on your office door say?
doctor steven trammel.  cardiologist.
dr. trammel, did you ever speak to miss lawson about mr. marsh's condition?
no.
did mr. marsh ever tell you that he had spoken to miss lawson about his illness?
no.
did miss lawson ever accompany mr. marsh inside during his examinations?
no.
then you have no way of knowing what mr. marsh told miss lawson were the reasons for his visits?
no.  no, i don't.
how long were you mr marsh's personal secretary?
six years.
did you ever see mr. marsh use cocaine?
no -- never.
what about miss lawson?
yes.
tell the court about that, please.
i opened the bathroom door one day and saw miss lawson pouring cocaine out of a vial.
did you see mr. marsh the day before his death?
yes.
how did he look?
horrible.  he was tired and pale.
did you talk about miss lawson?
yes.
what did mr. marsh say?
how do you know it was cocaine that miss lawson had in the bathroom?
what other kind of white powder do people keep in a vial?
do you remember the date when you saw miss lawson in the bathroom?
yes--  it was on a friday.  i remember because i was going to visit my sister for her birthday.  it would be october twenty-eighth.
could you repeat the last part of what mr. marsh said to you the day before his death?
he said that if it kept up she was going to kill him.  that his heart could not take it.
did not mr. marsh also tell you that miss lawson felt bored here and was thinking about going back to chicago for awhile?
yes -- he mentioned it.
so, the woman he loved passionately was thinking about leaving.  that must cause tremendous anxiety. sleepless nights.  incredible stress.
i suppose.
so, is not it possible that he was confiding in you about the pain he was feeling about losing what might be his last chance for love?  that what he really was saying was that the uncertainty of her leaving was driving him crazy and if it did not stop it was going to kill him.  that if she did leave his heart could not take it.
i do not know.  I am not sure.
well, think about it.  is not it possible?
yes.  i suppose it is possible.
you were brilliant today.
it is only the beginning.
can i see you later?
you can see me now.
something wrong?
paley could be a problem tomorrow.
I am sure you will be able to handle him.
I am glad you have such confidence in me.
do not worry about paley.  he can not touch me.  no one can.  I have thought it all out.
what does that mean?  you have been thinking about the case?  or you thought everything out before you killed marsh?
sugar or honey?
honey.
where did you meet miss lawson?
at a dinner party -- about eight months ago.
did you ever see her again after that?
yes -- several times.
what eventually happened to your relationship with miss lawson?
we stopped seeing each other.
why?
well -- i realized that she was not interested in me.  she was just trying to get information out of me.
what kind of information?
she said that she was working on a novel and she wanted to know what kinds of drugs would be harmful to someone with a bad heart.
did you suggest any?
yes -- insulin and others.
what did she say?
she said that those were not any good -- because their use would be detected and the police would know the victim had been poisoned.  she wanted to know if there was a drug that would induce a heart attack but could also be used to enhance a sexual high.
-- and what did you suggest?
cocaine.
dr. paley, where were you the last time you saw miss lawson?
we had dinner at a restaurant.
is not it true that later that night you tried to force yourself on miss lawson in the parking lot?
no.
you did not grab her and try to kiss her?
no.
if necessary i can bring in the valet parking attendant and two customers who witnessed the occurrence.
well -- as i remember it, we had an argument.
and the argument was about the fact that you wanted to be romantically involved and she did not.
yes.
and after that did not you continuously harass miss lawson?
no.
your honor, this is a tape from miss lawson's answering machine.  i would like to play it now.
objection.  your honor, we do not know where this tape is from.  who made it -- or under what circumstances it was made.
you will be sorry?
i was angry.
you are still angry, are not you? is not it true that your whole story is nothing more than a vindictive attempt on your behalf to get back at miss lawson?
no -- she asked me about cocaine.
i suggest it never happened.
you can suggest anything you want. it happened.
no further questions.
i may have been infatuated with her - - but i would not perjure myself.
that is all dr. paley.
rebecca -- take these off.
tonight we open new doors.
what are you going you doing?
are you scared?
yeah -- what are you doing up?
we have to talk.
what is wrong?
that is what i was hoping you would tell me.
sharon, it is late.  can we get to the point?
where have you been?
working.  charlie and i were going over some statements.
charlie called at eleven thirty looking for you.  you were with her, were not you?
yes.
why did you lie to me?
because i knew you would think exactly what you are thinking.
this is not a courtroom.  do not try to turn this around on me.
I am not.
you are sleeping with her, are not you?
no.
it is bad enough that you are.  it is even worse that you can stand here and lie to me.
mrs. crawford, you were mr. marsh's maid for nine years?
yes.
did miss lawson and mr. marsh ever argue?
like cats and dogs.
what did they argue about?
you name it -- they argued about it. mr. marsh tried his best to keep her happy -- but it seemed that no matter what he did it was never enough for her.
did they argue the day before he died?
well -- he died on a sunday and i have the weekends off -- but they were ripping at each other with both barrels friday afternoon.
what was the nature of the argument?
sex.
could you be more specific?
did you ever see mr. marsh use cocaine?
no -- never.
your witness.
did you go to college, mrs. crawford?
no.
high school?
no.
your honor, i fail to see what mrs crawford's educational background has to do with this case.
i was just about to make my point, your honor.
do it quickly, mr. dulaney.
"discourteous insinuations about his sexual abilities."  who told you to say that?
i heard him say it.
then -- those are not your own words?
no.
what else did the district attorney's office tell you to say?
objection, your honor.  the fact that mrs. crawford heard mr. troxell reconstruct her sentence and decided to rephrase her words in a more intelligent manner for the court does not mean the incident never happened.
I am just curious to see if mr. troxell reconstructed anything else.
your honor -- please!
mr. dulaney, before you cast aspersions on the district attorney's office by suggesting they have coaxed this witness to say things that are not true -- you better have more than a hunch.  do you?
no, your honor.
maybe you do not know what it is like where mrs. crawford comes from -- but i do.  i came from a neighborhood just like hers.  this is a whole other world for her.  she is a poor working woman who has been thrust into a room full of highly educated and mostly unsympathetic people.  so, she puts on her best dress, fixes her hair and tries to present herself as intelligently as possible.  being poor and having pride is not a crime, mr. dulaney -- and before you attempt to impeach another witness' testimony in my courtroom -- your foundations better be based on something other than semantics.
I have got work to do.
hey -- the bell's sounded.  it is between rounds.
i did not hear it.
what is happening to you, frank? you are acting like you are on trial here.  this has become personal to you.
back off, john.
that is ridiculous.
I am talking to you as a friend now. do not ruin your life, your career for her.  she will spit you out when this is over.
you do not know what you are talking about.
really?  what does an attorney speak to his client about at her house until three of the clock in the morning?
you have been following me?
her.  it is an obvious move.  I am building a case against her, remember?
I have been waiting for you to get back.
you got something on the coke?
no -- but i got something.
i would have missed it -- but the phone rang and i let it play while i talked.  it looks like blank tape -- but it isn't.  it is been erased without any input signal coming in.
so, what good is it to us if it is been erased?
it is very good -- because when the d.a's office saw it they assumed it was the end of the tape, otherwise they would have buried it.
why?
because it has not all been erased.
who told you that?
he video taped you.
that bastard!
i thought he was a kind, gentle man?
yes, i slept with him but that was a long time ago.
you are lying.  marsh was wearing a cast on the tape.  it was right before he went to chicago and met miss lawson.  he dumped you for her, did not he?
yes.
it must have been horrible.  having to go there -- seeing them together - - knowing he was sleeping with her in the same bed he did with you.
i was jealous.  of course i was hurt. he switched me off like a little toy he was finished playing with.  but i did not kill him.
I am a practical woman mr. dulaney. killing andrew was not in my best interest.  as it is I am out of a job and I am not in his will.
money is not the only reason people commit murder, miss braslow.
your honor, i do not see a mr. roston listed as a prosecution witness.
the state's investigation just uncovered mr. roston yesterday afternoon in chicago.
your honor, mr. roston is an ex-lover of miss lawson's.
why did not the state's investigation uncover mr. roston earlier?
he was away on an extended vacation and just returned two days ago.
alright -- I am going to allow his testimony.
but your honor--
that is it, mr. dulaney.  take a seat.
mr. roston, what was your relationship with miss lawson?
we were lovers.
how long were you together?
for about one year.
how would you describe your sex life with miss lawson?
intense.
i know this is a very personal subject, but could you be a little more specific?
it was wild.  she was constantly trying to get me more and more worked up -- kinky things.  i tried to satisfy her the best i could, but it was difficult in my condition.
what kind of condition are you referring to?
i had a bad heart.
what happened next?
i had bypass surgery.
and how are you now?
fine.  the doctors say if i keep taking care of myself i can live to be a very old man.
how did your relationship with miss lawson progress after the surgery?
it didn't.
why not?
she left me.
why did she say she was leaving?
she didn't.  she just left.
why do you think she left you?
well -- i think that after the operation she realized that...
objection.  the question calls for a conclusion on the part of the witness.
your honor, mr. roston lived with the defendant for many months.  i feel that his opinion is valid in substantiating the character of the miss lawson.
the opinion of a scorned lover is hardly an objective view.
objection sustained.
did miss lawson ever give you any indication why she was leaving?
objection.  the witness has already stated that miss lawson left without an explanation.
mr. cardenas, i suggest you move on to another line of questioning.
when you say your sexual relations with miss lawson were intense what exactly do you mean?
it was like she was trying to push me as far as she could.  she called it opening new doors.
can you give the court an example?
it was like sex was a game to her. she got off on the control.  she always used to tell me it had to be her way.
it is hard to resist a woman as beautiful as she is.
what would she do that made it hard to resist?
she is a woman who is very much aware of her own sexuality.  sometimes i felt she could read my mind.  it was uncanny how she knew exactly what i wanted.  a few nights before my heart surgery rebecca woke me.  she had handcuffed me to the bed.
she told me that tonight we were going to open new doors.  i asked her to stop -- to take off the handcuffs, but she would not listen.
what did she say?
mr. roston i know this is difficult for you, but it is important you tell the court what she did.
she said she was going to fuck me like I have never been fucked before.
what did she do next, mr. roston?
she started touching herself and telling me how much she wanted me. she reached down and put me inside her.  my doctor had warned me about exerting myself -- but you really do not think of those things at a moment like that.  you just think about how beautiful this woman is -- how much you want her.  how deeply you want to please her.  at first it started off slowly -- but the rhythm built and built.    every time i got close to an orgasm she would stop.  eventually i started to have trouble breathing.  rebecca just kept going -- faster and faster.  no matter what i said she would not stop. i really thought for a moment i was going to die.
if you knew it was bad for you why did you do it?
i could not help myself.  you get lost inside a women like her.  it was like a drug.  it was the best sex i ever had.
what happened after that?
i woke up the next morning and she was gone.
did you change your will while you were with miss lawson?
yes.
who was your primary beneficiary?
she was.
thank you.  the state rests.
objection!
I will rephrase the question.  mr. roston is not it true you are bisexual?
objection!  mr. roston's sexual preferences are not at issue in this trial.
your honor, I am trying to establish the sense of betrayal miss lawson felt when she discovered the man she lived with was a different person than she thought he was.
the witness will answer the question.
mr. roston?
yes.
and your sexual tastes were something that you hid from miss lawson?
yes.
and did not miss lawson come home one day and find you in bed with your male lover?
yes.
and she left shortly after that?
would it be fair to say that when she did find out it was a shock to her?
yes.
no further questions.
what is that for?
to celebrate how masterfully you destroyed roston today.
rebecca -- we shattered a man's life in open court.
fuck him!  he tried to shatter mine.
he was only doing what he thought was right.
you are too weak, frank.  when you want something you have to do what- ever it takes to get it.  if something gets in your way you remove it.
you killed him -- did not you?
i knew you were thinking that.  i could see it in your eyes today in the courtroom.  you are wrong, frank. i need you to believe that.
you do not need anybody.
i do need you.  no matter what you think of me -- i did not do it.
I am dropping the case.
no -- you are not.
you can think whatever you want, frank -- but i did not kill andrew, and I am not going to prison for something i did not do.
you are a monster.
no -- I am a survivor.
I am sorry to barge in -- but i figured after that bombshell that got laid on you today you could use some good news?
you got something on the coke?
charlie -- are you going to make a point soon?
right now.  guess who is been buying coke from him for the last five and half years?
dr. wong -- what type of medicine do you practice?
oriental medicine.
--and is miss lawson a patient of yours?
yes.  I have been seeing her for over a year.
why does she come to you?
she suffers from severe menstrual cramps.
did you ever prescribe any medication for her cramps?
yes.
what did you prescribe for her?
chinese peony root.
would you describe for the court what chinese peony root looks like?
it is a white powder that comes in a vial.
how do you instruct your patients to take it?
i tell them to pour an amount the size of a quarter into the their hand and mix it with water.
a previous witness stated that she saw miss lawson pouring a white powder into her hand on october twenty-eighth.  according to your records when did you prescribe the drug?
october twenty-seventh.
one last question, doctor.  if someone did not know better, would it be easy to mistake the peony root for cocaine?
yes -- quite easy.
no questions.
you may call your next witness.
miss sellers, do you know dr. alan paley?
yes.
where did you meet him?
I am a nurse.  i used to work at roseburg memorial hospital.  dr. paley's on staff there.
what was the nature of your relationship with dr. paley.
we dated for about a month last year.
then what happened?
i realized he was not serious.  he was seeing other women -- asking other nurses at the hospital out, so i ended it.
-- and what did dr. paley do after you stopped seeing him?
he used to call me -- tell me that i could not just walk out on him.  he said that if i did not come back he would make my life miserable.
did he make your life miserable?
yes -- he did.
how?
objection!  may i remind mr. dulaney that the person on trial here is miss lawson -- not dr. paley.
your honor, I am trying to establish a pattern in dr. paley's behavior with women.
what did he say?
he laughed -- and basically said he would decide when it was over.
do you remember his exact words?
what happened next?
while i was seeing dr. paley i mentioned to him one night that someone was stealing drugs from the third floor dispensary.   three days after i spoke to him in his office he went to the head nurse and told her he had witnessed me stealing drugs.
what happened?
there was an inquiry.  it was his word against mine.  they believed him.  i was fired.
joanne braslow is getting more and more interesting.  i followed her today to an attorney's office. joseph koehler.
joe koehler.  i know him.  he is an estate attorney -- and he is very expensive.
what would joanne braslow need with an estate attorney?  she was not even mentioned in marsh's will.
here it is!  according to the old will joanne braslow was to inherit two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
what good does that do -- it is the old will?
under the law a person cannot profit from their own wrong doing.  since rebecca lawson is the sole beneficiary of the new will, if she is found guilty the will is void and joanne braslow could make a very good case to have the old will reinstated.
she kills the old man and makes it look like miss lawson did it.  pretty slick.
i was thinking that when the trial is over we would all go skiing for a weekend.
maybe it would be a good idea if you just took michael.
miss braslow, I would like to remind you that you are still under oath.
how often do you use cocaine?
objection, your honor.
counsel approach the bench.
your honor -- the prosecution has introduced cocaine as one of the contributing reasons mr. marsh died. how it may have been introduced into the household is of vital importance.
are you able to back up this allegation -- or are you fishing?
i can back it up.
you better.  please answer the question.
I have tried it.
you have tried it?  is not it true that you have been in and out of rehab centers for the last four years?
I have been to a few -- yes.
you do not like miss lawson much do you?
no.
you do not like her because you were involved with mr. marsh before she came along.  is not that true?
yes.
you resented the fact that she told you what to do in mr. marsh's house?
yes.
and you resented that he cared for her in a way he once cared for you?
yes.
--and that mr. marsh paid less attention to you?
yes.
--and that he changed his will?
yes.
in his previous will mr. marsh left you two hundred and fifty thousand dollars -- then he cut you out.  why do you think he did that?
she talked him into it.  she wanted everything.
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money.  that must have made you pretty angry?
yes.
yes.
well - I am a little confused.  this is a charge receipt from rosen's drug store where mr. marsh had an account.  it is dated the day of the murder.  is this your signature?
yes.
there is an item you picked up that is marked.  will you read it?
dristan nasal spray.
would you read for us the time of the purchase?
three fifteen.
a.m -- or p.m.?
p.m.
you see that is what bothers me.  no other bottle of nasal spray was found in the house.  the police looked. there was only the one bottle.  but you say you did not arrive until after mr. marsh was dead -- yet we know he was using the nasal spray prior to his death.  how do you think it got there?
i do not know.
is not it true that you stopped by the house after you left the drug store and dropped off the items you bought?
no.
is not it true that you put the cocaine in the bottle?
no!  why would i want to kill him?
because you were jealous.  because he cut you out of the will.  because you have a cocaine habit to feed -- because you know that if rebecca lawson is found guilty the new will is void -- and there is a very good chance the old one would be honored.
i know.
talk to me.
you would not like what you would see. you do not know me anymore.  i do not know me anymore.
we can not pretend this is not happening.
please -- not now.
why did not you come to me?
i do not know.
you used to like to touch me -- to make love to me.
it is more involved than that.
it was a place to start.
you think that is the answer?  sex? is that what you want?  you want me to make love to you?
i do not want our lives ruined because of this.  i love you, frank.  i want this to work -- but you have to help me.  you have to come back from where ever it is you are.
frank -- stop it!  stop it!
is this what you want -- huh?  is it?
let me go!  godammit, frank let go!
daddy -- stop it!
take some time off.
you think the d.a.'s going to file on joanne?
i do not know.
you did a good job, charlie.
thanks, mister d.
you take what people say and make it ugly.  you make others believe what you want them to.  she should have been found guilty.  she should not have gotten off.
then you would have gotten your money?
yes.
you killed him -- did not you, joanne?
what do you have in your purse?
what do you think I have got?  a gun? maybe I am going to kill you too.  maybe I will blow your head off right now.
I am going to go to jail.  i know they are going to make it look like i did it. they got to put it on someone.
why did you come here?
to show you this.  it is a letter from that lawyer, koehler.  he wrote it to me the day after i saw him.  he is the one who told me i could get the money if miss lawson went to jail.
you did not know about it before that?
no.
then why did you go see mr. koehler in the first place?
because he called me.
hi, joe.
frank -- what are you doing here?
i need to ask you a question.  what made you get in touch with joanne braslow?
you know i can not talk about that.
I am not asking for names or specifics.  i just want to know what prompted you to make the call?
sorry.
hello?
frank -- it is rebecca.  i need to see you right away.  I have got the tape.
you killed him.  you killed him -- and i got you off.
that is crazy.
I have been thinking about that.  I have decided to give it to you after I have collected the inheritance.  you can take that one if you want -- but there is another copy.
that was not the deal.
so, sue me.  things have changed.  i think you should go home -- and after you leave i see no reason for us to ever have contact again.
I am not leaving without that tape.
do not push me, frank.  i might lose my temper and send it out just for spite.
she is right, paley.  you have got to kill me.  she does not have to -- she is free -- she can not be tried again -- but you, you planned it with her.  you supplied the coke.  you are an accessory to murder.
shoot him.
do not you see what she is doing?  she needs you to kill me.  she is planned it that way from the start.  that is why she phoned me tonight.
you called him?
no -- he is lying.
how is it supposed to work rebecca? you and paley celebrate your victory. you get me over here and provoke a fight so he has to rush in and save you -- but then he is given himself away as your accomplice -- now he has to kill me.  after that i figure she will tell the police that you broke in.  that you were crazed because we humiliated you in court?
do not listen to him.  can not you see he is trying to turn you against me.
I am sure that every orgasm she had with me was faked.
that is enough.
i mean she only screwed me two or three times a night because she had to -- I am sure she did not enjoy it.
can i go?
you get his statement?
yeah.
then you can go.
