shit? this is from "josh's blair witch mix," man!
down or off--you're giving me a migraine.
christ.
just trying to set the mood for the mission--get the "feeling."
only thing I am feeling is homicidal.
hold this.
what?
the wheel.
the bitched-out babe in back here is one anna tassio--we met one dark and stormy night in a blair witch chat room, we all did--
--christ almighty--
--but she was nicer then--sweeter-- she had not vomited twice already like today--
--it's called "morning sickness," asshole--
--a six week bun in the oven--
this is her equally on-the-rag boy- friend, nick leavitt--
--turn the camera off--
--they're from umass, doing some kind of fucking term paper--
--graduate thesis--
--about the witch--
--and if she ever did--
--which she may have--
--bullshit--
--she was not a witch--we embrace nature, not evil--
--thank you, heather arendt--and arend't we glad you are here--a real witch--
--fuckin' a right--
--cotter--
--a wiccan--
--turn the goddamn camera off!
we are not making blair witch ii here.
i am.
and let it be known--before we even get to burkittsville--it's going to be an eighteen thousand times better movie--for half the cost--
--which'd be about ten bucks--
--and unlike the first one, every second of it is going to be true! "blair witch: the real story!"
cotter?
I am not finished.
we are all going to be if you do not hit the brakes.
you are a complete fucking idiot, are not you?
hey, mr. graduate fucking thesis here was s'posed to be driving!
you drive, I will handle the video, okay?
fine.
what are you doing?
this is not about us.
right. and the check's in the mail.
cheery little place.
it is like traveling back in time.
the good old days: toasting marsh- mallows over a burning witch.
they never burned witches in this country, they hanged them.
whatever--all i know is the persecution's going to start all over again, they keep pumping out inflammatory bullshit like this fucking movie--
'thought those all got stolen.
guess they thought it was safe to put some up again.
think again.
was it every day or just semi- weekly you got your ass kicked as a kid?
now you can bring the vehicle to a stop: there on the left.
why are we here?
she e-mailed me yesterday this is where we should meet her.
who?
whatzername--the "psychic" anna hired.
domini. domini von teer.
what is she look like?
no idea, just talked to her on the 'net--she's very good.
so says her website.
she is--she's helped solve a bunch of murders: arizona, new mexico--
--how old?
i dunno, probably right up there, based on her resume.
then there she blows.
jesus.
what?
that is not whatzername--it's mary brown.
from-the-movie-mary-brown, trailer park bible psycho?
oh, for chrissake, she was an actor.
no, the kids were actors, the townspeople were real. her, the sheriff, the convenience store guy--
--whatever; that is her.
i do not believe this.
i do.
i take it back--she wasn't an actor. she is a nutjob.
that is what josh and mike said.
shut-up.
domini?
yes.
what are you doing there?
trying to find the energy.
inside the grave?
to stand up--i'm exhausted. been on the road since yesterday.
you want a hand?
i want amphetamines.
beer and weed is what I have got.
both. now.
so, i hear you are from new mexico!
sometimes.
her father's sheriff of taos county.
sometimes. where are we going?
ruins of the rustin parr house.
guy who killed all the kids in the '40s.
"the voiiiiices made him do it."
the witch's voice.
she wasn't a witch.
whatever.
what is all this shit?
we are doing dusk-till-dawn taping of all the places where there've been alleged blair witch "sightings" --the parr house, coffin rock, tappy creek.
why?
see what turns up--which i guarantee will be nothing. some of the rest of the party are more hopeful--
--or incredibly fucking naive.
hey, folklore--
--myth--
--doesn't just pop out of thin air. it spins off of real events. at some point there was a blair witch--
--or one huge attack of group hysteria.
either way, maybe there is a book in it, and they both make a ton of money.
it is a serious sociological study.
the four of you really have too much spare fucking time on your hands, do not you?
and what is your excuse for being here?
she got paid.
i thought the movie was bitchin'.
no.
you sure?
yes.
what?
look over there.
okay, but--
--now there.
where they found the backpacks and all the film a year later.
buried deep under 200 years worth of soil, ash, and compost layers.
you are not only an idiot, you are a goddamn child.
why does everyone here but me have have a gigantic stick up their ass?
look at those marks--just like in the movie.
ancient runes--
--chalked just hours ago by ancient adolescents. it is called vandalism.
what is this?
oak?
no. what is it doing here in the middle of the foundation?
that is a sapling--this mother's got to be three hundred years old, minimum.
it is a sketch, anna--it's not to- scale cartography; the tree was not the kids' focus--
--do you agree it is that old, nick?
okay, fine, whatever, yes--it's an old tree.
why do not you just cut it down and count the goddamn rings--who cares?
because it means the tree is older than the house.
yeah, so?
so whoever built this--
--brother of rustin parr's maternal grandfather, somewhere after 1858--
--whoever--they built an entire house around a tree. sticking up right through the living room. somebody like to explain that to me?
the rest of the family was crazy as rusty parr.
oh, c'mon--even you have to admit this is weird.
no--this is weird.
--sacred and occult scotch tape.
rusty parr had the right idea on child care.
your parents did not have a bigger one?
it was free--i recall that was the chief selling point for you.
no offense, sweetheart: fuck you.
you know, nick, you have been something of a total asshole the past few days.
pardon me, I have had a few things on my mind--like putting this safari together.
like how weirded-out you are with this pregnancy thing.
let's just leave it at: it was one hell of a surprise.
you do not want it though.
your body, your call.
why is there no "our" here?
could we take this up later--like indoors, without half the world listening?
you feel no need to get married or anything.
anna--
--fine, later, fine.
nice tent.
had not even opened the thing since cub scouts.
never would have guessed.
so where the hell am i going to sleep?
if you are looking at me, look elsewhere.
I have got the panasonic portable dvd player.
what movies?
ask me what i do not have.
what i never could figure about the movie?
what?
three people: two guys, a girl-- sleeping in the same motel room, the same tent night after night.
yeah?
no fucking.
no.
made no sense. scared out of their minds, and the greatest stress reliever in creation right at their fingertips. nada.
no sense at all.  I am a little stressed.
try a long walk.
oooh. oooh.
ah, domini?
what?
you planning on sleeping out there?
not planning on sleeping at all.
we should be so lucky.
butt-ugly owl.
what?
you said the name "james."
i do not know.
baby names?
i do not know. nightmare.
you want me to scooch over next to you?
yes.
what are you, crazy??
what are you, nuts?
get out of here!
what are you doing with all this shit?
they are making "blair witch ii," too.
no problem, just give us 'til dawn and we are gone.
what?
look, guys, we are cold, we are tired we are shook--we just want to get out of here as soon as there is light. we saw something up at coffin rock today--
--or someone--
--scared the living shit out of us.
--yeah, a hand or something--
--coming out of the water--
--stop it! stop talking about it! I am going to freak!
i just wanna go home.
how're the cameras doing?
due for a re-load and battery check. I will get on it.
'give you a hand. i think my sleep for the night just ended.
join the club.
--and none of 'em were mine! i-am-so-fucked, i-am-so-fucked-- where the hell was everybody???
asleep--
--what happened to the goddamn "witch-watch??"
--i dunno, i just woke up--
--last thing i remember were those four clowns shooting the movie--
--yeah, the goddamn stoners! who you think stole the stuff!?
ripped? they look like they were bit off.
smells like teenage spirit.
this is funny?? this is tens of thousands of fucking dollars!  you pricks! I will see you in fucking court!!
not the only things missing, nick.
that is almost a year's worth of work!  scumbags! oh, jesus, jesus....
at least you still have the tapes.
one set. everything from midnight on--
--no, i think they are all in there.
how did you know they were--
--hunch. just sort've saw 'em there.
my ass--you saw those four fucking baboons put 'em there!
no.
cotter, i think she is right. why would those guys go to all the trouble of stealing the camera and all this other stuff and leave the tapes?
spite.
they were making a movie--if they were going to steal anything it would be just the tapes, to see if we had anything they didn't.
i do not think it was them.
oh, who did then? blair witch? snatching equipment to make her own sequel?
i do not know yet.
well, please keep me fucking informed!
this is a goddamn disaster. let's just pack it up and go.
i want to see the tapes.
and what do you possibly think you are going to fucking see there?
no idea. but if that is all we have got left--
--nothing left to play 'em on, honey.
oh, sorry, right.
you can be goddamn sure, though, I am going to be looking at every second of 'em when i get back to baltimore--i get proof who stole my shit and i call the cops!
we are ticketed to fly back from baltimore, anyway.
me, too.
hey, i got a whole editing suite in my loft--more the fucking merrier.
pointless.
no. i do not think so.
403 41st street, kids: home.
i dunno it is safe to even get out of the car.
by day? no sweat.
what about night?
not a great idea. especially 'cross the street.
druid hill park.
that is a joke?
that is its name. a pastoral glade gamboling with crackheads and homeless and averaging at least one homicide a week.
let's get inside.
first enormous brick warehouse on your right.
used to be a meat-packing plant. slaughter on the ground floor-- carcasses schlepped up on this thing for dissection and grinding and--
--cotter: shut up.
what?
just one lock in this neighbor- hood?
all i need--
get inside quick, they will stop.
too busy eating us?
just go.
mi casa y su casa!
su casa y shit-o hole-o.
hey, hon'--this is what pays the rent and tuition.
running a junk yard.
a cyber entrepreneurialship.
english.
i spend a lot of time on e-bay. buying, selling--sometimes buying then re-selling at substantial mark-up, sometimes just selling crap i find in the street.
looks like business is booming.
there is some stuff that is hard to part with. editing's stuff's up there--
i think we get the gist.
we have looked at half of one tape.
there is four other angles, man, we have not even--
--great: we can watch domini sleep for hours--or, shit, maybe if we stay at it for a couple of days, maybe a deer'll dash by!
for once could you just sit down, shut up, and give something a chance?
we are leaving--case dismissed for lack of evidence. maybe on the ride home we can figure how the fuck we are going to graduate with no thesis.
I am not going anywhere, 'til--
--bullshit!
hey, chill, man--
--there's something here, nick--
--now c'mon!
get your goddamn--
what--
--oh, jesus--
why?
any number of reasons--pick one, it is as good as the other.
i was out hiking, camping the past two days--that's what did it--i killed it--
--doubtful, mrs. leavitt. the main thing to remember is, whatever the reason, it was for the best-- it meant something was wrong.
something was wrong.
look, this is not my field of expertise. you seem stabilized, but why take any chances? let's keep you overnight and have the staff obstetrician do a follow-up tomorrow.
i guess--
no!
mrs. leavitt--
--i'm not staying here!
let's talk to your husband--
--he's not my husband!
we will stay overnight, get a hotel--
--cotter's--
--whatever you want, no problem--
--still go see the ob in the morning--
what can i get you?
sleep.
something happened to anna in burkittsville, in the woods, i do not know.
what? that made her lose the baby?
something. someone.
women miscarry all the--
--no.
this is a little nuts.
turn the tapes back on.
fine.
what is that?
hmm? i dunno. chafing from the backpack, something.
that would be up on your shoulder, maybe your lower back.
then i have no idea.
does it hurt?
like hell. play the goddamn tape.
you wanna keep it down, she is trying to sleep.
sorry, i did not think we were making that much noise.
it is not a real "funny" time for us, okay?
nothing. i dunno--
--you should get back into bed.
i guess, yeah.
was that you laughing?
what?
just now?
no.
just...try and go back to sleep.
i get dreams. i do not like 'em.
what did you dream?
little boys. looking up my skirt as i danced. giggling.
here.
there, what? i did not see anything.
back it up, rewind, whatever you call it.
fine.
what did you see?
motion. stop there. play it again.
whatta you got, telescopic vision?
still do not see it--
okay, a blur.
can you zoom it or something, make it real close, real big?
I am the ebay boy, remember? i can not exactly afford that kind of equipment.
who do you know who can? where do we go?
for a blur?
there is something there--don't ask, just trust me.
can not you like just divine it?
if i could do that, I would be at the goddamn racetrack, not here.
i got a friend at a lab. i could get the whole thing blown-up, enhanced--
--go!
four in the morning?
cotter'll kill you.
he will never know.
two-to-one he dusts the keyboard for fingerprints the second he gets back.
at least go drink it somewhere spilling it will not drive him to suicide.
okay.
what is it you thought you saw on that tape?
still working on it.
elly kedward?
no. elly kedward's not the problem here, i do not think. she was just a good old-fashioned white witch--
you are going to owe me the rest of your life, bud.
i know, i know.
beta cam's still coming back tomorrow, right?
absolutely.
before 5:00--
--hours before--
--christ, they find out i let you have it for the weekend--
--no one'll ever know.
this is what you wanted enhanced?
yeah.
you mind me asking: why the fuck?
the, uh, blur there.
looks like a rope.
dad...?
what did you say?
are you alright?
....i do not know.
so lemme see it.
just let me get my coat off--i had eight cups of coffee, I am wired for sound here.
where is it?
i got the tape enhanced--and i managed to sleaze a photo blow-up. jesus, he is going to kill me when he finds out about the camera.
gimme it!
jesus.
what?
that is the reason.
what?
why she kills children.
the witch?
it is not about witches, goddamnit!
someone want to tell me what is going on--
--and we brought it back with us!
what?
it touched me, do not you see it now?
slow it down, slow it down, whatever it is, we will figure it out.
that is why she kills children.
i know, i know--
you gonna be alright?
sure. I am sorry.
no big deal. I am just trying to understand.
get some more beer.
i think you closed the bar again. I will have to go out.
go to the store. when you get back, I will try to make sense of it for you.
what are you afraid's going to happen?
that they will start touching us inside our heads.
she wants me to talk to you, heather.
who is this??
your mother's pastor.
what happened to my dad??
there was an accident early this morning. another car. your father's injuries were fatal.
yes.
I will tell your mother not to expect you at the funeral.
no.
where is domini?
my room, asleep, last i checked.
well, she is got to be somewhere here.
no one's been in or out since you left. would have heard the dogs.
fire escape??
do not have one.
she would have had to have a key, anyway, to lock the deadbolt behind her.
well, she got out of here some- how because she is not here!!
good morning, sheriff's office.
yes! i need to speak to sheriff von teer.
he is in a meeting. could i have him--
--it's urgent!
could i tell him what it is regarding?
his daughter, for god's sake-- i need to know if he is heard from her this morning.
....ma'am?
I am talking to taos, new mexico--
--yes--
--the sheriff's office--
--yes, ma'am, can i help you with anything else?--
--his name's von teer! his daughter's named domini!--
--thank you for calling--
finally got her back to sleep.
nick, what you should do is get her back up and get her to a goddamn doctor.
jesus, you do not think i know that? you do not think I have tried? she will not fucking go-- she will not leave this place.
she is off her fucking rocker--
--i know!
I am sorry.
yeah, i know. it's...alright. we are all a little--
--a lot.
heather.
yeah.
okay. hypothetically.
shoot.
you think....there could have been something up in those woods that anna--
--it's not a could've--there was, nick. and it fucked up anna, and did something to domini, and it caused my father to die, and it is here with us in this place now. and i do not have one single idea in hell what is going to happen next, just that it is going to happen to one of us. and then the other. and then the other. it is going to get into our brains.
there is explanations. rational explanations for everything that is happened. we will drive ourselves crazy if we keep obsessing on supernatural what-ifs.
that feels good. lower--down into my neck.
i do not know what it is, but there is something happening here, and it is starting to scare the living shit out me, and look, I am just not going to argue the point anymore--you want to stay here, stay, but I have got to get the fuck out of here, and I am begging you to come with me.
i can't.
then I am going--
--no, you are not. you love me too much. you do not want to see them kill me.
same trees. they took elly kedward out to the same kind of trees.
--i look and look in the tree, all i ever see, he is always there watching, that stupid owl, over and over--
--cotter, where can i get on-line?
--anywhere, anywhere, all up and live, all the time--fucking owl--
cotter?
fucking owl!
you think it is possible the tree in the parr foundation is the same one they tied elly kedward to?
no idea--goddamitt!
boy kurth.
heather, does that look like domini there?
where?
down there in the park.
not the place you want to announce your arrival.
how is she going to know where to--
--things got a way of finding you here.
it is freezing.
next time try putting on shoes--
what the fuck--??
--i do not know.
the moon trying to shoot down through all these trees--can make things funky--
--i saw what i saw.
yeah. me too.
the cart they brought elly kedward into the woods with--
--into the black hills with--200- something miles from here--
--domini!
be it still alive, james?
what--
what?
i dunno it is anything. it is a name anna's mentioned--from her dreams.
how much of that stuff you guys been smoking?
enough to keep sane.
enough to make shapes and shadows in the dark into something else.
spare me.
hey, chemicals, fear, sleep- deprivation--and a round-the-clock obsession with the occult--hell've a recipe for a mind-fuck.
I would strongly advise you to join us--
--before you lose your emotional lunch.
we are being fucked with here, someone or something.
domini.
why in the world would she--
--why in the world would she just fly the coop in the first place?
chrissake: why any of this?
i think it is time to get out of here.
nobody's going anywhere--
--hell, i do not think I am ever leaving this place again--
--one of us, all of us--i have no idea--brought whatever this thing is back here. we are not going to go out there and spread it around like typhoid mary. we are going to figure it out, we are going to bring a goddamn end to it.
domini's the only logical explanation.
we are not dealing with fucking logic here!
it is domini, it is not domini, i do not care--all i know is i'm not dealing with something--anything-- snuffing me in my sleep. i want to do what we did in the woods-- surveillance of this whole place 24/7, with somebody monitoring those cameras every second. there is something, somebody here, i want to see 'em coming.
i thought all your equipment got stolen.
all the shit that was worth anything, yes. you would be amazed, though, what you can get free on the 'net.
i can not do it!
don't! you are making me lose my grip.
just hold on!
i can't!
just let it go, I have got you!
what are you nuts--
--it's less than four feet, just--
--shit!!!
gothic rune--the letter "s."
or a blood blister--or a bruise.
that is a "j."
for "james?"
goes right along with these two.
put 'em together that is a "k." james kurth--
--or lyme disease or poison sumac, or god knows what-else we could have picked up in the woods.
you know what we picked up in the woods--
who?
no one ever comes here.
i know you are in there, you piece of shit!
you have to go.
not until i get that beta cam back! we are both in a world of shit here!!
i can't.
it is my fucking job, man!!
i can not let you in.
i should check on anna.
check the monitor, she is fine.
she is far from "fine."
you are needed here--keep watching--
--f'chrissake, heather, it is not like the two of us are going to doze off he leaves for two seconds--
--i do not trust anybody, not even me, anymore--
--shhhh! #5, there is something up there!
what?
one of the printers.
no. we all go.
anna--
--fuck anna!
--it's the "blair witch cult"--a copy-- some pages from--one of them on the site must have gotten my message--
--who?
does not say--it's just these pages.
"it's why the witch kills children."
i thought all witches were benign and good.
not this one.
i need you to talk to me, talk to me about the dreams--about james, the other boys.
i don't...i do not understand them myself.
try, please, anna--
--bad boys, mean boys, cowardly boys--just like domini.
what do you mean?
a coward too. that is why she had to go.
what happened to her, where did she go?
do not know--just that she was afraid--
--anna--
what, are you alright?
my eye, is there something in my eye?
not that i can see.
closer. lift the lid and look-- it hurts.
no.
closer.
remember....what mary brown said-- she could see the witch's hands on my face, her mouth sucking on mine.
anna's the witch.
what the fuck's going on here?
does she have marks, nick--like the ones we have, that domini had?
why?
does she, goddamnit??
not that I have seen--but that has no meaning--that means nothing.
why was she exempted, nick?
maybe whatever they are, they just have not appeared yet on her?
it is possible for chrissake--
--the marks appear, then you disappear. like the little kurth boy, like domini, as soon as they come to full bloom--and mine are!
like a blueprint for disembowelment.
there are other explanations! she is not the goddamn witch, that is insane!
then just give me one of your explanations that all three of us'll buy.
i don't....
i want to see something!
whatever you want.
the clothes--take 'em off-- i want to see every square inch--
--no, what is wrong with you?
are you marked like this??
why?
i see for proof positive you are the goddamn witch--
you killed domini, did not you, witch??
I am not a witch, you are all crazy!
--like you hurt the baby--
--what're you saying?? i did not have anything to do with--
--the witch kills children--
i have not killed any--
--jamie kurth, jonathan edmunds--
--my god, nick???
please! please...? i have not done anything.
bullshit! talk!
nick!!
hang you like the witch you are, unless--
--nick!!
oh, jesus, no--
--fuck your bullshit pieties! you were the next to die, asshole!
