they are coming!
how many?
three, maybe more!
armed?
they are english soldiers, am not they?
with your father and brother gone, they will kill us and burn the farm!
it is up to us, hamish!
wanna stay with me tonight?
i wanna have supper waitin'.
we will get those english pigs tomorrow.
aye, we will get 'em.
someone dead from this household?
we just had a funeral, is not that what it means in england as well?
what it means in england -- and in scotland too -- is that rebels have forfeited their lands. we were ambushed last night. but the scots dragged their dead away.
my brother and nephew perished two days ago, when their hay cart turned over.
then we will just have a peek at the wounds.  dig 'em up!
they have been sanctified and buried in the holy rites of god's church, and any hand that disturbs them now takes on eternal damnation. so please -- do it.
we will sleep here tonight. you will come home with me. we will let the house, and the lands too; plenty of willing neighbors.
i do not want to leave.
did not want your father to die either, did ya? but it happened.
did the priest say anything about the resurrection? or was it all about judgment?
it was in latin, sir.
non loquis latinum? you do not speak latin? we have to fix that, will not we?  did he give the poetic benediction? the lord bless thee and keep thee? patris benefactum et --  ...it was malcolm's favorite.
what are they doing?
saying goodbye in their own way -- in outlawed tartans, with outlawed pipes, playing outlawed tunes.
where is my son?
your pardon, m'lord, he asked me to come in his stead.
i sent for him -- and the little coward send you?!
shall i leave, m'lord?
if he wants his queen to rule, then you stay and learn how! i will deal with him.
what is it?!
you directed me to report to you the moment the king's conference was ended.
so i did! and what was so important about it?
scotland. he intends --
shut up, would you! how can i concentrate?!
...his majesty was quite keen that you should understand --
all so very boring! he wants me to learn to fight too, so let me do it!
no, m'lord.
look at me. i said look at me!
now, my flower, do you understand?
yes. i had thought that... i was loathsome to you. perhaps i am. if i may be excused, m'lord.
you may.
young robert, we are honored --
my father hears that longshanks has granted prima noctes.
clearly meant to draw more of his supporters here.
a wise plan. and how is your father? we have missed him at the council.
he strained his leg so that it pains him to ride. but he sends his greetings -- and says that i speak for all the bruces. and for scotland.
test of manhood.
you win.
call it a test of soldiery, then. the english will not let us train with weapons, so we train with stones.
the test of a soldier is not in his arm. it is here.
i still say this is no test. a catapult can throw a stone farther than a man can.
that depends on the man.
can you do it when it matters? as it matters in battle? could you crush a man with that throw?
i could crush you like a roach.
you will move
i will not.
good to see you again.
i should'a remembered the eggs.
your father does not like me, does he?
it is not you. he dislikes that you are a wallace. he just says... the wallaces do not seem to live for very long.
thank you for accepting.
thank you for inviting.
I will invite you again, but your mother thinks I am crazy.
you are. and I will come again.
you have been here before?
some nights. i have dreams. mostly dreams i do not want. i started riding at night to fill up my mind so that when i did sleep I would dream only of the ride and the adventure.
did it work?
no. you do not choose your dreams. your dreams choose you.
i want... to marry you!
i... accept your proposal!
I am not just saying it!
nor i!
but i will not give you up to any nobleman.
you scare me.
i do not want to scare you. i want to be yours, and you mine. every night like this one.
this night is too beautiful to have again.
i will be with you, like this. forever.
I have missed you.
shush. it is only been a day.  and it is seemed like forever.
tonight then.
my parents are growing suspicious! i can not keep meeting you every night!
then when?
...tonight!
scottish rebels have routed lord bottoms!
i hear. this wallace is a bandit, nothing more.
I will wait... back there.
hamish, i... thank...
we make spears. a hundred spears. fourteen feet long.
fourteen? --
all right, father, I will ask him!  if i risk my neck for you, will i get a chance to kill englishmen?
is your poppa a ghost -- or do you converse with god almighty?
in order to find his equal, and irishman is forced to talk to god.  yes, father!...  the almighty says do not change the subject, just answer the fookin' question.
excellent! stephen is my name. I am the most wanted man on the emerald isle. except I am not on the emerald isle of course, more's the pity.
a common thief.
a patriot!
I am dreaming.
yes, you are. and you must wake.
i do not want to wake. i want to stay with you.
and i with you. but you must wake.
i need you so much! i love you!
wake up, william. wake up!
we must run in different directions!
we do not split up!
they used hounds on us in ireland, it is the only way!
we can not stop!
they have tricked us.
what is the crazy man saying, lord?
the dogs have a scent. my scent. someone must have given it to them.
who would do such a thing?
exactly.
i thought i was dead when ya pulled that dagger!
no english lord would trust an irishman!
when the king returns he will bury them in those new clothes. scotland is in chaos. your husband is secretly sending an army north.
how do you know this?
last night i slept with a member of the war council.
he should not be telling secrets in bed.
ah, oui! englishmen do not know what a tongue is for.
this scottish rebel... wallace? he fights to avenge a woman?
a magistrate wished to capture him, and found he had a secret lover, so he cut the girl's throat to tempt wallace to fight -- and fight he did.
knowing his passion for his lost love, they next plotted to take him by desecrating the graves of his father and brother and setting an ambush at the grave of his wife. he fought his way through the trap and carried her body to a secret place! now that is romance, oui?
...i would not know.
fine speech. now what do we do?
bring out our spearmen and set them in the field.
does anyone know his politics?
no. but his weight with the commoners could unbalance everything. the balliols will kiss his ass, so we must.
but... what will you do?
i will invade england. and defeat the english on their own ground.
invade?! that is impossible, it --
wait! ...i respect what you said. but remember, these men have lands, castles. much to risk.
and the common man who bleeds on the battlefield, does he risk less?
no. but from top to bottom this country has no sense of itself. its nobles share allegiance with england and its clans war with each other. if you make enemies on both sides of the border, you will end up dead.
we all end up dead. it is only a question of how. and why.
I am no coward! i want what you want! but we need the nobles.
nobles? what does that mean -- to be noble? your title gives you claim to the throne of our country. but men do not follow titles, they follow courage! your arm speaks louder than your tongue. our people know you. noble and common, they respect you. if you would lead them toward freedom, they would follow you. and so would i.
what news of the north?
nothing new, majesty. we have sent riders to speed any word.
while i am in france fighting to expand your future kingdom i learn that stirling castle is lost, our entire northern army wiped out! and you have done nothing?!
i have ordered conscriptions...
wallace has sacked york!
impossible.  how dare you bring a panicky lie.
i am the princess of wales.
wife of edward, the king's son?
i come as the king's servant, and with his authority.
it is battle i want, not talk.
but now that i am here, will you speak with a woman?
i understand that you have recently been given the rank of knight.
i have been given nothing. god makes men what they are.
did god make you the sacker of peaceful cities? the executioner of the king's nephew, my husband's own cousin?
york was the staging point for every invasion of my country. and that royal cousin hanged a hundred scots, even women and children, from the city walls.
that is not possible.
let us talk plainly. you invade england. but you cannot complete the conquest, so far from your shelter and supply. the king proposes that you withdraw your attack. in return he grants you title, estates, and this chest with a thousand pounds of gold, which i am to pay to you personally.
a lordship. and gold. that i should become judas.
peace is made is such ways.
slaves are made in such ways!
i understand you have suffered. i know... about your woman.
she was my wife. we married in secret because i would not share her with an english lord. they killed her to get to me. and she was pregnant.
my son's loyal wife returns, unkilled by the heathen. so he accepted our bribe.
no. he did not.
then why does he stay? my scouts say he has not advanced.
he waits. for you. he says he will attack no more towns -- if you are man enough to come fight him.
you spoke with this wallace in private. what kind of man is he?
...a mindless barbarian. not a king like you, m'lord.
the scottish nobles have sent him no support. his army starves. our stall has worked, he must withdraw. you may return to your embroidery.
humbly, m'lord.
no. i have it to ease the suffering of the children of this war.
this is what happens when you must send a woman. and a fool.
forgive me, sire. i thought that generosity might demonstrate your greatness to those you mean to rule.
my greatness is better demonstrated with this.
the weapon has been outlawed by the pope himself!
so the scots will have none of them, will they? my armorers have already made a thousand.
a thousand.  you have made me guardian of scotland. so i tell you this is what we face.
we must sue for peace.
peace?!
we cannot defeat this --
with cavalry -- not heavy, like the english, but light, fast horsemen, like you nobles employ -- we could outmaneuver their bowmen!
it is suicide.
war finds me willing. i know it will not bring back all i have lost. but it can bring what none of us have ever had -- a country of our own. for that we need a king. we need you.
i am trying.
then tell me what a king is! is he a man who believes only what others believe? is he one who calculates the numbers for and against him but never weighs the strength in your own heart? there is strength in you. i see it. i know it.
i must... consult with my father.
and i will consult with mine.
the bruce is not coming, william.
mornay has come. so will the bruce.
stephen ready?
aye.
now we kill two birds at one stroke. we recruit from scotland for our armies in france.
the scots will fight for us?
what choice do they have? now they must serve us or starve.
but if we have not caught wallace --
he is gone! finished! dead! if he has not yet bled to death or had his throat cut for him, he will not survive the winter. it is very cold -- is it not, our flower?
i am the one who is rotting. but i think your face looks graver than mine.
he was so brave. with courage alone he nearly won.
so more men were slaughtered uselessly!
he broke because of me. i saw it. he lost all will to fight.
we must have alliance with england to prevail here. you achieved that! you saved your family, increased your lands! in time you will have all the power in scotland!... yet you grieve.
in my heart i had begun to hope that he would never break.
all men lose heart. all betray. it is exactly why we must make the choices we make.
his legend grows! it will be worse than before!
you let wallace escape your whole army. you cannot blame me for this.
good day to you, m'lords.
you mock us with a smile?
i am cheerful with a plan to soothe your miseries. all of england shudders with the news of renewed rebellion.
wallace's followers.
wallace himself. if you wish to pretend a ghost rallies new volunteers in every scottish town, i leave you to your hauntings. if you wish to take him, i know a way.
i have faced him. have you?
let her speak.
he will fight you forever. but what does he fight for? freedom first, and peace. so grant them.
the little cow is insane --
grant, as you do everything else, with treachery. offer him a truce to discuss terms, and send me to my castle at locharmbie as your emissary. he trusts me. pick thirty of your finest assassins for me to take along. and i will set the meeting, and the ambush.
thanks for the food and drink. and for bringing 'em yourselves.
we are here to stay. we do not care to live, if we can not fight beside ya.
a meeting in a barn. it had to be a trap. and only you would know i would be aware of it.
it does me good to see you.
why did you?
because of the way you are looking at me now. the same way... as when we met.
you have... you have a husband.
i have taken vows. more than one. I have vowed faithfulness to my husband, and sworn to give him a son. and i cannot keep both promises.
you understand. consider, before you laugh and say no. you will never own a throne, though you deserve one. but just as the sun will rise tomorrow, some man will rule england. and what if his veins ran not with the blood of longshanks, but with that of a true king?
i cannot love you for the sake of revenge.
no. but can you love me for the sake of all you loved and lost? or simply love me... because i love you?
rest, william.
i rest.
your rest is making me exhausted.
come, it will help you sleep.
aye. but it will not let me dream.
may he rest in peace... you have already sealed the coffin?
he was a modest man.
it will not be long before longshanks too is encased in stone, and his crowns divided for others to wear.
if i pay homage to another's throne, then how am i a king?
homage is nothing. it is the crown that matters!
the crown is that of scotland. and scotland is william wallace.
that is another matter. there is a price to all this, required both by longshanks and our nobles. pay it, and you will be our king. and we will have peace.
sir william. we come to seek a meeting.
you have all sworn to longshanks.
an oath to a liar is no oath at all. an oath to a patriot is a vow indeed. every man of us is ready to swear loyalty to you.
so let the council swear publicly.
we cannot. some scarcely believe you are alive. other think you will pay them mornay's wages. we bid you to edinburgh. meet us at the city gates, two days from now, at sunset. pledge us your pardon and we will unite behind you. scotland will be one.
i will meet you, but only one way -- if robert the bruce is there, and puts his hand on my bible, and swears his loyalty to scotland.
he has already agreed to come.
you know it is a trap.
probably. but we can not win alone. we know that. this is the only way.
i do not want to be a martyr.
nor i! i want to live! i want a home and children and peace. I have asked god for those things. but he is brought me this sword. and if he wills that i must lay it down to have what he wants for my country, then I will do that too.
that is just a dream, william!
we have lived a dream together. a dream of freedom!
your dreams are not about freedom! they are about marion! you have to be a hero, because you think she sees you! is that it?
my dreams of marion are gone. i killed them myself. if i knew i could live with her on the other side of death, I would welcome it.
keep these. we are going too.
no. one of us is enough.
he will not come.
he will. i know he will.
is it true? wallace is captured?
simply because he eluded your trap, do you think he is more than a man? my father is dying. perhaps you should think of our coronation.
when will his trial be?
wallace's? for treason there is no trial. tomorrow he will be charged, then executed.
longshanks promised!
you are surprised he would lie? balliol was murdered in a church yesterday. you are longshanks' new designate. you will be king.
treason. against whom?
against thy king, thou vile fool! hast thou anything to say?
never, in my whole life, did i swear allegiance to your king --
it matters not, he is thy king!
-- while many who serve him have taken and broken his oath many times. i cannot commit treason, if i have never been his subject!
confess, and you may receive a quick death. deny, and you must be purified by pain. do you confess? ...do you confess?!
i do not confess.
then on the morrow, thou shalt receive they purification... and in the end, i promise you will beg for the axe.
m'lady... what kindness of you to visit a stranger.
sir, i... come to beg you to confess all, and swear allegiance to the king, that he might show you mercy.
will he show mercy to my country? will he take back his soldiers, and let us rule ourselves?
mercy... is to die quickly. perhaps even live in the tower. in time, who knows what can happen, if you can only live.
if i swear to him, then everything i am is dead already.
you will die! it will be awful!
every man dies. not every man really lives.
drink this! it will dull your pain.
it will numb my wits, and i must have them all. if I am senseless, or if i wail, then longshanks will have broken me.
i can not bear the thought of your torture. take it!
i have come to beg for the life of william wallace.
you fancy him.
i respect him. at worst he was a worthy enemy. show mercy... oh thou great king... and win the respect of your own people.
nor you. to you that word is as unfamiliar as love.
before he lost his powers of speech, he told me his one comfort was that he would live to know wallace was dead.
