i do not know a recent saturday I have sold more.  you did not think I would sell that health restaurant, did you?
no.  not even you.
why so glum?
i do not know.
go ahead.
no, nothing.  I have got a problem, i guess.
were you bothering by those waitresses making a fuss?
no.  but, honest.  what are you supposed to say when they keep talking about your looks?  i do not even know what they mean -- "beat them off with a stick."
you know, tom, i feel a little proud when people comment on your looks.  maybe you should feel that way.
proud?  I am just embarrassed that i like when they say those things.
as long as that is your only problem you're...
it is not.
i got my report card.  three cs, two ds and an incomplete.
oh my.  i see you studying so hard, tom.  what do you think the problem is?
I will just have to try harder.  i do not know.  i will.  i will.  i will.  i will.
thanks, dad, this talk helped.  will you sign it, please?
would it help if i got you a tutor?
that would be great.  it better help.  what can you do with yourself if all you do is look good?
...am starting to get jealous. i read in the newspapers about the italian strike and riots in milan.  i hope you weren't...
honey?...
jane -- for god's sake...  look, it is time for you to go to sleep.
i just have two more pen pals and then I am done.
you do not have to finish tonight.
nooo.  this way the rotation stays the same.
finish quickly.  i do not want you getting obsessive about these things.  good night.
hi.  turn on your tv... good morning america, the morning news and today are all about to talk to arnold schwarzenegger and i think he is live on at least two of them.
at six of the clock on the wake-up news they used the wrong missile graphic.
now listen, arnold just said that he is been making three million a movie now.  but he is not ever going to change.  he is still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie.  he feels no different.  he also bought a brand- new condo with maria, they going to furnish tastefully.
a half hour in the lobby.
okay, I will see you in the lobbies [<i>sic</i>].
ready.
your hair's a little funny.
it is an ethnic curl, i can not do anything about it.
in front of a little -- it is a bit... you want a mirror?
no -- do not worry about it.  let's do this.
okay.
in other times, for other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for j.d. singer's return from war.  he...
oh, you mean use him...that's nice.  okay.
I will put him in the low corner of the frame -- good.
in other times, with other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for j.d. singer's return from war.  last week he was decorated by a president for heroism in a war.  but it was the civil war -- in angola -- and he was in it for the money.
just a few questions?
no.
we came from washington.
move away from me.
how long has it been since you have been home.
fuck.  fuck.  fuck.  fuckes.  snot... fuckee.  you want to use that?
it depends on how big a news day it is.
where is where i asked him about being scared?  you should work on your speech.
no.  it makes me nervous to think about it.  let's do this.
all this business of war -- do you get scared?
uh-uh.  I am a little freaked right now about seeing my father though.
hi.
i just wanted to tell you  how great you were.  my name's tom grunick.
thank you.  they hated me.  i do not hate them.
well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something... and you did that.
hi.  i was worried i was early.
i was a lot earlier.
i kept thinking what a great break it was for me to get to see you tonight.  more than a great break, maybe just what i needed...just when i needed it...angel of mercy -- godsend...lifesaver...what?
i like "godsend."
i have not been in news that long. I have just been looking for the right person to talk to.  i have about two thousand questions for you.
if we could just eat first.
totally understood.  totally wrong of me to talk shop after the day you have had.  totally sorry.
nooo.  if i could just have a roll, I would be okay.
another thing i can not stand is ...when white house reporters bullshit with each other after a briefing and then one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "white house" sources say...
that actually goes on...
yes.  my room is down here -- I am not tired.  do you want to keep talking?
yes, sure.
come on...even I am not that hard on myself.
no, i really got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear where it ends up.
i was doing sports at the station. the newspaper ran this untrue story that i was leaving and they got all these tons of protest mail.  so they made me anchor.
so great -- right?
except I am no good at what I am being a success at.
how are you at back rubs?
listen to me.  you keep on thinking I am somebody ho lacks...confidence. that is not it.  i know i can talk well enough and I am not bad at making contact with people, but i do not like the feeling that I am pretending to be a reporter.  and half the time i do not really get the news I am talking about.  it is not that I am down on myself.  trust me, i stink.
i trust you.
i did not even have the chance to get really good at sports.  i was not bad. i thought i was starting to do interesting features but hockey is big at the station and...
what about the obvious remedy? reversing things.  maybe getting a job on a newspaper.
i do not write.
but that did not stop me from sending out audition tapes to bigger stations and the networks.
well, come on -- it is your life. nobody is tying you to the fast track.  did you go to college?
one year...almost one year.
so, you are not well educated and you have almost no experience and you can not write.
it is hard for me to advise you since you personify something that i truly think is dangerous.
uh-huh.
i agree with you -- you are not qualified.  so get qualified.  you can insist on being better prepared.  you do not have to just leave it as...  'i do not write.  I am not schooled. i do not understand the news I am reading. but at least I am upset about it, folks.'
whoa, this was a mistake.
just what do you want from me, anyway? permission to be a fake?  stop whining and do something about it.
he must have been great-looking, right?
why do you say that?
because nobody invites a bad- looking idiot to their bedroom.
okay.  let's do me.
sure.
okay.  i feel like I am slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they are slipping because their standards are so high?
this conversation is not worthy of you.
I would give anything if that were true.
good night.
would not this be a great world if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive?  if needy were a turn-on?
call if you get weird.
i never told you the reason i was telling you everything for.
hey?
those audition tapes i sent out... I have been hired by your network for the washington bureau.  so I will probably see you at work.  sorry.
they did not hire peter stiller from the times and he had a great audition tape.
you want to start going over who they could have gotten?  they can not take on people like this for network news.  for god's sake.  what is going on?
go back to 316, bobbie.  the sound bite in the cab -- it starts, 'i do not know how I will feel...'
we could...
please, bobbie, we are pushing.
they said it would be okay if...
we are working here!!  you can stand over in the uh, uh, uh...
play back the last line...
he said something about...
let me hear it!
you do not have time.  not a chance.
I will be right down.  it is right tight.
I have got to tell ernie...because there is not enough time.
yes, there is.
okay.  i just wanted you to know.
what is she shooting?
norman rockwell's 'homecoming.'
oh, that is nice...  we will need some new lines.
okay, bobbie, just a two-second dissolve to the rockwell.
should i...
just a two-second dissolve.
norman rockwell's enduring portrait of a homecoming  the return of a fighting man has always been one of the more moving ceremonies of war... tearful women, proud men, excited children.  but j.d. singer was right -- his homecoming was no big deal.
we have a minute and a half.  it is my responsibility to tell them we will not be ready.
nine seconds.
eleven and a half.
oh, god.  back it, bobbie -- bobbie?
shit, shit, shit...
you are almost there, you can do it -- can do -- can do.
i was a little nervous there for a minute.
oh, come on -- tell us another.
i saw the smile -- good piece.
I am going to go look at it again.
I am sorry if i was in the way.  it was totally impressive.  great piece.
you weren't.  thanks.  how does it feel being here?
i can not believe I am really here.  no kidding.  if you are through work now --
no.  aaron and i go to central america on wednesday -- so I am cramming.
i thought you were incredible in there. i know how much i have to learn.  I would really -- a lot -- appreciate it...if...
'really a lot appreciate it...'
you  make me nervous.  anyway if i can pick your brain --
i can not help you, sorry.  I am not here to teach remedial reporting.
and it has nothing to do with the fact i left your room instead of staying there?
i did not sleep.  they are giving me less and less air time.  they do not think I am at all anchor material.
if we do not get to their camp soon, we will not be able to tape the supplies coming in.
last time paul was sick they gave connie the weekend news instead of me.
you spend too much time -- much too much worrying about that crap...  oh good.
okay.  great line at the end.
did you shoot their boots?
of course.
we can cut back at the end.
to the pan of the supplies boxes --
can you believe it?  i just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups.
hi.
how is it going?
can i buy you dinner sometime soon?
i just got back -- i do not know which end is up.
okay.
jane?
yes.
well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I am going to have to bring you up here to new york.
thanks.  i just wish you would kept the first twenty seconds.
but thanks.
well, the visual with the boots at the end was just perfect.
aaron should be hearing this so i have an extra witness.
well, you always want to give the credit away, do you?
no, i don't.  he happens to deserve the credit.  he is right here.
I will speak to you soon
okay if i watch you tape that interview downstairs?
yeah.
what did he say?
I will never tell.
it is mr. buddy felton?
yes.
that is your full name?
yes.
i might as well ask you the questions on tape.  is that all right?
yes.
you worked at one time as foreign service trainee in the state department.
i was there two years and was promoted on merit nine times.
eventually rising to...
office bimbo.  no, I am sorry.
you are saying the fact that you are gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
i do not like the word gay.
which would you prefer?
ravenous homosexual.
stop the tape, okay.  forget it, ellen.  let's call security and get him out.
they are not really going to call security are they?
no, i do not think so.
how do i get out of here?
follow me.
you talked me into it.
I have been doing some morning show stuff, but mostly radio -- that does not bother me.  I am in no rush for anything.  it is just the snotty attitude, even if i have it coming, it is still...
bad manners.
yes.  that is right.
i know...i mean you did not do anything special for me tonight.  you just had what i think are good manners, decency. and it really makes me want to be nice back and it has nothing to do with any homosexual thing.  honestly.  because i do not know if you have homosexual or not and -- you are not, are you?
no...no.
one's enough.
i really have to go.
okay.  at least let me show my appreciation.  the secretary of labor is going to be indicted on wednesday. for the graft thing he supposedly did before he was appointed.
what?
yes, it is true.  they are going to make it public wednesday but is not it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
yes.  how do you know?
my roommate's very social -- somebody from justice was over and...i always hear things before they happen.  hey, and from now on, so do you.
do you want him all the way to the car?
no stop where he is all besieged.
because...
right there, bobbie.
so he was indicted?
yes.
give it to him -- so we can concentrate.
ah, i do not want any credit.  bobbie and i serve anonymously.
you know, i like tom, because hi...
bobbie, please.
...and the white house is hoping to keep a lid on it for a few days till they figure out what to do.
thanks a lot, buddy.
oh, please.  so they were really impressed with you at work.
not impressed exactly -- but a break in the clouds.
i see the change in you -- i see it.
so he bought this peugeot sedan at a greatly reduced price while he was there in charge of the white house advance team.
how come you are not chasing it down yourself?
look, I am junior man -- and it is your beat.
boy, that is nice...i wish we could all deal with each other like this. I will check it.  anything i can do for you?
this is my first time at the white house. is there any chance to look at where he works and the rest of it?
i did not have the guts to ask when i first came up.  I will get you a great tour.
forgive me, but it really is intoxicating being a news source.
nobody else had it.
i wish it were you giving the story.
that is okay.
what if we just do not tell them anything anymore unless they let you do the story?
no.  really...don't worry about it.
okay.  and look, in the future i can call you when i have news for you. do not feel you have to spend time with me just to get the information.  well, that was not as hard to say as you thought, was it, buddy?
what do you mean?  you are one of the few people in this town i can talk to.
hey, buddy, do not do that anymore.
okay.
I have got another story.
some public official skipped a week on his christmas club?
the house armed service committee has a secret report which says that the general stillwell tank the army has dumped a fortune into plain will not work.  i have it cold, confirmed.  they have five million dollars in this thing already.
billion.
okay, billion...right, of course. they told me i could have any producer i wanted -- and i want you.
one source referred to it as a five billion dollar metal sculpture to ugly to look at and too big to bury.
you write this?
i write for you sometimes.
not because you have to.
yeah, i know, i went back and forth on it.
i liked it.  he is not afraid to be human.
goodbye, paul.
take care, paul.  it takes a certain kind of courage for you to say that in front of the president of the news division.
you think anyone who is proud of the work we do is an ass kisser.
no.  i think anyone who puckers their lips and presses it against his boss' buttocks and then smooches is an ass kisser.
my gosh, and for a while there, i was attracted to you.
this is very awkward.
go ahead -- what?
ummm -- it is dumb dorm stuff but i see tom around you a lot and this is such a small office and I would like to see him outside of work, unless there is some reason for you to mind... in which case i just will not do anything.
god almighty -- whew.  do i mind? why do i mind?  i do mind.  what a shock -- i do not have a right to... i do not think i like him.  i know i do not respect him...so what am i talking about -- what am i saying to you?
you are saying stay away from him.
i can not be.
it is the firs time I have seen you dressed like this.  you look so clean and pretty.
what do you mean clean?
at work there is always this sort of film over you.
well, thumps like me leave appearance to guys like you.
you are great at taking the edge off a good time.
you okay?
yes.  just do not say anything mean for a while.  thanks.
i had the strangest thing happen yesterday.  anne and i have been married what? -- thirty-six years... everything fine -- two days after the promotion came through, i was checking myself in the mirror and she was making a face at me behind my back. so yesterday i looked in the mirror and she was doing it again.
you did not say anything to her?
that is it.  i resign as of now.
stop it.
I will tell you what.  I will stay if tom knows how to spell gaddafi.
tom is not ready for the job you are about to hand him.  not near ready.  not by the longest shot.  aaron's spent six weeks in tripoli, he is interviewed gaddafi -- he reported on the eight-one story.  i think he is essential to do the job we are capable of and i think it is my responsibility to tell you that.
okay, that is your opinion.  i do not agree.
it is not opinion.
you are just absolutely right and I am absolutely wrong?
it must be nice to always believe you know better.  to think you are always the smartest person in the room.
no, it is awful.  oh my, it is awful.
what happened?
I will tell you later -- where you going to watch from?
watch? --
I will come by your place, right after...drink, take pills... love you.
nervous?
excited.
tell george and jessica to try and cover everything without tom having to ask additional questions.
and bobbie says...
did you hear what i just said -- do you have that?  take a breath.
yes.
is everything all right?
yes.  you did not have to come here. it is just that I am going to anchor this special report on this libyan thing...
anchor?
yes, stop!  i wondered if you could find out anything about what is happening.  what is wrong?
i broke up with my roommate -- he was really the magnet for everyone who knew anything.
oh.
look, i can start up with him again if you really...
no.  I am doing fine...look.
good.  he is on the world's longest ego trip, let him take it alone.
hey, okay.  look buddy -- I have got to go to work.
...good-bye then.
I will speak to you.
well, who knows.  just let m tell you what my favorite teacher ever, told me -- 'don't be afraid to be wonderful.'
we are going to george.  say 'the joint chiefs are meeting -- we have george weln at the pentagon'.
george weln is at the pentagon where the attack launched by the lone libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might.
it is aaron.
yes?
i think the pilot that shot down the libyan in 1981 is stationed right here.  maybe you could get him -- and maybe tom should say that our f-14 is one of the hardest planes to fly. they are nicknamed 'tomcats'.
thanks.  the f-14 is one of the most difficult planes to master.  oh, you call them 'tomcats' and in the 70's the first crop had a number of crashes.
me again.  hi.  listen gaddafi does not foam at the mouth or anything.  when you speak to him he is not at all nuts. he seems like a leader -- very impressive, self-control...that's what is so strange.
right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in -- nobody else will have him.
you are welcome.  sow how does it feel to...i know you got to go -- me too.  we are very busy here.
...outlaw nation but strangely those who have interviewed gaddafi find him, in a phrase we like to use in this country, very 'presidential'.
nice, jane.
i had no idea she was this good.
fill for a second.
you are an amazing woman.  what a feeling having you inside my head.
yeah.  it was an unusual place to be.
indescribable -- you knew just when to feed me the next thing, just a split second before i needed it.  there was a rhythm we got into, like great sex.
you have to celebrate with me, do not you?  everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'caps.'
I am going over to aaron's.  maybe I will hoop up with all of you later.  how long do you think you will be there?
jane?
yeah?
I will wait for you till seven.
okay.
well, whatever you think.
i figured out exactly why it is I am so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor...it's because if i do that well, they will pay me more, treat me great and my life will be better.  that is why.
sounds like you may be on to something.
which means I am at their mercy and who wants that?...i'm not going to tell you where this thought led me... anyway, well, why not  tell you? -- it is a happy thing.  in the middle of all this i start to think about something that does nothing but make me feel good and makes immediate sense and that is you ...and I will stop here but, jane, I would give anything if you were two people so i could call up the one who is my friend and tell her about the one I am in i...i do not think i should go any further.  come on -- I will walk you to the corner.
you know you have had a strange day... I would sleep on all these things you have been thinking.
absolutely...you go have a good time... you have some place to go?
yes.
good.
i did not think you would make it.
well, i thought I would check if all of you were still here.  I will just go in and join the gang and you two go on.
there is no gang in there -- we were the last ones.
well, I will go in and have a bite.
jennifer, you want to have another drink?
hey, i know how to have a burger by myself.  i feel like a little solitude.
i sure know that feeling.  terrific work today.
right back to you.
the last time i was with someone we went through this awful mutual disease questionnaire but i guess it beats getting paranoid the next day.  okay, I will go first.  i haven't...
it would never occur to me to worry at all about you.
where is the bathroom?
through the closet.
i converted a bedroom -- this stuff builds up.  wait till you have been doing this sixteen years.
I am not knocking it.  it is a great solution.  not only the storage but you can see everything you have.
jesus, jane.  how long have you been here?
a long time.  i was restless. will you crack my neck?
aaah --  -- ello.  you sure they said the management meeting?  they want me to be at the management meeting.
they are not that dumb, after all.
do you know you are the second woman in network news history to produce?
no, I am not.  I am the fourth. joan richmond.  pauline fredericks got that credit once on a u.n. special and there is susan zirinsky.
come on, I will buy you a drink. there is a big thing over at the italian embassy.
I am not sure I would be good company tonight.
I will be the judge of that.
it is much too soon for you to have this kind of buzz around you.
do i have to stand here in the middle and meet them all?
I will get you through.  move and smile.  and smile and move...
hi, aaron...what's doing?
same old stuff.  I am watching a man who won three overseas press awards pitch an hors d'oeuvre idea.
you want to go out there --  get out of this for a second?
why do not you lead?  I will just follow the flurry you cause.
what did i do to you?
you have made my dreams silly.
how you doing?
great.  network news, washington... i love it.  what do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?
keep it to yourself.
you know the other day i really wanted your reaction to how we did with the libyan report -- i was going to ask but i guess i feel a little intimidated with you.
oh, stop it.
you can not talk about feeling intimidated when you are on top of the world.  it is unseemly.
I am not buying into any of that.  i have a load to learn.  I am not going to act as if...
you have the job you have...
shut up a second...
okay.  pretty petty party, is not it, pal?
i made one rule for myself when this started and i realized i was going to take a lot from you people because of being from sports...
and the rule was...
never to pretend to know more than i did.
can you name all the members of the cabinet?
okay, let's drop it.  i did not mean I would take a test for you -- i mean if that came up in conversation i'd...
we are conversing...oh my, the names of the entire cabinet has slipped my mind.  what are they?
do not name them.  just tell me if you know.
yes, aaron.  i know the names of the cabinet.
okay.
yes.
there are only ten.
you are feeling good, are not you?
I am starting to... we may do the capitols of the states.
fifty, right?
maybe we could just sit here -- talk a little?
okay.  you did not like the party, huh?
too many smart people in one room -- it is not healthy...
I am going to have to do a story from beginning to end on my own.
eventually.  does it have to be right now?
believe me, i would not be doing this unless it was absolutely necessary. i have an idea for something.
what?
i just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
well, what is it?
if i tell you, can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it will not work or is in bad journalistic taste or anything like that?
yes, tom -- i think i can manage.
I am not sure i dialed right -- jane?
jane, yes.  tom?  tom, is that you? is this tom?
yes.
i had to sleep fast so i took two allergy pills to help me...i'm sorry...hey, you called me.
it is not important.
says who?  not important -- ha-ha-ha. i was dreaming -- oh, no -- can not tell -- how embarrassing for me. gosh.
what pills did you take?  you sound more like someone on a general anesthetic.  maybe I would better speak to you tomorrow.
nooo.  is it your story?
no.  are you going to the correspondents' dinner on saturday?
why, you need me for the story?
no.  were you going to you?
uh-huh.
maybe I will get off work.  I would like to go.
oh, good.
we can go together.
so you like me, huh?
i like you as much as i can like anyone who thinks I am an asshole.
I am in a pissy mood.  I am sorry.
what is wrong with it?
nothing.  i think you really blew the lid off nookie.
so what did you think?
it moved me.  i did relate to it -- i really did.  it was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you tear up -- and that might not have been my choice...but it is real and it got me...and i think a lot of the time I am too conservative about that kind of stuff.  okay?
yeah.
oh, i was just writing you a note. what do you say we take a walk?
outside?
yeah --
i do not know if we have any younger man more respected in our operation than you.
just tell me what is really going on.  i think we know each other well enough for me to expect that.
we know each other well enough for me to care how i put something to you which could wipe you out. so i will phrase things the way i think they should be phrased.  all right?
wipe me out?
anyway.  i want you to think of this as...
just blunt talk, okay?  I would really appreciate bluntness.
upper management thinks you are dull.
aaron, I have never seen them like this -- i think paul's nervous about his own job and for some reason he thinks you only appeal to...
wait.  bullshit me a little...i'm beginning to appreciate it.
I am no suggesting the worst will happen...but someone with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs and maybe, the next time that happens, down the road -- you should look into it.
ah, damn -- the fucking jerks -- my, god.  they want to fire me.
all i know is that they have got to fire a large number of people... and they are not going by seniority. there is a recklessness in the air. they...
do one thing to me?  get me one shot at anchoring the weekend news -- they have never seen me do it.  i think it could turn them around.
i could do it this saturday -- everyone wants off for the correspondents' dinner.
do it then.
please prepare carefully.  this could not come at a better time.
prepare what?  you have saturday's news handy?
it is been a while since you read the news -- I will have somebody work with you.  just on superficial performance things.
okay.  i think I would better be alone for a while.
i understand.  I will go with you.
thanks.
this is uncomfortable for me -- because, well, i do not mean it as a knock, but we approach this differently.
we sure do.  i do not mean it as a knock either.  go ahead.  I will just say what i think and you can disregard it if you want.
it just might not work for me because of our different approaches.
wait.
what?
your coat jacket is rising up in back.
i do not like being handled.
sit on it!  now look.
just do not physically...  fantastic tip -- fantastic.
no.  that is not going to tell us anything.  let's get this prompter going.
it is not loaded.
I will find some copy.  be right back.
no.  no.
no?
do not let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that.  you do not want to look shifty, do you?
oh, god, no!
and the left side of your face is the good one.  go again.  and try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence -- punch one idea a story.  punch -- come on --
you were smokin' toward the end there.
the pointers were great.  I will study the tape.
tom...why do not i meet you there? I have got some last minute stuff I have got to take care of...hey, how did you resolve your dilemma -- did you rent the tux or buy it...i knew it. how much?  wow...okay...see you there...
i did not know you were going with him.
did you bring your grey suit?
yes...i was thinking that way too... which tie?
i read about it -- that is how you can make sure you do not put on too much perfume...
could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you -- me showing up while you are getting ready for a date.
it is not a date.  it is co-workers going to a professional conclave.
because this is important -- so do not just be polite.  I would really like to look...what's the word I am looking for?...
as good as humanly possible.
yes.
well, the line of the jacket -- no really....just very nice...just right. i wish i could be there.
me too...hey...if it gets dull a little before 11:00, drop by the studio.
I am not sure I will be able to...i...
if...if not, I will have the tape...i'll wait for you at my apartment.
okay, great -- good luck.
thanks, jane.  have a good time tonight.
you too.
it is incredible who is here.
who?
me!
suppose i go in for a little while and you wait in the lobby-bar.  how is that?
good.  that is it...see you.
you are not going to take off on me, are you?
uh-uh.
you okay?
great.
why can not i let go of this woman?
well...
at least kiss me when you do that.
you just can not stop editing me. huh?
this is hysterical.
i was half hoping i would not have a good time tonight.  you know why?
because you are nuts.
right, right -- is not she fun to tease?
i do not remember saying anything like that -- exactly...i do not know why i just did.
oh let's see -- wait a minute, well, i can think of two reasons.
what?
three...i just thought of a third... if you talk about it, you do not have to do it.
that is not it.
good...another is you are trying to make it all about sex and heat and nothing else.
i forgot all about aaron.  i promised to stop by and see how he did.
I would like to know.  I will go along.
no.  I will see you at your apartment as soon as i can.
what happened?
do not run off --  like everything's settled the minute you make up your mind.
he might be weird -- he can talk more freely if i go alone -- why is that so hard to understand?
it is not that it is hard.  i just want you to give me a minute to catch up.
okay.  sorry.  do not yell at me like that again, you scared the life out of me.
how did it go?
you did not see it or speak to anybody?
no.
then it went well.
did it really go well?
define your terms.
do you feel good about it?
no.
do others feel that you did well?
no.
then what was good about it?
i lost six pounds...
aaron, will you tell me?
it was great...writing my little first rate copy, sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought. but i had this historic attack of flop sweat so they will never let me another again.  oh, i lost one of your shoulder pads -- how was your evening anyway?
what do you mean, flop sweat? -- you are making too much out of it...i'll bet you were the only one aware of it...
people phoned in.
stop kidding.  i want to know what happened.
I am not kidding.
there were complaining phone calls because you were sweating?
no, nice ones worried that i was having a heart attack.
if all that happened, how come you are so chipper?
i do not know.  at a certain point it was so off the chart bad -- it got funny.  my central nervous system was telling me something. jane -- sweat running down my face -- makeup falling into my eyes -- people turning this fusillade of blow dryers on me -- all so i could read introductions to other people who were covering stories which is what i like to do anyway.  and I am chipper because you finally showed up.  i thought I would cook for us. tequila and eggs sound good?
i have to be somewhere.
i told what is his name -- tom -- that I would meet him.
call him -- i mean it can wait, right?
i do not know.  i may be in love with him.
no!!!!!
do not go.
this is important to me.
yeah.  well...i think it is important for you too.  sit down.
what?
let me think a second.  it is tough.
aaach...jane...  let's take the part that has nothing to do with me.  let's let me be your most trusted friend, the one that gets to say awful things to you.  you know?
yes, i guess.  yes.
you can not end up with tom because it goes totally against everything you are about.
yeah -- being a basket case.
i know you care about him.  I have never seen you like this about anyone, so please do not take it wrong when i tell you that i believe that tom, while a very nice guy, is the devil.
this is not friendship.
what do you think the devil is going to look like if he is around?  nobody is going to be taken in if he has a long, red, pointy tail.  no.  I am semi-serious here.  he will look attractive and he will be nice and helpful and he will get a job where he influences a great god-fearing nation and he will never do an evil thing...he will just bit by little bit lower standards where they are important. just coax along flash over substance... just a tiny bit.  and he will talk about all of us really being salesmen.  and he will get all the great women.
i think you are the devil.
no.  you know that I am not.
how?
because we have the kind of relationship where if i were the devil, you would be the only one i told.
you were quick enough to get tom's help when...
yes, yes.  i know.  right.  and if it had gone well for me tonight, maybe I would be keeping quiet about all this...i grant you everything but give me this...he does personify everything you have been fighting against...and I am in love with you.  how do you like that? -- i buried the lead.
I have got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
sit down, stop.
hi.  it is me.
where are you?
i can not get away just yet.  I am at aaron's.
well, when?
I am not sure.  it seems like he had sort of a mishap on the news.
i know.  i taped it.
it was not as bad as he think, was it? -- it was not unprecedented or anything?
not if you count 'singing in the rain.'  do him a favor and do not treat it like a tragedy.  you want me to talk to him?
do not say anything about anything.
hi.  will i ever sing again?
everybody has one like that.  i thought it was great when you started to laugh at the end.
yeah -- well, I am sorry I am tying up jane, i did not realize you two would be going this late.  sorry.
no.  do not worry about it.
I will put her on.
hi, again.  sorry about...
no.  that sounds more important. let's forget about tonight.
i do not know if that is absolutely necessary.
I have got my father coming through tomorrow anyway.  i should get some sleep.
uh-huh.
I will see you at the office.  good night.
hello?
yes.
okay.  good night.
good night??!
jane, I am not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule.
okay, great, grunick -- easy shots now -- huh?  good night.
ernie, they are calling from work.
tell me I am on the way in.
it is paul.
what?
they fired me.
how horrible.  we will be fine.  you will be fine.  stay here with me -- we will go for a drive, have some drinks, make happy plans.
no.  they are firing even more people than they said.  some will want to talk.  it could help.
i could use somebody to talk to on a day like this.  sorry. go ahead.
bye, sweetie.
okay, sweetie.
what are you dressed up for?  oh, that is right -- because the evening news is here this week.
i spent a fortune on this.
just when do you start, telling people?
almost immediately.
I would like to take everyone out after the show.
bill...this is hard on all of us and it is no time for compliments. but i think it is extraordinary of you to come down here for this.
if we are not here for each other during the tough time, we are not a news organization.
this is a brutal layoff...and all because they could not program wednesdays.
you can make it a little less brutal by knocking a million dollars or so off your salary.
i feel terrible about what happened. what did he say?
he -- uh -- said he liked you because you looked like you had -- fire and honesty.
no.  did he really?
yes.  then he said a really weird thing...
what?
that it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better... he gets like that sometimes.
that is so perfectly...it really makes me feel a little faint...  whooo.
they canned me.  well, my brother will feel great -- now he is not the only screw-up.
it is started.
what did they do with you?
they booted me out of washington.
impossible.  there is no system that would not value one of us.
why?  what did they do to you?
it is what he did.  I am proud of him.
they told me they would keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
the cost-efficient reporter.
so i quit.
you packing up tonight?
yes.  and I am sorry that they are sending you down for a while, but you will make it back...where they sending you?
london.
london.  that is a promotion!
i do not think so.
it is.  yes -- that is where they had rorish, for god's sake, before they made him anchor.  i can not stand it -- they are grooming you for it all and you do not even know it.
hold it down, okay?
can i ask you something?  you only had one crew on the date rape piece, right?
yes.  you are not going to stick around for the farewell party?
no.  i do not know how much fun it will be when martin klein and ernie have to drop off their credentials with the security guard.
this story they will not cover.  and if the network does not cover it -- it must not be important so why worry.
I am going to miss you -- you are a prick in a great way...
you know what i...
no, i liked the way it made me sound. okay.  be good.  so long.
maybe i have not been here long enough.  but, hey, congratulations on the promotion.
how can you say that to me?
sorry.  i can not stand here feeing bad that i do not feel worse.  this has happened at every station i ever worked for. look, i think it is crazy for you to come in here tomorrow and start a new job.  i have a week to get to my job.  let's get the hell away to some island fast and find out how we are together away from this.
well, i just think that' an extraordinary proposal.
that is yes?
that is more than 'yes' -- that is 'you bet.'
bastard, sneak, quitter.
speaking.
i just found out.  you did not say anything to me?  you just resign? will you meet me now? -- no, now! I am going away tomorrow.  please.
why not try it for a few weeks?
stop.  ernie thought i was good too -- he could not help.  my agent has a hot prospect -- the number two station in portland.  the general manager says he wants to be every bit as good as the networks.  personally, i think he should aim higher.
tell me the god's honest truth -- are you leaving because of me? because if you are...
ernie told this story.  how he used to write obits and when the people in town called him up with death notices, he cried.  he was till that way when they promoted him out of obits.  he says you are lucky if you can get out while you could still cry.  i should have quit this place  three years ago.
you are just trying to say all great stuff so I will feel even worse that you are not around.
let's go...
i just want to sit here longer, i mean the feeling is powerful -- why is that?
maybe the best part of your life is over and you do not want to get up and start the bad part.
you are now required to sit here with me.  come on...be smart for a second -- what do you think will happen to us?
okay, that is very easy.  five, six years from now I will be in town to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations.
yes.
I will be walking with my wife and two children -- we will bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and I will tell him...  ...it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
you will not be able to stay mad at me, right?
i hope so...  no.  I am not really mad.  I will miss you, we will talk, we will always be friends...we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay?
that is enough.  that is enough.
I am sorry.
are you okay?
yes, I am sorry.
do not be silly.  what are you sorry about?
the way you were looking at me, i just went.
i just need you for another minute now, so we can shoot from behind towards me, and, um...
uh-huh.
...that way we have someplace to go when we cut.  and i just sit here, i nod my head and look nerdy.
then give me a minute...
you fucking...
why?
i saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl.  i know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview.
i felt funny about it afterwards.  it is verboten, huh?  i thought since i did it for real the first time -- but i get you.  that is not the reason you are not coming?
of course it is the reason.  it is terrible what you did.
we disagree on how god-awful it was.  why do not you come with me and we can disagree and get a tan at the same time?
jesus, if you are glib about this I am going to lose it.  i was up all night and...
jane, jane, jane, jane, jane...
it made me ill.  you could get fired for things like that.
i got promoted for things like that.
working up tears for a new piece cutaway...you totally crossed the line between...
it is hard not to cross it; they keep moving the little sucker, do not they?
it just proves that the difference we have are...
this is a one-way argument.  we have got six days; if you go and we fight and we hate it -- we will come home.  if you do not go?  well, that is a much bigger deal.  i go to london right after that. so, it would be very big deal if you stay here.  the plane's boarding.  you are good at deadline.  here's your ticket.
it is amazing.  you commit this incredible breach of ethics and you act as if I am nitpicking.  try and get this.  when you edited that...
I am leaving now.  gate 43.
that is not going to be the way we say good-bye.  even though i think what you did was rotten -- it is not all impersonal.  you mean something to me.
you keep coming after me and looking down on me.  it is starting to make me batty.
i do not wan to discuss work.
well, let's do a special report on that...i mean that is news.
i knew what you meant.
what i do not know, i can learn and what i know, nobody can teach. excuse me for saying it about myself, but i think it is true.  what do you think?  never mind what you think.
you are lucky i came after you so you got that off your...
yes, i am.  thanks.  i mean it.
it is okay.
so you have an extra bathing suit, huh?
you want to come?
it is just that one of the few things I am not confused about is what i was saying downstairs, that...
then you should stay here.
it is better when you let me say it.
take it easy.
why did i have to do this to myself?  watch you take off.  call me if you need anything.
hi.
well, this kid could not possibly belong to anyone else.  what is your name?
I am just bringing him over to give jane a look at him --
i thought she would be here.  I will go with you.
okay.
I will see you back at the hotel.
well, why not?  hey, what is this?  my life's rushing in front of my eyes.
a picnic?
i thought for old cliff here -- look at you?  you are more adorable than your pictures.  look what i got for you.
he excels at gratitude.
are you any closer to a decision?
i think so...they've been talking to me about being tom's managing editor.
really?
I am going to take it.
what a great surprise.  i did not think we had a chance.  i heard you wanted to stay in washington.
well, there is a guy, but he says he will fly up a lot.
well, we should talk.  you going to have time for  dinner?  I would like you to meet lila.
I am sorry because i was looking forward to that, but i' m going back in a few hours.
okay...it's so good to see you.
it is nice to see you.
congratulations on history's longest winning streak.
if you ever get restless in portland, let me know.
why?
so who is the guy?
well, we met about three months ago. he works at the surgeon general office. he loves boating.  so, he is been getting me into water skiing.
i like it!  so, doll, what about you lately?
well -- my wife got this new job...
