where is ebby?
am not he warning up?
no.  the guy's professional debut and he forgets about it.
better find our bonus baby, eh?
number twenty-two's thighs are just great.  who is he?
jose galindo.  he hit .314 at lynchburg last year.
three-fourteen?  hmmm...  look't those thighs, jackson
--millie, you have got to stay out of the clubhouse.  it will just get everybody in trouble.
i got lured.
you did not get "lured".  women never get lured.  they are too strong and powerful for that. now say it--"i did not get lured and i will take responsibility for my actions".
"i did not get lured and i will take responsibility for my actions".
that is better.  got the radar ready?
little high.
c'mon big 'un, you are okay...
ninety-five miles an hour.
he looks great, just great!
take this to ebby in the dugout between innings.
what is it say?
it says he is not bending his back on his follow-through.
well let's get down to it, honey-- how was he?
well, he fucks like he pitches. sorta all over the place
he walked eighteen?!
it is a league record.
struck out eighteen...
league record.  and he hit the radio announcer, a sportswriter, and the bull mascot twice--also league records--  joe, the guy's got some serious shit.
crash davis?
the crash davis. ) and you, larry hockett, should recognize me 'cause five years ago in the texas league when you were pitching for el paso and i was hitting cleanup for shreveport, you hung a curve on an 0-2 pitch of a 3-2 game in bottom of the 8th and i tattooed it over the goodyear tire sign, beat you 4-3-- and i got a free wheel alignment from goodyear.
ohyeah.  i shoulda throwed a slider.  damn, crash, how're ya?
I am joe riggins.  sit down
I am too old for this shit.  why the hell am i back in "a" ball?
'cause of ebby calvin laloosh.  the big club's got a hundred grand in him-
he is got a million dollar arm and a five cent head.
--we had the gun on him tonight-- the last five pitches he threw were faster than the first five. 96 miles an hour, 98, 97, 97. 97.   he is got the best young arm I have seen in 30 years.
but he am not quite sure which plane he is on, y'know what i mean...
you been around, you are smart, you are professional, you know what it takes--  we want you to mature the kid.
we want you to room with him on the road and stay on his case all year.  he can go all the way.
and where can i go?
you can keep going to the ballpark and keep gettin' paid to do it.  beats hell outta working at sears.
sears sucks, crash, i tried it once.  sold lady kenmores--it's nasty, nasty work.
even if it is the carolina league-- this is a chance to play everyday.
I am crash davis.
annie savoy.  wanta dance?
i do not dance.
i do not trust a man who do not dance.  it am not natural.
thanks for the note--you're right, i was not bending my back.
you got a live arm there.
ebby calvin laloosh.
you need a nickname.
that is what i been telling everybody!  wanta dance?
she is dancing with me.
crash, i did not think you--
I will learn.  c'mon--
step outside, pal.
love to--
i do not believe in fighting.
pussy.
take the first shot at me.
i am not hitting a man first.
hit me in the chest with this...
I would kill ya.
from what i hear you could not hit a bull in the ass with a slingshot
do not try me.
throw it.  c'mon, right in the chest.
no way.
c'mon, meat.  you can not hit me 'cause you are starting to think about it already, you are starting to think how embarrassing it will be to miss, how all these people would laugh.  c'mon, rook--show me that million dollar arm 'cause I am getting a good idea about the five cent head--
we fight, she gets the clown-- how is that happen?
shut up--i like this song...  april in paris, this is a feeling, no one can ever reprieve...
she is playing with my mind.
it is a damn easy thing to play with.
well--you boys stopped fighting yet?  are you pals now?  good.  i love a little macho male bonding-- i think it is sweet even if it is probably latent homosexuality being "re-channeled" but i believe in "re-channeling" so who cares, right?  shall we go to my place?
which one of us?
oh both of you, of course...
these are the ground rules.  i hook up with one guy a season-- i mean it takes me a couple of weeks to pick the guy--kinda my own spring training...  and, well, you two are the most promising prospects of the season so far.  so...  i thought we should get to know each other.
why do you get to choose?  why do not i get to choose?
actually none of us on this planet ever really choose each other. it is all quantum physics and molecular attraction.  there are laws we do not understand that bring us together and break us apart.
is somebody gonna go to bed with somebody or what?
you are a regular nuclear meltdown, honey--slow down.
after 12 years in the minor leagues, i do not tryout.  besides-- i do not believe in, quantum physics when it comes to matters of the heart...or loins.
what do you believe in?
i believe in the soul, the cock, the pussy, the small of a woman's back, the hanging curve ball, high fiber, good scotch, long foreplay, show tunes, and that the novels of thomas pynchon are self-indulgent, overrated crap.  i believe that lee harvey oswald acted alone, i believe that there oughtta be a constitutional amendment outlawing astro-turf and the designated hitter, i believe in the "sweet spot", voting every election, soft core pornography, chocolate chip cookies, opening your presents on christmas morning rather than christmas eve, and i believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last for 7 days.
oh my...  do not leave...
g'night.
wait, crash--don't go--all i want is a date.  I am not going to fall in love with you or nothin'.
I am not interested in a woman who is interested in that boy.
I am not interested yet.
who you calling a "boy"?
see ya at the yard, meat.
no ballplayer ever said "no" to a date with me.
well shit, then, let's fuck.
no, no, no.  put it back on and take it off slowly.
jesus, what kinda broad are you?
when you know how to make love, you will know how to pitch.  shh.  i love this part.
no, no, honey...  first the shoes and socks.
the socks?  it is cold in here.
you think dwight gooden leaves his socks on?
sweetie, have you ever heard of walt whitman?
who is he play for?
well, he sort of pitches for the cosmic all-stars.
never heard of 'em.
good--then listen.  "i sing the body electric.  the armies of those i love engirth me and i engirth them--"
we gonna fuck or what?
shh, shh...  "they will not let me off till i go with them, respond to them, and discorrupt them and charge them"
see my hips?
yep.
i think thomas pynchon's a genius.
when you are hitting you should not think about anything but hitting.  but you should not think about it too much.  the trick is to use your brain to not use your brain.
but you were pulling your hips last night.
so...wanta make love?
I am committed to nuke for the season.  you had your chance the other night.
what'you see in that guy--he's dim, pretty boy.  a young, wild,
young men are uncomplicated.  and he is not "dim".  he is just inexperienced.  my job is to give him "life-wisdom" and help him make it to the major leagues.
that is my job too.
damn.
you are pulling your hips out.
but they are nice hips.  i looked up your records-- you have hit 227 home runs in the minors. that is great!
do not tell anybody.
why not?  if you hit twenty homers this year you will be the all time minor league champ!  the record's
247 home runs in the minors would be a dubious honor, if ya think about it.
oh no, i think it would be great! the sporting news should know about it.
no.  please.
damn.
let me.
your place or mine?
despite my love of weird metaphysics and my rejection of most judao-christian ethics, i am, within the framework of a baseball season, monogamous.
fact is you are afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause it might be real so you sabotage it with some bullshit about commitment to a young boy you can boss around--  great deal.  you get to write self- indulgent little poems all winter about how hard it is to find a man even though you just sent him packing-  so what do you really want?  you wanta be a tragic woman figure wallowing in the bullshit of magic?  or do you want a guy?
well, annie, your place or mine?
you got me all confused.
a batter has two tenths of a second to decide whether to swing--
I am not a real batter.  I am a woman.
hey!  what are you guys doing here-- stealing my girl?
now, nuke, would i do a thing like that?  hey kids, this is the great ebby calvin "nuke" laloosh.
you mean nuke.  you said "crash".
i did not say "crash".  i said nuke.
you said "crash".
honey, do not ever listen to a woman when she is making love. they will say the strangest things.
you said "crash".
would you rather me be making love to him, using your name, or making love to you, using his name?
yeah maybe you are right.
you see how nice things are when we go slow?
mmm, hmmm.  you shoulda seen how many people came to the airport to see me off.  when i got drafted first it was the happiest day of my father's life.  he likes baseball more than i do...
you can learn to like it.
i wanted to be the host of dance fever, somethin' like that...
y'know if you make it to the bigs you could still become the host of dance fever.  baseball's a good stepping stone for things like that.
god, i never thought of that.
there is a lot of things you never thought of, sweetie--now get some rest for tonight's game.
drive off your back leg.  you pitch with your legs as much as your arms-
i thought i was--
do not think.
what is that?
chicken bone cross take the curse off this bat and bring me hits.
you a god damn witch?
yes.  a switch hitting witch. very common in puerto rico.
will that work for me?
if you believe in voodoo.
I am 0 for 16!  gimme some of that shit.
no, that is not belief.  that is desperation.
c'mon, god damn it, gimme some!
fun?  what is he know about fun?  why is he calling for a curveball? i wanta bring heat.
shake off the pitch.  throw what you wanta.
why you shaking me off?
i wanta throw the heater to announce my presence with authority.
"to announce your fucking presence with authority"?  this guy's a first ball fastball hitter.  he is looking for heat.
but he am not seen my heat--
awright, meat, give him your heat.
fastball.
why is he always call me "meat"? I am the guy driving a porsche.
guy hit the shit outta that one, eh?
well, i held it like an egg.
an' he scrambled the son of a bitch.  having fun yet?
I am having a blast.  god, that sucker teed off on it just like he knew i was going to throw a fastball.
he did know.
how?
i told him.
oh dear....easy honey...
ninety-five miles an hour...
i do not know.  i have not caught anything yet.
what are you thinking about out here, nuke?
you guys lollygag the ball around the infield, ya lollygag you're- way to first, ya lollygag in an' outta the dugout.  you know what that makes ya  lollygaggers.  what is our record, larry?
we are eight and sixteen.
eight and sixteen?!  how did we ever win eight?  jose, what is this sign?
i want you to wear these on the road trip when you pitch.
what?
they will fit snugly against your balls in such a wonderful way that you will start seeing things differently--plus they will remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
jesus, annie, i do not know--
you have been pitching out of the wrong side of your brain.  these'll help move things to the right side.
big league pitchers do not use these.
they did when they were in the carolina league.
oh she may get wooly, women do get wooly, because of all the stress...
gimme that.
how come you do not like me?
'cause you do not respect yourself, which is your problem, but you do not respect the game--and that is my problem.  you got a gift.
what do i got?
a gift.  when you were a baby the gods reached down and turned your left arm into a thunderbolt.
you got a hall of fame arm but you are pissing it away.
i am not pissing nothing away--i got a porsche already.  a 944 with a.c. and a quadraphonic blaupunkt.
you do not need a quadraphonic blaupunkt--you need a curve ball.  in the show, everybody can hit the fastball.
you been in the majors?
yep.
you could be one of those guys-- but you do not give a fuck, meat.
god damn it I am sick of you calling me "meat"!  you wanta step outside!
this is from tony for the rainout. c'mon, man, let's go to the party.
naw...
"naw"?  there is ice skaters coming! you ever made love to an ice skater?
by the dozen.  holiday on ice, ice capades, ice follies--  I am through with one night stands.
you are through with one night stands?!  what do you want?
i just wanta play everyday despite small nagging injuries--and go home to a woman who appreciates how full of crap i truly am.
you are weird, man--i want a ice skater real bad.
go for it.
if i get laid, you will not tell annie?
i will not have to.
party without me.
god--what a big league move.
eight and twenty-four.
eight and twenty-four!  how did we ever win 8 games?
it is a miracle.
look, guys--i'm a man, i got needs too.  i understand this party-- but...  sex is the one thing you can get further behind in and catch up faster than anything i know.  there is a baseball lesson in there somewhere.  where is crash?
can i ask you something?
what?
what would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
if he had a good breaking ball, I would respect the shit outta him.
i was playing naked.
i know, i know--i have that dream all the time.  we are almost home.
god I am tired.  what a trip i was lousy.  i was worse than lousy. everytime i pitched--it was like throwing gasoline on a fire. kaboom.  i--
what is this "i, i, i" stuff? you only talk about yourself? are not you glad to see me?  do not i look nice?
sorry.  you look great.  I am totally exhausted.
good.  total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous.  let's play catch.
catch?
hum, babe, hum, babe, fire it in here, hum babe--
that is not necessary, jackson---  okay, nuke, now lean in for the sign.
this in ridiculous.  I am a pro.
just do what i say.  now, which nostril are you breathing through?
which nostril am i breathing through?
the right nostril.  good.
my right nostril?
there are two important psychic conduits called the "pingala" and the "ida".  the pingala starts with the left testicle  and ends at the right nostril.
the ida originates at the right testicle and terminates at the left nostril.
I am really beat.  i need some serious "z's"--
the pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball.  and if you discover before a game you are in the wrong nostril, it is easy to switch.
switch nostrils?
right.  okay, fire a couple in there.
you are patronizing me!  i will not be patronized--
if i throw too hard I will hurt the kid.
he is handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and six.
how was that?
a little better.
gimme the god damn ball!
how ya like that?
much better.  your delivery was fully integrated because you were not thinking about it 'cause you were pissed off at me.  this is progress.
i can not keep up with you.  first you say sex is going to make me a better pitcher--now no sex is going to do it?!
it is all the same thing.
god...i think I am going to be sick--
oh do not be silly.  death is nothing to be scared of.  it is just another way of living.  it is just a fresh start--kinda like spring training.
death is like spring training?
yes.  and so is birth.  now look me in the eyes, nuke--  you have not been wearing my panties, have you?
annie says her panties will keep one side of my brain occupied while I am on the mound, thus keeping my brain slightly off center, which is where it should be for artists and pitchers.  she also said i should throw whatever pitches you call for.
annie's a smart lady.
patkin was a tribute to baseball...
...and one helluva guy.
ninety-three miles an hour.
he looks wonderful, jackson...
jesus--what's got into nuke?
i heard he is wearing women's underwear--and he is breathing through his pingala nostril.
I am getting too old for this game.
i was great, eh?
your fastball was up and your curveball was hanging--in the show they woulda ripped you.
can not you let me enjoy the moment?
the moment's over.  if this guy starts me off with a breaking ball, I am going downtown--
hey, I am cruisin', man--what're you doing out here?!
i want you to throw this one at the bat rack.
why?!  I am finally throwin' the damn thing where i want to.
it will keep the fear of god in the hitters.  trust me.
you are the boss.
oh no--he's shaking off the sign, jackson.  big mistake...
he will learn.
you told him i was throwing a deuce, right?
yep.  he really crushed that dinger, did not he.  musta gone 450 feet...damn...
I am yours.
y'know, annie, i been thinking if it works for one game, maybe it will work for a whole buncha games.
breathing through your pingala always works, honey--
not that.  i mean the re-channeling of my sexual energy.  maybe we should not make love for awhile.
now do not go overboard, i look incredibly hot, right?
you know what it feels like to throw a three hitter?  we better not fuck.
nuke?!
just till i lose.
get over here.
no.
ebby calvin "nuke" laloosh--
i love winning, crash, you hear me?  i love it.  teach me everything.
it is time you started working on your interviews.
what do i gotta do?
learn your cliches.  study them. know them.  they are your friends.
write this down.  "we got to play 'em one day at a time."
boring.
of course.  that is the point.  "i'm just happy to be here and hope i can help the ballclub."
jesus.
write, write--"i just wanta give it my best shot and, good lord willing, things'll work out."
"...good lord willing, things'll work out."
yep.  so how is annie?
she is getting steamed 'cause I am still re-channeling my sexual energy--maybe i should cave in and sleep with her once just to calm her down.  what'ya think?
you outta your mind?  if you give in now you might start losing.  never fuck with a winning streak.
hi, jimmy.  want a ride?
have you accepted jesus christ as your personal savior?
no.
can i give you my testimony?
you can do anything you want.  hop in.
I am so proud of you and all the guys.  want some more soup?
no, no, it was great.
how 'bout a back rub?
no, that is okay.  all i need's a little nap.
I will tuck you in.
you can not seduce me.
I am not going to try to seduce you, sweetie...
that is my leg.
i know what it is.
i figure we could work on some fundamentals even if we do not make love.
fundamentals?
sure.  unsnap my stockings.
crash once called a woman's, uh-- pussy--y'know how the hair kinda makes a "v" shape?--
yes i do...
well--he calls it the bermuda triangle.  he said a man can get lost in there and never be heard from again.
what a nasty thing to say.
he did not mean it nasty.  he said that gettin' lost and disappearing from the face of the earth was sometimes a good thing to do-- especially like that.
oh...  crash is a very smart man.  now c'mon, honey, give it a try.
no!  you are playing with my mind!
I am trying to play with your body!
i knew it--you're seducing me!
of course I am seducing you for godsakes, and I am doing a damn poor job of it--  are not i pretty?
i think you are real cute.
cute?!  i hate cute!  baby ducks are cute!  i wanta be exotic and mysterious!
you are exotic and mysterious and cute--that's why i better leave.
nuke!  you got things all wrong! there is no relation between sex and baseball.  ask crash.
i did.
what did he say?
he said if i gave in to you I would start losing again.
he did?
I will be back when we lose.
crash...i want you.
nuke will not go to bed with you, eh?
he' s confused--
are not we all?
do not you think I am pretty?
you are gorgeous, god damn it! from the moment i first saw you i knew i had to have you.  i had to have you!
i want to be had.
i think of you and the "boy" all the time.
he will not make love to me anymore.
and he is right!  a ballplayer on a streak has to respect the streak. they do not happen very often.  you know how hard this game is? if you believe you are playing well because you are getting laid or because you are not getting laid or because you wore red silk panties--then you are!  and i still think thomas pynchon is full of shit.
i want you desperately!
who are you?  do you have a job?
i teach part time at the junior college.  what if i told you i was through with nuke?  he learned his lessons quickly and left me.
and now you wanta teach me?
i do not imagine there is much i could teach you.
i doubt that.
crash, i get wet just thinking about you.
i thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
I am ready for a complicated man.
--and as soon as we lose a game, he will be back in your arms.
i said when i think about you, i get wet.
annie, i think you should leave.
god damn you--what is happening? is there no man who will have me?  this is the weirdest season i ever saw--the durham bulls can not lose and i can not get laid!
you okay?
why baseball?
i was raised in a baptist church got dipped in the water when i was 5-- born again before kindergarten...by the time i was 10 i knew it was bullshit and at 15 i ran away from home...
i crossed the street--it was the new york yankees spring training field--tok, tok, tok, was the sound of a ball hitting a bat-- and i sat in the warm bleachers to think about my mother...  and i saw him.
who?
thurman munson.  he was covered with dirt and he was fighting with everybody--it was beautiful ...  and he called the ump a cocksucker and got thrown out of the game even though it was an exhibition!  so i stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what is so great about baseball.
what is so great about baseball?
if you know where home plate is, then you know where 1st base is, and 2nd, and everything else-- 'cause they are always in the same place in relation to home.  do not you see?  if you know where home plate is, then you know where everything else in the universe is!
i do not know if I would go that far.
it is true, it is true!  least it used to be true.  it am not possible that baseball's not enough anymore, is it, crash?
it is possible.
no.
are you going to be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you are 60?
well...i used to think that was not the worst thing in the world to look forward to.  lately I am not so sure.
why not?
whatta you mean "why not"?  are you gonna play forever?!
well tell 'em, honey.
we are getting married.
omigawd, honey, I am so happy for you.
he is a virgin.
nuke's overthrowing tonight, he do not look loose.  anything bothering him?
he said his chakras were jammed and he was breathing out of the wrong nostril.
okay...
what is wrong?
I am nervous--my old man's here.
anybody says anything bad about millie, I will break his neck.
hey, guys, i got a game to pitch.
what the hell's going on out there?
it is a damn convention.
check it out.
you should be at the game.
no, no--i'm fine.  millie, how much time did you and jimmy spend together before he proposed?
five hours.  we both just know.  do you think i deserve to wear white?
we all deserve to wear white.
i got him on the knee!
you missed him!
god damn it, jack, he still am not touched the plate.
do not bump me.
it was a cocksucking call!
did you call me a cocksucker?
no!  i said it was a cock-sucking call and you can not run me for that!
you missed the tag!
you spit on me!
i did not spit on you!
you are in the wrong business, jack--you're sears-roebuck material!
you are close, crash, you want me to run you?  I will run you!
you want me to call you a cocksucker?!
try it!  go ahead.  call me a cocksucker!
beg me!
call me a cocksucker and you are outta here!
beg me again!
call me a cocksucker and you are outta here!
you are a cocksucker!
you are outta here!
we lost.
it is okay..
I would like you to meet my father.
oh--won't you come in?
ebby's told me a lot about you.
uh oh...  can i offer you some coffee?
he is a good student.
we were worried that ebby might get involved with the wrong crowd in professional baseball--we're so pleased, he met a christian woman.
praise the lord, eh?
i could not dump my old man but maybe later i can sneak away from him...
you do not have to...
I am starting to understand what you are teaching me.  i mean the panties and the nostrils and all that shit...i mean I am getting it--
so am i.  nuke, honey, we need to talk--
aw hell, let's have a quickie right here--
--but you are father's in there!
crash says i got to quit worrying about him--c'mon, honey, we got a lotta catching up to do--
it is skip, for you.
yeah, skip, it is me.  jeez...jeez...god...jeez...
let's have a quick word of prayer, right here, to thank the lord for all this--
oh let's not...
i gotta leave first thing in the morning.
that is great!
how can i possibly thank you?
god bless you.
she will, mr.  laloosh, she will ...
crash am not there.  he never gets back till four or five--
where does he go?
well, I would rather not say.
they called me up to the show and i wanta tell crash goodbye.
goddamn, that is great!  jesus!  listen, crash do not like anybody to know it but--  most nights he goes down to, you know, down to niggertown.  to sandy's...  the whorehouse.
he goes to a whorehouse every night?
do not tell him i told you--he'd break my neck.
what'you want, kid?
jim looking for somebody.
who ain't?
looking for crash davis.
am not here.
I am nuke laloosh.  with the bulls.
your breaking ball's getting better but ya need a change up.
club's expanding its roster to finish the season--
shut up.  I am playing.  oh you will not regret it, young girls do not forget it, lost in their own wilderness ...  but it is all so easy--just try a little tenderness...
I am going to the show.
then go.
I am trying to thank you.
let go of me!
settle what?
c ' mon!
i do not wanta fight you, i wanta thank you.  let's have a drink and forget this--
god damn it, you fucking virgin prick--step outside.
c'mon, we got nothin' to fight about.
you fuck!
why am i a fuck?
why are you a fuck?  'cause you got talent.  i got brains.  but you got talent! you are god damn left arm is worth a million dollars a year.  all my limbs put together are worth 7 cents a pound--and that is for science and dog meat.
you are a great catcher.
come over here into the light so i can kick your ass.
no.
okay, I will kick your ass there.
I will take you back to the hotel.
you know what the difference is between hitting .250 and hitting .300?  1 got it figured out.  twenty-five hits a year in 500 at bats is 50 points.  okay?  there is 6 months in a season, that is about 25 weeks--you get one extra flare a week--just one--a gork, a ground ball with eyes, a dying quail-- just one more dying quail a week and you are in yankee stadium!
nuke...tell me something.  did you hit me with your right or your left?
my right.
good.  good.  that is terrific...
what?
if ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand.  ya might get injured.  that is another lesson for ya--now quit fucking around and help me up.
sorry about last night.
forget it.
i have been known, on occasion, to howl at the moon.  d'you understand that?
no.
you will.  look, nuke--these big league hitters are going to light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile-- do not worry about it.  be cocky and arrogant even when you are getting beat.  that is the secret.  you got to play this game with fear and arrogance.
fear and ignorance.
no.  fear and arrogance, you, hayseed, not ignorance!
i know.  i just like to see you get all worked up.
well, i got annie all warmed up for ya...  she is just waiting for you to show up, y'know...
i do not need a crazy woman in my life.
maybe you do.  y'know I am starting to like this game--baseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
it is the best, nuke...the absolute fucking best.
yeah, thanks for everything.
nuke--  good luck.
you too...meat.
well i guess this is it.
i will not be needing these anymore.
neither will i.
i think I am ready for the show.
ebby calvin nuke laloosh--don't think too much.
do not worry.
i gotta go now, dad.
i was thinking i could fly up and spend a week in the big leagues with you--help you get comfortable.
no.  if i screw up, i wanta do it alone.  I will call.
we will be praying for you.
dad--if my curveball is hanging, god am not going to help me.
we will pray anyway.
if it makes you and mom feel better, go for it.  i gotta run--
yeah, skip, you wanted to see me?
crash, shut the door.
the organization wants to make a change...now that nuke's gone they wanta bring up some young catcher...
some kid hittin' .300 in lynchburg ...probably a bust.
i put in a word for you with the organization--told 'em i thought you would make a fine minor league manager someday...might be an opening at salem next year--
i got released.
i heard already.
...  so you see in a former lifetime I am sure that i was alexandria, the czarette of russia? what do you think?
how come in former lifetimes, everybody was someone famous?  how come nobody ever says they were joe schmo?
it does not work like that.  god, you are gorgeous.  want to dance?
what happened?
i quit.  hit my dinger and hung 'em up.
I am quitting too.  boys, not baseball.
there  might be an opening for a manager at salem next spring.
salem, massachusetts?  where all the witches were?
yeah...you a witch?
not yet.  it takes years of practice...
you think i could make it to the show as a manager?
you would be great, just great...  'cause you understand non-linear thinking even though it seems like baseball is a linear game 'cause of the lines and the box scores an'  all--but the fact is that there is a spacious-"non-time kind of time" to it...
annie---
what?
i got a lotta time to hear your theories and i wanta hear every damn one of 'em...but right now I am tired and i do not wanta think about baseball and i do not wanta think about quantum physics...  i do not wanta think about nothing...  i just wanta be.
i can do that, too.
