unoccupied france welcomes you to casablanca.
thank you, captain. it is very good to be here.
major strasser, my aide, lieutenant casselle.
you may find the climate of casablanca a trifle warm, major.
oh, we germans must get used to all climates, from russia to the sahara. but perhaps you were not referring to the weather.
what else, my dear major?
by the way, the murder of the couriers, what has been done?
realizing the importance of the case, my men are rounding up twice the usual number of suspects.
oh, there is no hurry. tonight he will be at rick's. everybody comes to rick's.
i have already heard about this cafe, and also about mr. rick himself.
uh, excuse me, please. hello, rick.
hello ugarte.
huh. you know, rick, watching you just now with the deutsches bank, one would think you would been doing this all your life.
well, what makes you think i haven't?
oh, nothing. but when you first came to casablanca, i thought --
-- you thought what?
may i? too bad about those two german couriers, was not it?
they got a lucky break. yesterday they were just two german clerks. today they are the 'honored dead'.
you are a very cynical person, rick, if you will forgive me for saying so.
thank you.  will you have a drink with me please?
no.
i forgot. you never drink with...  I will have another, please.  you despise me, do not you?
if i gave you any thought, i probably would.
but why? oh, you object to the kind of business i do, huh? but think of all those poor refugees who must rot in this place if i did not help them. that is not so bad. through ways of my own i provide them with exit visas.
for a price, ugarte, for a price.
but think of all the poor devils who cannot meet renault's price. i get it for them for half. is that so parasitic?
i do not mind a parasite. i object to a cut-rate one.
well, rick, after tonight I will be through with the whole business, and i am leaving finally this casablanca.
who did you bribe for your visa? renault or yourself?
myself. i found myself much more reasonable.
one moment. tonight I will be selling those for more money than even i have ever dreamed of, and then, addio casablanca! you know, rick, i have many friends in casablanca, but somehow, just because you despise me you are the only one i trust. will you keep these for me? please.
for how long?
perhaps an hour, perhaps a little longer.
i do not want them here overnight.
do not be afraid of that. please keep them for me. thank you. i knew i could trust you.
hello, rick.
hello, ferrari. how is business at the blue parrot?
fine, but i would like to buy your cafe.
it is not for sale.
you have not heard my offer.
it is not for sale at any price.
what do you want for sam?
i do not buy or sell human beings.
that is too bad. that is casablanca's leading commodity. in refugees alone we could make a fortune if you would work with me through the black market.
suppose you run your business and let me run mine.
suppose we ask sam. maybe he would like to make a change.
suppose we do.
my dear rick, when will you realize that in this world today isolationism is no longer a practical policy?
sam, ferrari wants you to work for him at the blue parrot.
i like it fine here.
he will double what i pay you.
yeah, but i am not got time to spend the money i make here.
sorry.
where were you last night?
that is so long ago, i do not remember.
will i see you tonight?
i never make plans that far ahead.
give me another.
sacha, she is had enough.
do not listen to him, sacha. fill it up.
rick, I am sick and tired of having you --
-- sacha, call a cab.
come on, we are going to get your coat.
take your hands off me!
hello, louis.
how extravagant you are, throwing away women like that. someday they may be scarce.
you know, i think now i shall pay a call on yvonne, maybe get her on the rebound, eh?
when it comes to women, you are a true democrat.
the plane to lisbon.  you would like to be on it?
why? what is in lisbon?
the clipper to america.
it was a combination of all three.
and what in heaven's name brought you to casablanca?
my health. i came to casablanca for the waters.
waters? what waters? we are in the desert.
i was misinformed.
huh!
excuse me, monsieur rick, but a gentleman inside has won twenty thousand francs. the cashier would like some money.
well, I will get it from the safe.
i am so upset, monsieur rick. you know i can not understand --
-- forget it, emil. mistakes like that happen all the time.
I am awfully sorry.
rick, there is going to be some excitement here tonight. we are going to make an arrest in your cafe.
what, again?
this is no ordinary arrest. a murderer, no less.
if you are thinking of warning him, do not put yourself out. he cannot possibly escape.
i stick my neck out for nobody.
a wise foreign policy.
you know, rick, we could have made this arrest earlier in the evening at the blue parrot, but out of my high regard for you we are staging it here. it will amuse your customers.
our entertainment is enough.
i see. and what is strasser doing here? he certainly did not come all the way to casablanca to witness a demonstration of your efficiency.
perhaps not.
here you are.
it shall not happen again, monsieur.
that is all right.
how observant you are. as a matter of fact, i wanted to give you a word of advice.
yeah? have a brandy?
thank you. rick, there are many exit visas sold in this cafe, but we know that you have never sold one. that is the reason we permit you to remain open.
i thought it was because we let you win at roulette.
that is another reason. there is a man who is arrived in casablanca on his way to america. he will offer a fortune to anyone who will furnish him with an exit visa.
yeah? what is his name?
victor laszlo.
victor laszlo?
rick, that is the first time i have ever seen you so impressed.
well, he is succeeded in impressing half the world.
it is my duty to see that he does not impress the other half. rick, laszlo must never reach america. he stays in casablanca.
it will be interesting to see how he manages.
manages what?
his escape.
oh, but i just told you. --
-- stop it. he escaped from a concentration camp and the nazis have been chasing him all over europe.
this is the end of the chase.
twenty thousand francs says it isn't.
is that a serious offer?
i just paid out twenty. I would like to get it back.
make it ten. i am only a poor corrupt official.
okay.
done. no matter how clever he is, he still needs an exit visa, or i should say, two.
why two?
he is traveling with a lady.
he will take one.
i think not. i have seen the lady. and if he did not leave her in marseilles, or in oran, he certainly will not leave her in casablanca.
maybe he is not quite as romantic as you are.
it does not matter. there is no exit visa for him.
louis, whatever gave you the impression that i might be interested in helping laszlo escape?
because, my dear ricky, i suspect that under that cynical shell you are at heart a sentimentalist.
oh, laugh if you will, but i happen to be familiar with your record. let me point out just two items. in 1935 you ran guns to ethiopia. in 1936, you fought in spain on the loyalist side.
and got well paid for it on both occasions.
the winning side would have paid you much better.
maybe. well, it seems you are determined to keep laszlo here.
i have my orders.
oh, i see. gestapo spank.
yeah, you were saying?
excuse me.
good evening, gentlemen.
good evening, captain.
thank you. it is a pleasure to have you here, major.
champagne and a tin of caviar.
may i recommend veuve cliquot '26, a good french wine.
thank you.
especially so tonight, major. in a few minutes you will see the arrest of the man who murdered your couriers.
i expected no less, captain.
rick! rick, help me!
do not be a fool. you can not get away.
rick, hide me. do something! you must help me, rick. do something!
rick, this is major heinrich strasser of the third reich.
how do you do, mr. rick?
oh, how do you do?
and you already know herr heinze of the third reich.
you repeat "third reich" as though you expected there to be others.
well, personally, major, i will take what comes.
do you mind if i ask you a few questions? unofficially, of course.
make it official, if you like.
what is your nationality?
I am a drunkard.
that makes rick a citizen of the world.
i was born in new york city if that will help you any.
i understand you came here from paris at the time of the occupation.
there seems to be no secret about that.
are you one of those people who cannot imagine the germans in their beloved paris?
it is not particularly my beloved paris.
ho, diplomatist!
how about new york?
well, there are certain sections of new york, major, that i would not advise you to try to invade.
aha. who do you think will win the war?
i have not the slightest idea.
rick is completely neutral about everything. and that takes in the field of women, too.
you were not always so carefully neutral. we have a complete dossier on you.
are my eyes really brown?
you will forgive my curiosity, mr. blaine. the point is, an enemy of the reich has come to casablanca and we are checking up on anybody who can be of any help to us.
my interest in whether victor laszlo stays or goes is purely a sporting one.
in this case, you have no sympathy for the fox, huh?
not particularly. i understand the point of view of the hound, too.
victor laszlo published the foulest lies in the prague newspapers until the very day we marched in, and even after that he continued to print scandal sheets in a cellar.
of course, one must admit he has great courage.
i admit he is very clever. three times he slipped through our fingers. in paris he continued his activities. we intend not to let it happen again.
you will excuse me, gentlemen. your business is politics. mine is running a saloon.
good evening, mr. blaine.
you see, major, you have nothing to worry about rick.
perhaps.
victor, i, i feel somehow we should not stay here.
if we would walk out so soon, it would only call attention to us. perhaps ugarte's in some other part of the cafe.
excuse me, but you look like a couple who are on their way to america.
well?
you will find a market there for this ring. i am forced to sell it at a great sacrifice.
thank you, but i hardly think --
-- then perhaps for the lady. the ring is quite unique.
good.
what is your name?
berger, norwegian, and at your service, sir.
such a bargain. but that is your decision?
I am sorry. it is.
monsieur laszlo, is it not?
yes.
i am captain renault, prefect of police.
yes. what is it you want?
merely to welcome you to casablanca and wish you a pleasant stay. it is not often we have so distinguished a visitor.
thank you. i hope you will forgive me, captain, but the present french administration has not always been so cordial. may i present miss ilsa lund?
i was informed you were the most beautiful woman ever to visit casablanca. that was a gross understatement.
you are very kind.
will not you join us?
no, captain, please.
no. please, monsieur, it is a little game we play. they put it on the bill, i tear the bill up. it is very convenient.
captain, the boy who is playing the piano, somewhere i have seen him.
sam?
yes.
he came from paris with rick.
rick? who is he?
mademoiselle, you are in rick's and rick is --
-- is what?
well, mademoiselle, he is the kind of a man that, well, if i were a woman and i...  were not around, i should be in love with rick. but what a fool i am talking to a beautiful woman about another man.
I am sure you will excuse me if i am not gracious, but you see, major strasser, I am a czechoslovakian.
you were a czechoslovakian. now you are a subject of the german reich!
I have never accepted that privilege, and I am now on french soil.
i should like to discuss some matters arising from your presence on french soil.
this is hardly the time or the place.
then we shall state another time and another place. tomorrow at ten in the prefect's office, with mademoiselle.
captain renault, i am under your authority. is it your order that we come to your office?
let us say that it is my request. that is a much more pleasant word.
very well.
mademoiselle.
mademoiselle.
this time they really mean to stop me.
victor, I am afraid for you.
we have been in difficult places before, have not we?
i must find out what berger knows.
be careful.
i will, do not worry.
mr. berger, the ring, could i see it again?
yes, monsieur.
a champagne cocktail, please.
i recognize you from the news photographs, monsieur laszlo.
in a concentration camp, one is apt to lose a little weight.
we read five times that you were killed in five different places.
as you see, it was true every single time. thank heaven i found you, berger. i am looking for a man by the name of ugarte. he is supposed to help me.
i see.
but we who are still free will do all we can. we are organized, monsieur, underground like everywhere else. tomorrow night there is a meeting at the caverne du bois. if you would come...
my bill.
no. two champagne cocktails, please.
hello, sam.
hello, miss ilsa. i never expected to see you again.
it is been a long time.
yes, ma'am. a lot of water under the bridge.
some of the old songs, sam.
yes, ma'am.
where is rick?
i do not know. i am not seen him all night.
when will he be back?
not tonight no more. he am not coming. uh, he went home.
does he always leave so early?
oh, he never... well...  he is got a girl up at the blue parrot. he goes up there all the time.
you used to be a much better liar, sam.
leave him alone, miss ilsa. you are bad luck to him.
play it once, sam, for old time's sake.
i do not know what you mean, miss ilsa.
play it, sam. play "as time goes by."
oh i can not remember it, miss ilsa. I am a little rusty on it.
well, you were asking about rick and here he is. mademoiselle, may i present --
-- hello, ilsa.
hello, rick.
oh, you have already met rick, mademoiselle?
well then, perhaps you also ---
-- this is mr. laszlo.
how do you do?
how do you do?
one hears a great deal about rick in casablanca.
and about victor laszlo everywhere.
will not you join us for a drink?
oh, no, rick never --
-- thanks. i will.
well! a precedent is being broken. er, emil!
this is a very interesting cafe. i congratulate you.
and i congratulate you.
what for?
your work.
thank you. i try.
we all try. you succeed.
i can not get over you two. she was asking about you earlier, rick, in a way that made me extremely jealous.
i was not sure you were the same. let's see, the last time we met --
-- it was "la belle aurore."
how nice. you remembered. but of course, that was the day the germans marched into paris.
not an easy day to forget.
no.
i remember every detail. the germans wore gray, you wore blue.
yes. i put that dress away. when the germans march out, I will wear it again.
ricky, you are becoming quite human. i suppose we have to thank you for that, mademoiselle.
ilsa, i do not wish to be the one to say it, but it is late.
so it is. and we have a curfew here in casablanca. it would never do for the chief of police to be found drinking after hours and have to fine himself.
i hope we did not overstay our welcome.
not at all.
oh, it is my party.
another precedent gone. this has been a very interesting evening. I will call you a cab. gasoline rationing, time of night.
we will come again.
any time.
say goodnight to sam for me.
i will.
there is still nobody in the world who can play "as time goes by" like sam.
he has not played it in a long time.
goodnight.
goodnight.
tomorrow at ten at the prefect's office.
we will be there.
goodnight.
goodnight.
goodnight.
boss!
yeah?
boss, am not you going to bed?
not right now.
am not you planning on going to bed in the near future?
no.
you ever going to bed?
no.
well, i am not sleepy either.
good. then have a drink.
no. not me, boss.
then do not have a drink.
boss, let's get out of here.
no, sir. I am waiting for a lady.
please, boss, let's go. am not nothing but trouble for you here.
she is coming back. i know she is coming back.
we will take the car and drive all night. we will get drunk. we will go fishing and stay away until she is gone.
shut up and go home, will you?
no, sir. I am staying right here.
they grab ugarte and she walks in. well, that is the way it goes. one in, one out. sam?
yeah, boss?
sam, if it is december 1941 in casablanca, what time is it in new york?
uh, my watch stopped.
i bet they are asleep in new york. I will bet they are asleep all over america.
what is that you are playing?
just a little something of my own.
well, stop it. you know what i want to hear.
no, i don't.
you played it for her and you can play it for me.
well, i do not think i can remember it.
if she can stand it, i can. play it!
yes, boss.
who are you really? and what were you before? what did you do and what did you think? huh?
we said "no questions."
here's looking at you, kid.
a franc for your thoughts.
in america they would bring only a penny. i guess that is about all they are worth.
I am willing to be overcharged. tell me.
and i was wondering.
yes?
why I am so lucky. why i should find you waiting for me to come along.
why there is no other man in my life?
uh huh.
that is easy. there was. he is dead.
I am sorry for asking. i forgot we said "no questions."
well, only one answer can take care of all our questions.
richard, they will find out your record. it will not be safe for you here.
I am on their blacklist already, their roll of honor.
this sort of takes the sting out of being occupied, does not it, mr. richard?
you said it!  here's looking at you, kid.
my german's a little rusty.
it is the gestapo. they say they expect to be in paris tomorrow.
with the whole world crumbling, we pick this time to fall in love.
yeah. it is pretty bad timing. where were you, say, ten years ago?
ten years ago? let's see...  ...yes. i was having a brace put on my teeth. where were you?
looking for a job.
was that cannon fire, or is it my heart pounding?
ah, that is the new german 77. and judging by the sound, only about thirty-five miles away.
and getting closer every minute. here. drink up. we will never finish the other three.
the germans'll be here pretty soon now, and they will come looking for you. and do not forget there is a price on your head.
strange. i know so very little about you.
i know very little about you, just the fact that you had your teeth straightened.
but be serious, darling. you are in danger and you must leave paris.
no, no, no, no. we must leave.
yes, of course, we --
-- the train for marseilles leaves at five o'clock. I will pick you up at your hotel at four-thirty.
no, no. not at my hotel. i, uh, i have things to do in the city before i leave. I will meet you at the station, huh?
all right. at a quarter to five.  say, why do not we get married in marseilles?
that is too far ahead to plan.
yes, i guess it is a little too far ahead. well, let's see. what about the engineer? why can not he marry us on the train?
oh, darling!
well, why not? the captain on a ship can. it does not seem fair that... hey, hey, what is wrong, kid?
i love you so much, and i hate this war so much. oh, it is a crazy world. anything can happen. if you should not get away, i mean, if, if something should keep us apart, wherever they put you and wherever I will be, i want you to know...
where is she? have you seen her?
no, mr. richard. i can not find her.
oh. i saved my first drink to have with you. here.
no. no, rick. not tonight.
especially tonight.
please.
why did you have to come to casablanca? there are other places.
i would not have come if i had known that you were here. believe me, rick, it is true. i did not know.
it is funny about your voice, how it has not changed. i can still hear it. "richard dear, I will go with you any place. we will get on a train together and never stop."
please don't. don't, rick. i can understand how you feel.
huh! you understand how i feel. how long was it we had, honey?
i did not count the days.
well, i did. every one of them. mostly i remember the last one. a wow finish. a guy standing on a station platform in the rain with a comical look on his face, because his insides had been kicked out.
can i tell you a story, rick?
has it got a wow finish?
i do not know the finish yet.
well, go on, tell it. maybe one will come to you as you go along.
it is about a girl who had just come to paris from her home in oslo. at the house of some friends she met a man about whom she would heard her whole life, a very great and courageous man. he opened up for her a whole beautiful world full of knowledge and thoughts and ideals. everything she knew or ever became was because of him. and she looked up to him and worshipped him with a feeling she supposed was love.
yes, that is very pretty. i heard a story once. as a matter of fact, I have heard a lot of stories in my time. they went along with the sound of a tinny piano playing in the parlor downstairs, "mister, i met a man once when i was a kid," it would always begin. huh. i guess neither one of our stories was very funny. tell me, who was it you left me for? was it laszlo, or were there others in between? or are not you the kind that tells?
i strongly suspect that ugarte left the letters of transit with mr. blaine. i would suggest you search the cafe immediately and thoroughly.
if rick has the letters, he is much too smart to let you find them there.
you give him credit for too much cleverness. my impression was that he is just another blundering american.
but we must not underestimate american blundering. i was with them when they "blundered" into berlin in 1918.
as to laszlo, we want him watched twenty-four hours a day.
it may interest you to know that at this very moment he is on his way here.
i am delighted to see you both. did you have a good night's rest?
i slept very well.
that is strange. nobody is supposed to sleep well in casablanca.
may we proceed with the business?
with pleasure. will not you sit down?
thank you.
very well, herr laszlo, we will not mince words. you are an escaped prisoner of the reich. so far you have been fortunate enough in eluding us. you have reached casablanca. it is my duty to see that you stay in casablanca.
whether or not you succeed is, of course, problematical.
not at all. captain renault's signature is necessary on every exit visa.  captain, would you think it is possible that herr laszlo will receive a visa?
i am afraid not. my regrets, monsieur.
well, perhaps i shall like it in casablanca.
and mademoiselle?
you need not be concerned about me.
is that all you wish to tell us?
do not be in such a hurry. you have all the time in the world. you may be in casablanca indefinitely... or you may leave for lisbon tomorrow, on one condition.
and that is?
you know the leaders of the underground movement in paris, in prague, in brussels, in amsterdam, in oslo, in belgrade, in athens.
even in berlin.
yes, even in berlin. if you will furnish me with their names and their exact whereabouts, you will have your visa in the morning.
and the honor of having served the third reich.
i was in a german concentration camp for a year. that is honor enough for a lifetime.
you will give us the names?
if i did not give them to you in a concentration camp where you had more "persuasive methods" at your disposal, i certainly will not give them to you now.
and what if you track down these men and kill them? what if you murdered all of us? from every corner of europe, hundreds, thousands, would rise to take our places. even nazis can not kill that fast.
herr laszlo, you have a reputation for eloquence which i can now understand. but in one respect you are mistaken. you said the enemies of the reich could all be replaced, but there is one exception. no one could take your place in the event anything unfortunate should occur to you while you were trying to escape.
you will not dare to interfere with me here. this is still unoccupied france. any violation of neutrality would reflect on captain renault.
monsieur, insofar as it is in my power --
-- thank you.
by the way, monsieur, last night you evinced an interest in signor ugarte.
yes.
i believe you have a message for him?
nothing important, but may i speak to him now?
i am making out the report now. we have not quite decided whether he committed suicide or died trying to escape.
are you quite finished with us?
for the time being.
good day.
i see the bus is in. I will take my shipment with me.
no hurry. I will have it sent over. have a drink with me.
i never drink in the morning. and every time you send my shipment over, it is always just a little bit short.
carrying charges, my boy, carrying charges. here, sit down. there is something i want to talk over with you, anyhow.
the bourbon.  the news about ugarte upset me very much.
you are a fat hypocrite. you do not feel any sorrier for ugarte than i do.
of course not. what upsets me is the fact that ugarte is dead and no one knows where those letters of transit are.
practically no one.
if i could lay my hands on those letters, i could make a fortune.
so could i. and I am a poor businessman.
i have a proposition for whoever has those letters. i will handle the entire transaction, get rid of the letters, take all the risk, for a small percentage.
and the carrying charges?
naturally there will be a few incidental expenses. that is the proposition i have for whoever has those letters.
I will tell him when he comes in.
rick, I will put my cards on the table. i think you know where those letters are.
well, you are in good company. renault and strasser probably think so, too.
that is why i came over here to give them a chance to ransack my place.
rick, do not be a fool. take me into your confidence. you need a partner.
good morning.
signor ferrari is the fat gent at the table.
I am sorry i was in no condition to receive you when you called on me last night.
it does not matter.
why did you come back? to tell me why you ran out on me at the railway station?
yes.
well, you can tell me now. I am reasonably sober.
i do not think i will, rick.
why not? after all, i got stuck with a railway ticket. i think I am entitled to know.
last night i saw what has happened to you. the rick i knew in paris, i could tell him. he would understand. but the one who looked at me with such hatred... well, I will be leaving casablanca soon and we will never see each other again. we knew very little about each other when we were in love in paris. if we leave it that way, maybe we will remember those days and not casablanca, not last night.
did you run out on me because you could not take it? because you knew what it would be like, hiding from the police, running away all the time?
you can believe that if you want to.
well, I am not running away any more. I am settled now, above a saloon, it is true, but... walk up a flight. I will be expecting you.
all the same, someday you will lie to laszlo. you will be there.
no, rick. no, you see, victor laszlo is my husband... and was, even when i knew you in paris.
you see, my dear, the word has gone around.
as leader of all illegal activities in casablanca, i am an influential and respected man. it would not be worth my life to do anything for monsieur laszlo. you, however, are a different matter.
signor ferrari thinks it might just be possible to get an exit visa for you.
i will stay here and keep on trying. I am sure in a little while --
-- we might as well be frank, monsieur. it will take a miracle to get you out of casablanca. and the germans have outlawed miracles.
we are only interested in two visas, signor.
please, ilsa, do not be hasty.
no, victor, no.
no, ilsa, i will not let you stay here. you must get to america. and believe me, somehow i will get out and join you.
but, victor, if the situation were different, if i had to stay and there were only a visa for one, would you take it?
yes, i would.
yes, i see. when i had trouble getting out of lille, why did not you leave me there? and when i was sick in marseilles and held you up for two weeks and you were in danger every minute of the time, why did not you leave me then?
i meant to, but something always held me up. i love you very much, ilsa.
we have decided, signor ferrari. for the present we will go on looking for two exit visas. thank you very much.
well, good luck. but be careful.  you know you are being shadowed?
i observe that you in one respect are a very fortunate man, monsieur. i am moved to make one more suggestion, why, i do not know, because it cannot possibly profit me, but, have you heard about signor ugarte and the letters of transit?
yes, something.
those letters were not found on ugarte when they arrested him.
do you know where they are?
not for sure, monsieur, but i will venture to guess that ugarte left those letters with monsieur rick.
rick?
he is a difficult customer, that rick. one never knows what he will do or why. but it is worth a chance.
thank you very much. good day.
it was gracious of you to share it with me. good day, mademoiselle, monsieur.
good day.
here's to you, sir.
er, good luck, yes.
I would better be going.
er, my check, please.
i have to warn you, sir. i beseech you...
er, goodbye, sir.
it has been a pleasure to meet you.
well, ricky. I am very pleased with you. now you are beginning to live like a frenchman.
that was some going-over your men gave my place this afternoon. we just barely got cleaned up in time to open.
well, i told strasser he would not find the letters here. but i told my men to be especially destructive. you know how that impresses germans?  rick, have you got these letters of transit?
louis, are you pro-vichy or free french?
serves me right for asking a direct question. the subject is closed.
well, it looks like you are a little late.
huh?
so yvonne's gone over to the enemy.
who knows? in her own way she may constitute an entire second front. i think it is time for me to flatter major strasser a little. I will see you later, rick.
you see, captain, the situation is not as much under control as you believe.
my dear major, we are trying to cooperate with your government, but we cannot regulate the feelings of our people.
captain renault, are you entirely certain which side you are on?
i have no conviction, if that is what you mean. i blow with the wind, and the prevailing wind happens to be from vichy.
and if it should change?
we are concerned about more than casablanca. we know that every french province in africa is honeycombed with traitors waiting for their chance, waiting, perhaps, for a leader.
a leader, like laszlo?
uh, huh. i have been thinking. it is too dangerous if we let him go. it may be too dangerous if we let him stay.
i see what you mean.
monsieur rick?
yes?
could i speak to you for just a moment, please?
how did you get in here? you are under age.
i came with captain renault.
i should have known.
my husband is with me, too.
he is? well, captain renault's getting broadminded. sit down. will you have a drink?
no, of course not. do you mind if i do?
no.
monsieur rick, what kind of man is captain renault?
oh, he is just like any other man, only more so.
no, i mean, is he trustworthy? is his word --
-- now, just a minute. who told you to ask me that?
he did. captain renault did.
i thought so. where is your husband?
at the roulette table, trying to win enough for our exit visa. well of course, he is losing.
how long have you been married?
eight weeks. we come from bulgaria. oh, things are very bad there, monsieur. a devil has the people by the throat. so, jan and i, we, we do not want our children to grow up in such a country.
so you decided to go to america.
yes, but we have not much money, and traveling is so expensive and difficult. it was much more than we thought to get here. and then captain renault sees us and he is so kind. he wants to help us.
yes, I will bet.
he tells me he can give us an exit visa, but we have no money.
does he know that?
oh, yes.
and he is still willing to give you a visa?
yes, monsieur.
and you want to know --
-- will he keep his word?
he always has.
nobody ever loved me that much.
and he never knew, and the girl kept this bad thing locked in her heart? that would be all right, would not it?
you want my advice?
oh, yes, please.
go back to bulgaria.
oh, but if you knew what it means to us to leave europe, to get to america! oh, but if jan should find out! he is such a boy. in many ways i am so much older than he is.
yes, well, everybody in casablanca has problems. yours may work out. you will excuse me.
good evening.
good evening. you see, here we are again.
i take that as a great compliment to sam.  i suppose he means to you paris of, well, happier days.
he does. could we have a table close to him?
and as far away from major strasser as possible.
monsieur rick, i --
-- he is just a lucky guy.
monsieur rick, may i get you a cup of coffee?
no thanks, carl.
monsieur rick!
as i suspected, you are a rank sentimentalist.
yeah? why?
why do you interfere with my little romances?
put it down as a gesture to love.
well, i forgive you this time. but I will be in tomorrow night with a breathtaking blonde, and it will make me very happy if she loses. uh huh!
monsieur blaine, i wonder if i could talk to you?
go ahead.
well, is not there some other place? it is rather confidential, what i have to say.
my office.
right.
you must know it is very important i get out of casablanca. it is my privilege to be one of the leaders of a great movement. you know what i have been doing. you know what it means to the work, to the lives of thousands and thousands of people that i be free to reach america and continue my work.
I am not interested in politics. the problems of the world are not in my department. I am a saloon keeper.
my friends in the underground tell me that you have quite a record. you ran guns to ethiopia. you fought against the fascists in spain.
what of it?
is not it strange that you always happened to be fighting on the side of the underdog?
yes. i found that a very expensive hobby, too. but then i never was much of a businessman.
are you enough of a businessman to appreciate an offer of a hundred thousand francs?
i appreciate it, but i do not accept it.
I will raise it to two hundred thousand.
my friend, you could make it a million francs, or three, my answer would still be the same.
there must be some reason why you will not let me have them.
there is. i suggest that you ask your wife.
i beg your pardon?
i said, ask your wife.
my wife?
you see what i mean? if laszlo's presence in a cafe can inspire this unfortunate demonstration, what more will his presence in casablanca bring on? i advise that this place be shut up at once.
but everybody's having such a good time.
yes, much too good a time. the place is to be closed.
but i have no excuse to close it.
find one.
how can you close me up? on what grounds?
i am shocked, shocked to find that gambling is going on in here!
mademoiselle, after this disturbance it is not safe for laszlo to stay in casablanca.
this morning you implied it was not safe for him to leave casablanca.
that is also true, except for one destination, to return to occupied france.
occupied france?
uh huh. under a safe conduct from me.
what value is that? you may recall what german guarantees have been worth in the past.
there are only two other alternatives for him.
what are they?
it is possible the french authorities will find a reason to put him in the concentration camp here.
and the other alternative?
my dear mademoiselle, perhaps you have already observed that in casablanca, human life is cheap. good night, mademoiselle.
what happened with rick?
we will discuss it later.
our faithful friend is still there.
victor, please, do not go to the underground meeting tonight.
i must. besides, it is not often that a man has a chance to display heroics before his wife.
do not joke. after major strasser's warning tonight, i am frightened.
to tell you the truth, i am frightened too. shall i remain here in our hotel room hiding, or shall i carry on the best i can?
whatever I would say, you would carry on. victor, why do not you tell me about rick? what did you find out?
apparently he has the letters.
yes?
but no intention of selling them. one would think if sentiment would not persuade him, money would.
did he give any reason?
he suggested i ask you.
ask me?
yes. he said, "ask your wife." i do not know why he said that.
ilsa, i --
-- yes?
when i was in the concentration camp, were you lonely in paris?
yes, victor, i was.
i know how it is to be lonely.  is there anything you wish to tell me?
no, victor, there isn't.
i love you very much, my dear.
yes, yes i know. victor, whatever i do, will you believe that i, that --
-- you do not even have to say it. I will believe. goodnight, dear.
be careful.
of course, I will be careful.
well, you are in pretty good shape, herr rick.
how long can i afford to stay closed?
oh, two weeks, maybe three.
maybe i will not have to. a bribe has worked before. in the meantime, everybody stays on salary.
oh, thank you, herr rick. sacha will be happy to hear it. i owe him money.
now you finish locking up, will you, carl?
i will. then i am going to the meeting of the --
-- do not tell me where you are going.
i won't.
goodnight.
goodnight, monsieur rick.
how did you get in?
the stairs from the street.
i told you this morning you would come around, but this is a little ahead of schedule. well, will not you sit down?
richard, i had to see you.
you use "richard" again? we are back in paris.
please.
your unexpected visit is not connected by any chance with the letters of transit? it seems that as long as i have those letters I will never be lonely.
you can ask any price you want, but you must give me those letters.
i went through all that with your husband. it is no deal.
i know how you feel about me, but I am asking you to put your feelings aside for something more important.
do i have to hear again what a great man your husband is? what an important cause he is fighting for?
it was your cause, too. in your own way, you were fighting for the same thing.
I am not fighting for anything anymore, except myself. I am the only cause I am interested in.
richard, richard, we loved each other once. if those days meant anything at all to you --
-- i would not bring up paris if i were you. it is poor salesmanship.
please. please listen to me. if you knew what really happened, if you only knew the truth --
-- i would not believe you, no matter what you told me. you would say anything now to get what you want.
no. oh, richard, I am sorry. I am sorry, but, but you, you are our last hope. if you do not help us, victor laszlo will die in casablanca.
what of it? I am going to die in casablanca. it is a good spot for it.
-- all right. i tried to reason with you. i tried everything. now i want those letters. get them for me.
i do not have to. I have got them right here.
put them on the table.
no.
for the last time, put them on the table.
if laszlo and the cause mean so much to you, you will not stop at anything. all right, I will make it easier for you.
and then?
it was not long after we were married that victor went back to czechoslovakia. they needed him in prague, but there the gestapo were waiting for him. just a two-line item in the paper: "victor laszlo apprehended. sent to concentration camp." i was frantic. for months i tried to get word. then it came. he was dead, shot trying to escape. i was lonely. i had nothing. not even hope. then i met you.
why were not you honest with me? why did you keep your marriage a secret?
oh, it was not my secret, richard. victor wanted it that way. not even our closest friends knew about our marriage. that was his way of protecting me. i knew so much about his work, and if the gestapo found out i was his wife it would be dangerous for me and for those working with me.
when did you first find out he was alive?
just before you and i were to leave paris together. a friend came and told me that victor was alive. they were hiding him in a freight car on the outskirts of paris. he was sick, he needed me. i wanted to tell you, but i, i did not care. i knew, i knew you would not have left paris, and the gestapo would have caught you. so i... well, well, you know the rest.
huh. but it is still a story without an ending. what about now?
now? i do not know. i know that I will never have the strength to leave you again.
and laszlo?
oh, you will help him now, richard, will not you? you will see that he gets out? then he will have his work, all that he is been living for.
all except one. he will not have you.
i can not fight it anymore. i ran away from you once. i can not do it again. oh, i do not know what is right any longer. you will have to think for both of us, for all of us.
all right, i will. here's looking at you, kid.
i wish i did not love you so much.
the police break up our meeting. herr rick! we escaped in the last moment.
come up here a minute.
yes, i come.
i want you to turn out the light in the rear entrance. it might attract the police.
but sacha always puts out that light --
-- tonight he forgot.
yes, i come, i will do it.
i want you to take miss lund home.
yes, sir.
well, this might come in handy.
thank you.
had a close one, eh?
yes, rather.
do not you sometimes wonder if it is worth all this? i mean what you are fighting for?
we might as well question why we breathe. if we stop breathing, we will die. if we stop fighting our enemies, the world will die.
what of it? then it will be out of it is misery.
you know how you sound, monsieur blaine? like a man who is trying to convince himself of something he does not believe in his heart. each of us has a destiny, for good or for evil.
yes, i get the point.
i wonder if you do. i wonder if you know that you are trying to escape from yourself and that you will never succeed.
you seem to know all about my destiny.
i know a good deal more about you than you suspect. i know, for instance, that you are in love with a woman. it is perhaps strange that we both should be in love with the same woman. the first evening i came here in this cafe, i knew there was something between you and ilsa. since no one is to blame, i, i demand no explanation. i ask only one thing. you will not give me the letters of transit. all right. but i want my wife to be safe. i ask you as a favor to use the letters to take her away from casablanca.
you love her that much?
apparently you think of me only as the leader of a cause. well, i am also a human being.
but you have not any actual proof, and you know it. this is not germany or occupied france. all you can do is fine him a few thousand francs and give him thirty days. you might as well let him go now.
ricky, I would advise you not to be too interested in what happens to laszlo. if by any chance you were to help him escape --
-- what makes you think I would stick my neck out for laszlo?
because one, you have bet ten thousand francs he would escape. two, you have the letters of transit, now do not bother to deny it. and, well, you might do it simply because you do not like strasser's looks. as a matter of fact, i do not like him either.
well, they are all excellent reasons.
do not count too much on my friendship, ricky. in this matter I am powerless. besides, i might lose ten thousand francs.
you are not very subtle, but you are effective. i, i get the point. yes, i have the letters, but i intend using them myself. I am leaving casablanca on tonight's plane, the last plane.
huh?
and I am taking a friend with me. one you will appreciate.
what friend?
ilsa lund.  that ought to put your mind to rest about my helping laszlo escape. the last man i want to see in america.
you did not come here to tell me this. you have the letters of transit. you can fill in your name and hers and leave any time you please. why are you interested in what happens to laszlo?
ilsa is laszlo's wife. she probably knows things that strasser would like to know. louis, I will make a deal with you. instead of this petty charge you have against him, you can get something really big, something that would chuck him in a concentration camp for years. that would be quite a feather in your cap, would not it?
it certainly would. germany... vichy would be very grateful.
then release him. you be at my place a half hour before the plane leaves.
I will arrange to have laszlo come there to pick up the letters of transit, and that will give you the criminal grounds on which to make the arrest. you get him, and we get away. to the germans that last will be just a minor annoyance.
there is still something about this business i do not quite understand. miss lund, she is very beautiful, yes, but you were never interested in any woman.
well, she is not just any woman.
i see. how do i know you will keep your end of the bargain?
I will make the arrangements right now with laszlo in the visitor's pen.
ricky, I am going to miss you. apparently you are the only one in casablanca who has even less scruples than i.
oh, thanks.
go ahead, ricky.
shall we draw up the papers, or is our handshake good enough?
it is certainly not good enough. but since I am in a hurry, it will have to do.
ah, to get out of casablanca and go to america! you are a lucky man.
oh, by the way, my agreement with sam's always been that he gets twenty- five percent of the profits. that still goes.
hmmm. i happen to know that he gets ten percent. but he is worth twenty- five.
and abdul and carl and sacha, they stay with the place, or i do not sell.
of course they stay. rick's would not be rick's without them.
well, so long.
do not forget, you owe rick's a hundred cartons of american cigarettes.
i shall remember to pay it... to myself.
you are late.
i was informed just as laszlo was about to leave the hotel, so i knew I would be on time.
i thought i asked you to tie up your watchdogs.
oh, he will not be followed here.
you know, this place will never be the same without you, ricky.
yes, i know what you mean, but I have already spoken to ferrari. you will still win at roulette.
is everything ready?
i have the letters right here.
tell me, when we searched the place, where were they?
sam's piano.
serves me right for not being musical.
richard, victor thinks I am leaving with him. have not you told him?
no, not yet.
but it is all right, is not it? you were able to arrange everything?
everything is quite all right.
oh, rick!
monsieur blaine, i do not know how to thank you.
oh, save it. we have still lots of things to do.
i brought the money, monsieur blaine.
keep it. you will need it in america.
but we made a deal.
oh, never mind about that. you will not have any trouble in lisbon, will you?
no. it is all arranged.
good. I have got the letters right here, all made out in blank.
-- not so fast, louis. nobody's going to be arrested. not for a while yet.
have you taken leave of your senses?
i have. sit down over there.
put that gun down.
i suppose you know what you are doing, but i wonder if you realize what this means?
i do. we have got plenty of time to discuss that later.
call off your watch-dogs you said.
just the same, you call the airport and let me hear you tell them. and remember, this gun's pointed right at your heart.
that is my least vulnerable spot.
if you do not mind, you fill in the names. that will make it even more official.
you think of everything, do not you?
and the names are mr. and mrs. victor laszlo.
but why my name, richard?
because you are getting on that plane.
i do not understand. what about you?
I am staying here with him 'til the plane gets safely away.
no, richard, no. what has happened to you? last night we said --
-- last night we said a great many things. you said i was to do the thinking for both of us. well, I have done a lot of it since then and it all adds up to one thing. you are getting on that plane with victor where you belong.
but richard, no, i, i --
-- you have got to listen to me. do you have any idea what you would have to look forward to if you stayed here? nine chances out of ten we would both wind up in a concentration camp. is not that true, louis?
I am afraid major strasser would insist.
you are saying this only to make me go.
I am saying it because it is true. inside of us we both know you belong with victor. you are part of his work, the thing that keeps him going. if that plane leaves the ground and you are not with him, you will regret it.
no.
maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon, and for the rest of your life.
but what about us?
we will always have paris. we did not have, we would lost it, until you came to casablanca. we got it back last night.
and i said i would never leave you.
and you never will. but I have got a job to do, too. where I am going you can not follow. what I have got to do you can not be any part of. ilsa, I am no good at being noble, but it does not take much to see that the problems of three little people do not amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. someday you will understand that. now, now...
everything in order?
all except one thing. there is something you should know before you leave.
monsieur blaine, i do not ask you to explain anything.
I am going to anyway, because it may make a difference to you later on. you said you knew about ilsa and me.
yes.
but you did not know she was at my place last night when you were. she came there for the letters of transit. is not that true, ilsa?
yes.
she tried everything to get them, and nothing worked. she did her best to convince me that she was still in love with me, but that was all over long ago. for your sake, she pretended it wasn't, and i let her pretend.
i understand.
here it is.
are you ready ilsa?
yes, I am ready.  goodbye, rick. god bless you.
well i was right. you are a sentimentalist.
stay where you are. i do not know what you are talking about.
what you just did for laszlo, and that fairy tale that you invented to send ilsa away with him. i know a little about women, my friend. she went, but she knew you were lying.
anyway, thanks for helping me out.
i suppose you know this is not going to be pleasant for either of us, especially for you. I will have to arrest you of course.
as soon as the plane goes, louis.
what is the meaning of that phone call?
victor laszlo is on that plane.
why do you stand here? why do not you stop him?
ask monsieur rick.
i would advise you not to interfere.
i was willing to shoot captain renault, and I am willing to shoot you.
hello?
put that phone down!
get me the radio tower!
put it down!
well, rick, you are not only a sentimentalist, but you have become a patriot.
maybe, but it seemed like a good time to start.
i think perhaps you are right.
it might be a good idea for you to disappear from casablanca for a while. there is a free french garrison over at brazzaville. i could be induced to arrange a passage.
my letter of transit? i could use a trip. but it does not make any difference about our bet. you still owe me ten thousand francs.
and that ten thousand francs should pay our expenses.
our expenses?
uh huh.
louis, i think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
