what a "drag."
"well done," cactus.
oh, i wish they wouldn't feed him like that.
now he'll be up all night...
hey, hot stuff. you're still on the clock...
sorry, sir. the cult is my life and my life is the cult. by god, captain god, i shall not fail you..
cactus--shooting a man in the back is not very noble.
that is not a man, captain god. that is vomit accidentally born with two legs.
well. i stand corrected.
you're late.
yes, mother. dear.
a hearty breakfast is the start of a great morning...
oh, i forgot to tell you, you're on a diet...the fact you're still reasonably pretty is the one thing you got going for you.
oh mommy, you're embarrassing me.
is every single thing out of your mouth since your "accident" have to be a monotone mumble of cheap sarcasm?
maybe.
it's funny, i've heard of giving up finding a man and raising a family to pursue a career. and i've heard of foregoing a career to start a family-- but i think you're onto something new, selina. "absolutely nothing"-- has a ring to it. i think it could catch on...how's that for sarcasm?
pretty good...mom, i don't want you to think i don't appreciate...letting me stay, getting me the job--i've been a mess. i'm still a mess. it's just...we have to start having a different conversation. i can't take..
i'll take your abuse, but it's way too early for the sanctimonious cult of gag...
oh, so now even the keepers of the city don't meet your standards...you're late.
don't sneak up on me...
uh, it's just--that woman out there-- that horrible hag. she's the one who keeps following me on her creepy little scooter--and now she's built a hut in the back..why did you...
because she asked me--and i couldn't very well turn her down. don't you remember-- of course you don't remember--that "hag" is the one who brought you to that hospital in gotham city. for what it's worth-- currently not much--we owe her your life...when i think about a single woman in gotham city--amnesia is probably the best thing that could happen to a girl like you...oh, don't forget your visor.
you're late. i've got some good news and some good news. i'm giving you more hours and the new uniforms came in.
what's the good news?
you know, kyle, you're still pretty hot for a pre-bicentennial babe...
"pre-bicentennial babe?"
yeah, as in born before..ooh, i suppose it's "sexual harassment" to give a woman a compliment. sheesh. come on, gentleman...
he likes you. kincaid and i have always had similar tastes...
in women?
no, in art. i try not bring up women around kincaid. it's a sore spot between us. long story..
i'll bet. funny, for some reason, i don't think dogs are supposed to like me.
you say that like an amnesia victim.
guilty. i am.
ouch. i hope you're not offended by aggressively curious men.
i don't know. i can't remember.
a genuine woman of mystery in oasisburg.  amnesia. bulletholes in exposed stomach badly concealed with body make-up.  beautiful, intelligent eyes that have no business in "frank's fun palace" or anybody else's fun palace for that matter..
uh. "thanks?"
boss-man, what were you going on about last night: "i am the law and i am the danish..."
i don't know what i was saying. i totally phoned it in last night. i haven't been getting a lot of sleep lately...
the crowd bought it.
crowd always buys it. what do we got?
the shopkeeper on 13th street won't drop the lawsuit--he still claims one of the lasers we fired at the jenkins gang burned down his store..
i hate innocent bystanders.  whine, whine, whine. will he settle?
do i have to remind everyone that in two days, we'll all be dead. the cult of good will be a memory. i don't want to hear about lawsuits or cereals. we have a secret mission...
i still have to call my agent--my techno-single just made the hot 100...what's with the phone?
you have to dial nine first.
cactus, i can't believe you just said all that...
oops--my face must match my cape. and to think we were going to let you go...
well, we spent enough time building the damn thing, might as well use it.
a bit sadistic, don't you think, captain...?
"dat's gotta hurt!"
he didn't remember to roll up his window...
well, you don't see that everyday. somebody tell me what's the deal with frida kahlo here?
just a homeless woman. wrong place.
right time. that was kind of fun. she had spunk.
why am i still troubled...
i thought we were going to take it easy until the mission...
this looks promising...
what's the catch?
ooh, i've read about this philly. she's the one who gave that wimp batman all those migraines up in gotham...
i don't know, boss, you saw what the big guy did to the last kitty we gave him.
how could i forget. mammoth--go pet the kitty.
spooky.
spear.
you're not a super-hero. you're not even a hero. you're a scary, sick, fake who made a big mistake. you killed someone very special to me..
and...your point?
oh man, not the sewer, i just had this cape cleaned...
it's okay. let her go.
you like them, don't you, boss.
oh, i like her. i like her a lot. i want to save this one for later. something that tasty you don't eat all at once. go back to your alter- egos, we'll regroup in the morning.
where were you last night?  i didn't hear you come in.
it's because i didn't come in. i live in the hut, now. i meant to tell you..see ya.
there you are, selina. i've been thinking..i have some.."positions" opening up..
stop.
oh, what?  i offer you a job in implied exchange for physical favors and suddenly it's "sexual harassment..."
can i be frank, frank?  your entire existence is sexual harassment. i accept there's not much you can do about it.
hey, you're anti-male.
oh frank, i'm not anti-male, i'm anti- you. believe me, there's a difference.  kelly is designing new uniforms for next week. pay her and thank her. and is it a rule that the hottest places on the planet have the coldest air conditioning.  there's something out there called 73 degrees, look into it.
what if i were to say "you're fired?"
what if i were to say "your wife"-- as in does she know of your touching mentor-student relationship with the post-bicentennial babe working the roulette wheel?
kelly, get to work on those new uniforms.  i'm not running a summer camp here..
strange--you seemed so close. i wonder what's happened since yesterday..
i wonder..
what's the matter...
nothing, just a jolt of deja-vu. i think i went out with a guy with a dignified british butler--can't remember how it turned out..
i'll bet the butler's name wasn't "jeff."
you're probably right.
i was wondering, if you're not doing anything tonight...would you like to go to dinner? i know; a tame suggestion considering the wide variety of miniature golf possibilities available to the oasisburg citizen--but nevertheless, would you?
how heroic of you...
kincaid got a little frisky last night...so, meet here at eight and go from there?  by the way, i'm brock leviathan.
but of course you are. dinner at eight.  wouldn't miss it.
there's a nice cafe down the street...unless you're afraid of this catwoman prowling around. we can always dine at the mansion, if..
i'm not afraid. are you?
i don't know what came over me.
what is it with women and catwoman? men have the courtesy to punish the weak, but women love punishing the strong. don't get me wrong--this catwoman is a terrifying, subversive menace to everything this community stands for and she must be stopped. it's just, i like her a lot.
yeah, she's okay.
most articles focus on the first half of her name--describing some feline monster.  i want the woman of catwoman. after all, if it was a man dressed as a cat, the story would be on page 23--just another loony. oh, i want this one. i want her bad..
sorry, i get carried away. once i become interested in someone, i can't stop trying to figure them out...amnesia victims are challenging..
i actually got some memory back last night.
how much?
enough.
oh now this one is mine...
oh the hand--my grandfather is inventing a new kind of blender and..you know, i realize i've never officially introduced myself...i'm lewis lane.
but of course you are.
i was wondering, if you're not doing anything tonight...
i am. dinner with brock leviathan...
ah!  ah!--god no, don't tell me you're one of those women who are attracted to ruggedly handsome and brilliant architects..
god-damn..
what did you say?
sorry man, i didn't mean that personally...
i know how you feel, humiliated in the hands of a woman. i'd rather eat my soul on a paper plate...
not now, mammoth. adonis is right. we've had a good run here--the protection kickbacks from the crime syndicates, the merchandising scams-- tomorrow night we have a big, violent, complicated and lucrative mission to pull off. we chould be resting up.
resting up?  sorry spooky, i've got to go with god on this one. i hate to think we're just in this for the money.  garfield's girlfriend crossed a line last night and she's got to get spayed. we're going out of oasisburg on a win.
you designed gotham plaza?  the big silver guys pulling on those big silver things...
what did you think?
oh, it's superb--i mean if you like that fascist nightmare kind of thing...
hey, hey, the client comes first. you think i want my future children to know their daddy created frank's fun palace?
i checked out your stuff at the library.  awesome work, really. why would someone like you want to go out with a...with a..what exactly am i, again?
you're very special. selina, i'm not a very good liar. i feel very strongly about you...forgive me use of architecture metaphors, but i instantly know a good foundation when i see one..
i despise these kind of winds. sorry, i guess i'm a little on edge. seems this catwoman has everyone, men and women, on edge. don't you feel catwoman says something about the duality of all men and women...
stop. we are not having a "duality" conversation. "ooh, he has a secret side.  ooh, she has a dark side." please.  duality is a joke. you get one, do you understand me?  you get one life. one shot. i'm so tired of women saying "i have an inner strength" or "deep down, i'm really ambitious." "one day i'll design my own line of clothing and write children's stories, if i can only remember to return the videos i rented last night." if you are something, then you better be out there doing something.  you need to be the same bold thing in the day that you are at night--with maybe a slight clothing change. there is no gray area. the truth is not somewhere in between. there are two sides to every personality, all right--the reality...and the lie. we are not having a "duality" conversation.
so, did you see "seinfeld" last week? that kramer-guy really makes me laugh.
i'm sorry i went off like that, i get passionate. i--i guess i'm a passionate person. one of those things i had forgotten.  when you were a little boy did you want to grow up to be a superhero?
what little boy doesn't...  my god...it's, it's...catwoman.
no it's not.
a whip?  now that's going too far!  some of these women have no shame!
what's the matter?  what are you saying?
well, it's just that i would think that the woman who is the real, non- imitation catwoman would be pretty angry at some little amateur minx stealing the whole whip idea. really angry.
this is insane. let the heroes handle it.  i'd better get you home...i should check on my warehouse to make sure it hasn't been hit...
your warehouse?  go on ahead--to your "warehouse." i'll be okay...
are you sure?
i'm sure.
have we reached the epi-center?
ayy!  some cat's blocking the periscope.  somebody, give it a swat...
works for me.
i don't know about you, guys, but i'm getting a little buzz off this.
yeah, this is better than rape.
cactus, sometimes you don't deserve to wear our logo.
touchy. look everybody, it's casper, the friendly crimefighter...
ah, cats. now and forever.
be verwy, verwy, quiet; i'm hunting catwomen.
the tranquilizer tranquility will hold for about an hour..where is she? these women are out here on a lark-- ladies night at a discotheque.  it's not in their blood the way it is for catwoman...where is she?
i hate it when you get like this. this catwoman is becoming an obsession. i say we call it a night. tomorrow is a big day for us...
what's the matter with you, spooky, my most trusted comrade?  we are warriors!  these are the challenges we live for!
hasn't anyone ever taught you that fighting violence with violence solves nothing.
it's a lot more fun than fighting violence with pamphlets. that voicebox of yours is a hoot. say "i'm wearing no underwear"--it'll be funny..  you do know you're evil, don't you?
a superhero's job is to protect society.  don't blame me if society is a horrible, corrupt joke.
"a superhero's job is to protect.." sorry, i can't take you seriously...i overheard you say that tomorrow the cult of good will be dead--i should be so lucky--what did that mean?
my, those little ears pick up a lot. the cult of good will die heroically preventing a world-class heist. since we will be the ones performing the heist, our deaths will obviously be fake. but have no fear. there will be many other deaths tomorrow...and those will be quite real. i'm afraid these questions of yours put you in a position not unlike a long-tailed tabby in room full of rocking chairs.
oh please, sir, one more. are you the reporter or the architect?
yes. i am the reporter or the architect.  you've been through so much..it looks like you've used up all nine of your lives...
i still have one left...
you think so?...selina?
you've seen me...
hello, spooky.
i don't want to hurt you, catwoman. yet.  after tomorrow, you can do anything you want, but please, just stay out of sight for the next 24 hours. i won't stand by and watch my leader get all emotional over an animal like you. i warn you, don't tempt captain god when he is angry. let is complete our mission in peace.
whatever you say...sis.
good morning.
ah!  you scared me!  how did you know to come here!  have you been spying..
no, of course not. you're listed. not the hut, exactly, but the rest of..
well. i'd let you come in, but the place is a mess...
next time, call...
i thought you'd like a ride to work.  you don't own a cat, do you?
hey, captain god!
what did--?
you turned around!
yes, you shouted the words "captain god" at me for no reason...
oh, do you turn around every time somebody just shouts at you?
actually, yes.
did you try to kill...
what?
nothing. how's your hand?
about the same. thanks for asking...damn blender.  okay, i can't stand it anymore, i'm dying to know--did you try on some whiskers last night and hit a 7-11 along with all those other women? you had to have thought about it--a catwoman for a night?
like you don't know...
i'm having a hard time picking up your signal this morning--what did you say?
i said i saw you last night. what were you doing hiding in that alley, running off when the superhero alarm sounded...
i was doing my job. at the risk of sounding egotistical, i didn't become the best reporter in the world sitting by the phone. i was chasing tail all night--i was not spying, intentionally, on your hot and heavy date with "brock leviathan, architect."  i can't believe he ordered white wine.  you do know white wine is not real wine...
hey, i thought...
i'm afraid last night was the last straw of our city's tourists. the mayor, in his finite wisdom, is throwing a "month of the woman" luncheon ball for the public this afternoon to try and calm everyone down. i thought maybe you and i could...
go together?  sure, why not?  another date with someone who could be an insane messenger of death for all i know. no offense. hey, lean over, let me smell your breath..say in a deep voice, "a superhero's job is to protect..."
you're scaring me, selina.  do it some more.
i give up. i give up.--i can't figure you out. not gonna try.
you can't figure me out. you're the strange one..
you are...
uh-huh..
selina, did you make it home, all right?  i tried calling, but your mother said that there was "no extension in the hut." whatever that means..
i got home fine. how's the "warehouse."
fine. you're angry. don't be. the important thing is we're together now..
at some sanctimonious celebration of condescension. nothing like appeasing half the population with a two hour luncheon.
exactly. i don't know what i'd do without you.
uh brock, today you are without me...
there you are darling...have we met, lewis lane, oasisburg times.
oh, how long have you had your own route?
can i just say what a classy touch the neon urinals are, mr. architect?  i just love risking electrocution every time i..
what's a powerful man like you standing all alone for?  dance with me?
i'm sorry, miss, one of us needs to keep surveillance...
oh pooh, come now. if you turn me down, i just might throw a fit..you know how us girls can be..
what's it like being a superhero?  it must be frightfully exciting..how did you guys all get together?
we met on the internet. the captain put out a cryptic message calling for a new order of crimefighters. we don't even know each other's true identities...
you seem sad, spooky.
i'm not sad, no, i owe the captain my life. it's just you think you want to help prevent crime, but you realize that's too complicated. it's a lot more fun to punish crime. then after a while, you don't care what's a crime and what's not, what you became a warrior for. you just want the kicks. the rush.
the kicks..the rush..you mean, like pulling heists..faking your own deaths..killing innocent bystanders...like mexican angels.  i know you're a woman. do you?
you're the one. i thought i told you to stay hidden behind the couch, cat! you've torn the unit apart.  you've driven a great leader insane...
you going to talk all day?
nice breasts.
thanks.
can't you understand--i got tired of being a woman. i wanted the respect that only a cape, boots, chestplate, and a mechanical spear can bring..
you're not strong. you're scared..scared that someone like me will see right through you. whatever the cult of good was, it's not anymore... you don't have to listen to me, just listen to you..
you housewives have no idea what we go through!
you career girls have no idea what we go through.
did you just say "girls?"
i'm a good mother!
you mean, "consuela" is a good mother..
how did you know our nanny's name is...lucky guess!
what's the name of your child's best friend?
ask me another one--
women, huh?
they do take their time. so..selina kyle...
selina kyle...lovely person.
she has a real spirit.
a bit on the suspicious side, don't you think?
she has reason to be suspicious..doesn't she?
i suppose she does.
i better go report this in...
oh, you don't have to explain to me where you're going...
i want out of tonight's mission. i can't do it anymore, captain. i can't let innocent people die to prove our superiority..i can't.
just like a woman. you want out. you're out.
why are you--i fought for you with honor.  why should it matter if i'm a man or a woman, as long as i'm a good warrior.
of course it matters!  it throws off everything!  "superhero" is manhood's highest achievement. manhood!  your dirty little secret has diseased us to the core. you were my buddy, my comrade-- women aren't buddies, women aren't warriors!  you tried to turn the cult of good into some after-work softball team!  it's time to get thrown from the treehouse...
i loved you.
i know.
ah, did you hear that?  spooky loved you...
yeah...pretty gross. hurry, we've got work to do.
i heard what you said, spooky. i can't believe he shot you...
men, huh?
for when the time comes..
for when the..uh, yeah, thanks, a little gold piece of...gold. uh...
and i...i..want you to know our secrets..
oh no, not a computer disc. a computer disc?  oh man, come on, what do i look like?  i'm not a crime- fighter, i'm not a detective, what, i'm supposed to find some "clues" on this disc. i can't...
the mission is happening tonight..it's up to you to...to save the city...
"save the city?" i don't want to save the city, i want to move!  listen, i'm sure the computer disc is pretty fascinating and i can't thank you enough for the little weird gold thingie, but..
you know, my name's not spooky. it's, it's rachel.
hello, rachel. i'm selina.
i'm sorry, ma'am, there are no pets allowed in the library...
but i'm blind.
it's seeing-eye dogs, ma'am. if i let the cat stay, will you go out with me?
what if i say i'll go out with you, so you can have all these great daydreams, but then never actually talk to you again?
okay, deal.
"i'll go out with you." now go get me these old newspapers...
selina, are you okay?
yes, did you call us here for any particular reason?
tonight, somewhere in the city, innocent people will die--but then one of you knows that; for one of you is a vicious pirate-terrorist posing as the beloved superhero captain god.
what did you say?  selina, sit down, the entire city is going crazy...you have to just calm down...
hey, architect--she's joking. right, selina?  selina?
i'm not through. this will come as a shock. again, to one of you. i am catwoman. the catwoman.
hmm. not bad.
you're telling the truth. i can tell..how did this..
some reporter i am..all this time my story is right there in front..i have a lot of questions.
fine, fine, at a later date, i'll be more than happy to talk about my perverse psychological complexities with the one who's not the creep. but for now, i'm drilling inside your brains...i bring up the whole catwoman thing for one reason.  i bit captain god in the hand and the next day you both show up equipped with big bandaids and wobbly excuses--  "my grandfather is inventing a new kind of blender.."
you're kidding.
but it's true!  you can call him yourself.
lose the smile, mr. good reflexes. we were having a pretty okay time the other night--good food, good conversation--some catwomen show up and it's "you need cab fare?; i got to go to my hideout--oh, i'm sorry, i mean "warehouse."
not too cool...
then there's you, louis, sneaking through back alleys and surprise visiting me at my home..both of you have been way too frisky from the get- go. i'm actually a pretty amazing person--funny, smart, attractive when i get my sleep--but you two had no way of knowing that-- when i met you both i was basically a morose, depressed amnesiac incapable of any human feeling. the only reason one of you wanted to go out with me is because you knew i was catwoman.
you're right, i wasn't looking to fall in love with a casino worker. i'd given up trying to find anyone. but there was a fire in your eyes that cut right through the air conditioning and through the coldness of my heart.
your uniform, that first time i saw you, was a ghastly cage i vowed to unlock in order to..
you know, now that i hear myself tell it, i'm thinking maybe both of you are messing with me. what, you get the helmet monday through thursday, then brock takes it for the weekend...
okay. let's get serious. of course i know the cult of good is not good. ever since i saw what they did in atlanta, it has been my mission to expose them. i've followed them to oasisburg and soon will have enough hard evidence to bring them to real justice. that computer disc could be the final piece to the puzzle. this isn't just a story, selina--another damn pulitzer--this is my life.
we're waiting.
quiet, blender boy. i told you from the beginning, selina, i'm not a very good liar. i am not captain god, or whatever else he may be calling himself this month, but when i find out who is--the man will pay.  my sister died in that museum attack. you can check the atlanta obituaries. i've tracked these monsters from city to city, waiting for a time to exact my revenge. why else would i come to oasisburg and create the most obnoxious casino in the world?
did you ever think that maybe neither of us is captain god?
no-o. you know, questions like that don't help your cause--
i still can't get over it. i still can't believe you're catwoman..
i can. that's not an admission of guilt,  it's just..i knew you had it in you...
it may be time to get the police involved...
have you seen the oasisburg police? they drive golf carts with little red sirens.
we have to do something. what can we do to help, selina?
i'll let you know.

that's a good one, dude. he says we're going to kill you whether you tell us where the disc is or not.
quite a little performance you gave in the casino today--for me and that other guy. come on down, let's chat..
i got her...
i'm not going to worry about it. we are quite beyond the computer disc. everything will be over within the next hour or so.
yew'll be ovah in the naxt tehn minutes...
adonis, be polite. she's a friend.
how can you say things with such feeling and then turn around and put on a helmet and...who are you?  were you sitting on my right or my left at the card table?  tell me!  please tell me who you are; you own me that!
i know, i should probably tell you, but i just don't feel like it. to be honest, i'm really angry at you. i admired you so much more when you were purely wicked. i mean, look at you now, running around trying to "get to the bottom" of things. trying to "save the city." it's true we're about to do a very nasty deed, but really, what's it to you?  since when do you care what happens to a bunch of pathetic oasiburgians? you're just not yourself, anymore.
you know, nobody likes you...
yeah, all those women who went feline this afternoon...they're so ashamed now..
i'm supposed to be taking personality tips from you three?  you people were once heroes. you had ideals.  you fought for things.  spooky told me so...
do you have any idea how much superheroes get paid?  zilcho. urban vigilantes with secret identities operating outside the law. not exactly the stuff of a w-2 form.  if it wasn't for merchandising and corruption and these diabolical "missions"...there is no such thing as heroes and villains, anymore, selina.  there are only winners and losers. you lost. we won.
car wash, captain?
absolutely.
i've been looking for you.
i've been looking for you.  selina kyle was right. one of us is a psychotic crusader.
but then we knew that all along, didn't we...
i guess we did. when you were a little boy, did you want to be a superhero?
what little boy doesn't?
ah, the good guys always triumph in the end. it's what allows our children to sleep at night.
you can't get away with..
my, the perpetrator seems to be a bit on the "wild" side..
i'll put that in the report--after you shoot her.
quite a pair we make. thank you, jeff.
a couple that battles the forces of evil together is a couple that stays together.  thank you, jeff.
oh now, you put up a good fight. let's change the subject. where do people who live in oasisburg go to get away from it all?
somewhere very far away, very quiet, and very...  this is all wonderful, selina, but...but i'm afraid i can not rest until all my sister's killers are brought to justice...that one-armed monster..
this ring belonged to my sister. i'd love for you to...
it would be honor, brock. now let's go get this guy...
you're serious?  you'd help me...
in many ways, that obnoxious creep cactus was the worst one of all. he got off on giving out pain...
we'll hunt him down together...
i thought you said you weren't a very good liar.
i lied.
you've lost all motor functions. the poison will kill you in ten minutes.
hey, speaking of wrong place, wrong time.  lewis lane to the rescue!
priceless...we have a showdown in this alley, right?
don't you feel so much better now that you know everything?  blink once for yes, twice for..
boss, we better roll if we're going to hit this place, blow it up, and make that flight..
just hold on!  i'm not done. there are two kinds of men in the world, selina. in category a, you have me. in category b is everyone who wants to be in category a, but are too afraid, too weak..!
mom?  oh mom, i messed up...
what kind of name is "brock leviathan?"
i never thanked you..the arrow..the motorcycle..the computer disc..you're so different from what i..and so the same.
yes, i'm pretty amazing. you should see this...it came this evening.
they're going to attack frank's fun palace!
i hate it when you let your hair just hang like that...you have such pretty eyes...
mom, not now!  i, i don't know what to do..
yes, you do. you have to go rescue all those people...
but i'm not a hero. i'm nobody's heroine..i'm nothing. you've said so yourself many times.
do you always listen to what your mother says?  selina. something you choose your life. sometimes your life chooses you.  save the day..
i don't know if i can do it alone.
trust me, you won't have to.
god, can you hear me!
wha-at?
catwomen. lots of them!
oh come on, cactus, be a man!  the blimp is still on schedule, right?
i thought cats were supposed to have nine lives, not thirty one!  what do you think you're doing?
winning.
what do you want from me?
at this point, a nap. oh by the way, i killed your butler and your dog..
my dog!
oh honey, it's so much better when we do it without the helmet.
i've been thinking. i've been thinking about us. i'm sorry i've been so hard no you these past couple days. i realize now it's because you're the only woman who ever understood me and i couldn't handle it!  i've never revealed myself to anyone the way i have to you. let's blow this town together.  we'll run a bed-and-breakfast in vermont by day, and by night, we'll dress up and kill anything that...
pass!
you were right all along--the two parts to a person are the reality and the lie.  i was making good money as a top architect--but that's not who i am. i'm not an architect, i'm a..
i know, i know, a warrior. you're very annoying..now tell me how to defuse the bomb you've set..
will you please stop fighting?  just let those people die so we can get on with our new lives together!  trust me, one day we'll look back on this day and laugh. you got to admit, it's a lot more fun to be the villain.
you might be right, but fun is overrated.  i need something real.
well then, let's agree to disagree...now how about a picture for my scrapbook?
don't you realize there's nothing you can do, anyway!  nine minutes and it's all over!  the fun palace is a tomb. no one can get out. and choke on this furball: all doors and windows are blocked, locked, and electrified!  even the glass around the bomb is rigged.
even the skylight?
the "skylight?" fool!  it's too high for anybody to climb out the damn skylight...
what about "climbing in?"
