thank god -- thank god I have got you.
who is this?
you must not hang up.
do i know you?
I have been trying to get someone -- anyone.  for hours ...
if this is some sales pitch I am not buying --
you do not understand.
no.  you do not understand!  you caught me on my cellular on the way to pick up some business associates.  and I have got no time to screw around.
will you let me explain!
and what are you whispering for?
i can not talk any louder.  they might hear.
lady, try making some sense.
you may be our only chance.  i do not know if i can do this again.
what did you do!  just pick my number out of the air?
they smashed the phone.  I have been clicking the loose wires together hoping it would make a connection.
who smashed the phone?
they are holding my husband downstairs.
sure.  and they left you upstairs to make phone calls?
they gave me pills to make me sleep.  they did not realize how much seconal I am used to -- that I would have so much tolerance --
well I am not tolerant of being bothered with this bullshit story when I am about to make the most important score of my life.  this has got to be some "put-on," right?
I am sorry.  I am so sorry to do this to you.
you are not doing anything to me -- because -- listen to this carefully -- i do not care.
i do not believe you.
you are the one who is not to be believed.
my name is --
i do not want to know --
my name is lenore oberfeld.
do not expect me to tell you who i am.
i realize you do not want to be involved.
i am not involved.  keep clicking your little wires.  you will get someone else.  good luck.
you will not disconnect.
oh will not i?
because you know you will be killing us.
do not lay this on me!
then hang up!  do it!
why would anybody want to hurt you?
they tortured my husband.  made him give them the pin numbers of our accounts.  once they get what is in the safe deposit box they will kill us.
where did they take you to?
i have no idea.  they put us in the back of a van with blacked out windows.  the shutters up here are nailed shut.
well is not there a number on the goddam phone?
no -- nothing.
okay.  the police are gonna need your full name and address.
no!  no police.  they will know right away the authorities are looking for us.  they will kill us. we have seen their faces.
the cops could trace this call back to you.
one of them is a cop.
what makes you say that?
he pulled us over as we left the riviera tennis club.  claimed we would run a stop sign.  and when elliot was reaching for his license --
who?
elliot -- our driver.  the officer put his gun to the back of elliot's head and -- fired.  it was so quick.
oh man.  these people mean business.
then they took the mercedes away -- with his body in it.
listen, there is an overpass coming up.  i may lose you for a minute.
no don't.  you could lose me for good.  do not go through that tunnel.
I am in traffic.  there is no place to turn.
please.
shit!
hey buddy!  can you let me pull over?  give me some space to pull over.
where do you think you are going?
any place.
this is one way.
i know.  but it is an emergency. somebody dying.  okay?
i do not see anybody in there but you.
i would appreciate a little space. thank you.
fine, no tunnel.  are you still with me?  hello?
i hear them coming upstairs.  i will not be able to talk for awhile. i have to lay the phone down and pretend to be asleep.  so do not talk.  do not say a word or they will hear it.
i can not stay on this line.  I am picking people up.  I am already overdue.  hello?
who is on the phone?
I will explain later.  I am sort of on hold.
you switched license plates?
it is taken care of.
we have never worked a gig together but i am a firm believer in preparation.  so let's go over this again step by step.
not this minute.
what was that for?
you could have made me lose my call.
so what?  what could be important enough to put your hands on me?
i did not hurt you.
you could not hurt me.  but it is the principle.
that was definitely out of line and totally unprovoked.  i heard you were a hitter.
bullshit.
that is your "rep."
wait!  i hear her breathing now. there, she just picked it up again.
say something ...
me, he will not stay on the phone with for five fucking minutes without bitching.
I am trying to help somebody. okay?
he is at it again.  like that night at the emerald.  this piece of euro-trash is slapping shit out of his little wife in a back booth -- so mr. good deed here has got to step in and pound the fucker's head into the wall.  meantime "wifey" recovers enough to pull off her high heel and nearly take our hero's eye out.  it took six stitches.
how was i in the wrong?
be careful.  there were people in that crosswalk.
that is all we need.  better let me drive.
I am fine.  she is back on.  hello?  I am here.
they just walked out.  the smaller man -- he must be dominican or haitian -- he kicked me so hard. i felt a rib crack but i never made a sound.  it is starting to hurt now -- real bad.  a throbbing.  i can not even take a deep breath.
do not move around.  you do not want to puncture a lung.
was someone in an accident?
do i hear a woman's voice?
I am with two friends now.
rachel!  they are going after rachel now -- and i can not stop them.
stop throwing names at me.
rachel, my daughter.  she is an honor student at parker.  my god, she is only nine.
what do they need her for?
they know jack will give them what they want once they have her.
bottom line!  there is nothing i can do for you but tip the cops.
what do you mean tip the cops?  is the man a lunatic or what?
will you relax?  this in no way affects our business.  go on.
the bigger man is driving our mercedes to the school.  rachel will recognize the car.  she will get right in.
let me call the school -- tell them not to let her go.
they do not know you.  they will not listen.
he is right.  you will get my whole family killed.
he is right?  look, do not try to put blood on my hands.  you have got one hell of a nerve siding with him!
just hand up on the bitch!  fuck you, madam.  and goodbye!
that is what i deserve for listening in the first place.
I am sorry for whatever's happened to you but we are definitely not the right people to do you any good.
do not you have children?
matter of fact i did have a kid once.  but he is a lot better off with his father in milwaukee.
have you got to tell her your life story?
this is my conversation.  I will say what i fucking please.
wake up.  make a right at ocean avenue.  the hotel's a few blocks up on the left.
i know where it is.  give me that phone back.
I am not finished.  under other circumstances I would gladly go out of my way.  i do not understand why you just do not phone some other person.
she can't!  it is busted.  now hand that on back!
theo wants to talk again.
did you have to tell her my name?
"theo?"
forget who i am.  where is this school located?
26th off wilshire.
even if i got there first she would not go with me.
she would if she heard my voice on the phone.
i do not like anybody laying their hands on me.
just like they say; no fucking self control.
if you know that just back off.
shit.  there is the hotel.  you overshot the driveway.
and stop with the directions.
make a "u" and go back.
that is illegal.  you want us pulled over?  I will turn around at the corner if you will shut the fuck up.
you're doing all the talk.
will you two cut it out?
this mercedes of yours, what is it look like?
we still gotta run the drill before we walk in that lobby.
go ahead then.  I am covering the receiver.  she can not hear.
first off, this mr. chow yen does not speak a lot of english. the girl with him will interpret. there will be a third person to accompany you into the men's room where you can take count.  i hope you know krugerands better than they know a hockney.
i improved on the fucking original.
let's hope so.  once you come out and okay everything I will give caitlin the sign that she can bring the painting on over.
it is rolled up in the tube on the floor back there.
why is not anyone answering me?
just hang on.  I have got a life of my own.
what if they do question the authenticity?
oh.  seems yours girlfriend is casting doubts on your expertise.
i am not!  fuck you!  theo's a genius.
any trouble, we whip out our treasury department badges -- show them the wire I am wearing and read them their rights.  theo seizes the krugerands as evidence. naturally they start negotiating. offer to give us up somebody else. and we listen.  take notes on who bought what stolen art and tell them we have to clear it with our superiors at justice.  we pick up their passports -- escort them to their room and leave them all in the bathroom handcuffed to the plumbing.
will you please speak to me! theo?
another minute.
got your badge?
satisfied, wiseass?
in any event, whatever occurs you do not belt anybody.
what do you keep making me out to be?
okay, okay, lenore, calm down. either let me call the school or better yet, the f.b.i.
sure -- and they record your voice.  and later on we all get slammed for kidnap and murder. that is out!
he is right, theo.  she might not be around to back up your story. you could end up in the middle of this.
look -- I have got the lives of maybe three innocent people hanging on the end of this line.
i know you feel awful but it is not your responsibility.
then whose is it?
you gotta just look the other way.
I am sorry.  you will do all right without me.  keep my share.
hello?  it is just me and you again.
what about the others?
i kind of dropped them off.  they were getting on my nerves.
what are you doing now?
what do you think I am doing?  I am on my way to the school like you wanted.
forget about us.  just save rachel.
tell me what she looks like.
they say she resembles me -- dark hair, ponytail, very dark eyes. they all wear the same uniform.  please.  be careful.  the man driving the car must have a gun.
I am not looking to get myself killed.  i just hope the battery on this phone holds out.
where is the fucking recharger cord?  must be in her car, dammit.
how much time do you have left on it?
i do not know.  80 or 90 minutes, tops.
why did not you do what your friends wanted and just -- get rid of me?
i do not know.  i hung up on somebody else a long time ago, and later on i wished i had not of.
a woman?
hey drop it, okay?
i did not mean to open up any old wounds.
it never healed.  i called her a lying bitch and everything else and i hung up on her.  "click." you do not exist.
and that was the end of it?
i sure as hell got my wish.  she does not exist.  so maybe you reached the appropriate person after all.
I am sorry if i caused you to lose your business deal.
well you did.
what do you do for a living?
sometimes i paint.
our house always needs touching up.
pictures.
i did not mean to insult you. you are an artist.
they say my work is somewhat derivative.
i suppose if you are a struggling artist you need a patron.
lady, you do not have to keep up a running commentary.
I am afraid if i stop talking I will lose you.  just name any reasonable amount and it is yours.
shit, stop with the money!  i never asked for a nickel.  i was just doing this.  and you have to fuck it up with a price tag.
i did not mean to.  it is just the way i am.
a price on everything.
i was not always like that.  i do not think i was.
I am about ten blocks from the school.
i have no right to ask for help. I have never thought of anybody but myself.
that makes two of us.
you are breaking up.  i can not hear you.  theo?
there are cables overhead.  hang on.  it will clear up.
I have lost you.  you are gone.  i can not hear anything.
make a right.  you can not miss it.
I am making my turn.  i see the school up ahead.
lenore, I am here.  I am getting out.
i can hear you again, clearly.
great.  stay with me.  there must be a hundred kids out here.
does she have a red ribbon on that ponytail?
that is not her.
does she wear glasses?
no.
I have got to ask somebody.
what is happening?
she is gone --
do not say anything.  do not alarm them.  just go!
I am trying to.
he is copying down my license -- for all the good it will do him.
it is not your fault, theo.  you tried.
i should have put them out of the car and come sooner!
when jack sees they have got rachel he will tell them what they want to know.
you said they wanted to get into some particular safety deposit box?
the one in brentwood.
what bank?
the city national on san vincente.
wait just a minute.  our luck has changed.
what do you mean?
black mercedes, 600s.
I am not doing too well.  what is the matter?
i heard someone pulling in behind the house.  i heard rachel screaming and then she stopped all of a sudden.  i do not know what they did to her.
which means you can not be more than five or ten minutes from here.
even if you found us -- what then?
I am cutting across to bundy to brentwood.  that bank is our best bet.  if anybody shows up i could follow them.
jack will negotiate with them. he will identify the right key and give them the information they need to gain access and they will let rachel go.
not a chance.
do not say that.
do you know what is in that box?
I am not supposed to -- but i do. millions in cash and bearer bonds.
they will recognize it is not your husband.
jack was only at that branch once when he took the box years ago.
they have still got to be able to sign his name.
it is not hard to do.  i do it all the time.
I am pretty good at signatures myself.
oh my god.  i heard her scream again.  what are they doing to her?  why can not i do anything to stop them?
you are doing what you can.  why is all this money stashed?
to hide it from the i.r.s.
how come everybody turns out to be a crook?
do not talk.  do not talk!
what is going on?
the front door slammed.  someone went out.  there is a different car starting.
i might still get there first. the lights are with me.  how would i identify the guy who shows up at the bank?
if it is the tall man -- he had one of those hair transplants.  tufts, you know.  it still has not grown fully in.  the other one is from the islands.  braided hair -- very dark.
it will not be him.
theo, i want you to know, you are probably the most decent man I have ever met.
yeah, sure that is me.  ask anybody.
but i guess we have not really met -- have we?
I have got a lot of respect for you too.  for the way you feel about your family.
jack has not loved me for years. and now I am afraid she is turning out to be like him.  so cold and distant.  I have let him make her like that.
why tell me this?
because you are probably the last person I will ever talk to.
you can not give up.
when they first started questioning jack -- he answered them in that tone he usually reserves for me.  and they began beating him.  and i watched.  and i did not feel anything ... what kind of a person am i?
did you jiggle the phone?
no.
did you hear that click?
yes -- i think so.  another crossed line?
or somebody else there is listening in --
downstairs.  there must be an extension.  oh my god --
do not panic.  i might be wrong.  hello?  i guess i was wrong.
no.  i hear them.  they are coming upstairs.  they know!
try what you did before.  it worked before.  i will not talk anymore.
do not be afraid to say hello. your friend with the recent transplant is in no condition to deliver that briefcase.  so I have taken on the task.
who are you?
let me talk to the lady again.
there is no lady here.
if you have already killed her that is fine.  I will keep the bonds and the cash.  we got nothing to discuss.
hold on.
if her kid or her old man have been harmed we have also got nothing to talk about.
let her tell you.
yes?  yes?
hi lenore.  it is me.  i got you back.  courtesy of star 69.  are you hurt?
they dragged me downstairs.  i thought they were going to kill me.
lucky for them they didn't.
what did you do?
i had a little encounter at the bank and our mr. transplant ended up under the wheels of a chevy.
god, if he does not come back --
I am in possession of the bag he was carrying.  and I am in a position to negotiate.  what about your husband and your child?
they are tied with duct tape so they can not speak -- but they seem to be --
who are you working for?
I am self employed.  what kind of cut did the hairy one have?
twenty percent.
fine.  i want half.  plus the release of the family.
whatever you say.
you are making it too easy.
you got time on your side.  pretty soon they will be missed and we will have the law up our ass.
they saw you kill the driver.
you are up on your details, are not you?
you can rely on them to keep quiet because this is undeclared money that could land jack there in federal prison.  he can not afford for you to get caught and have this briefcase appear as evidence.
keep talking.
you are walking away with a clear fifty percent and a guarantee nobody can afford to i.d. you.
there are no guarantees in this life.
granted.  but i do not believe they are grieving enough for their chauffeur to piss away their own futures.
where do we meet?
it is a nice day.  how about the beach?
pass.
a large stretch of empty space with no place to hide.  temescal canyon parking lot.
what time frame have you got in mind?
it should take me twenty minutes. where are you coming from?
we can be there.
i want you all in one vehicle. your van.  if i see anybody else cruising around I will keep going. no second chances.  you can kill them and I will keep what I have got.
some loyalty.
there is no loyalty at the expense of my own ass.
tell the lady to relax.  tell her i can not wait to meet her in person.
she is somewhat damaged in the shipping.  but nothing makeup will not cover.
got a phone in that van?
sure.
take my number.  when you see me -- call me and I will walk you through the exchange.  it is 308-9962 -- repeat it back.
308-9962.
beats yelling our brains out across some parking lot.
you are getting a lot of mileage out of that cellular.
i wish it had never been invented.
since when did you guys start changing tires?
only you don't have a flat.
seems not.
if you were not going for a spare what were you doing?
something was rattling around. some loose tools.
mind if i have a look?
why are you picking on me for?
was i picking on you?  how come you pulled in back of this fruitstand?
tell the truth, i was going to take a much needed leak.
now that would be a misdemeanor.
i got to get going.  an agent is showing me a house up on broad beach in ten minutes.
they will wait.  meantime, raise the lid.
what did you do?  tail me from brentwood?
why would i do that?
let's have your license, mister.
I am going to level with you officer.
what is this?
see for yourself, federal agent, u.s. treasury.  on the job.
I am here.  where are you?
we do not see you.
I am three quarters of the way up the lot behind the concession stand.
stay there.
i do not want you within two hundred feet.  park down by the lifeguard station.  nobody gets out.
it is your call.
fucking "a" it is!  any argument and I am out of here.
just relax.
i do not need to relax.  the woman. put her on.
you will see her.
i do not want to see her later.  i want to hear her now.
talk to the man.
thank you.  god bless you for helping us.
are you okay?
they wrapped tape around my wrists and ankles.
that is coming off.  how about the girl?
she is awake but she has not spoken. i do not know what they did to her. i do not want to think about it.
your husband?
he is in back.  lying face down. they have not hurt him anymore -- but he was crying.  i never heard jack cry before --
you are all three of you in that van?
yes.
now you are going to do just what i tell you to.  no discussion.  no hesitation.
yes sir.
put the man back on.
satisfied?
you already tried to pull one little number on me -- and it did not work.
i do not know what you mean.
i still do not see you.
we are waiting for the light to cross the highway.  it just changed.  we are in a grey van.  it reads "noble carpet cleaners."
we are waiting on you.
then just wait.  I am counting this all out and deducting my share. while I am at it you can be getting that tape off the lady.  and her little girl.
it is in the process.
i make my end of the cash at 184,000.  now I am trying to figure out the bonds.  what the face value is.
you should have done all this before.
I am not accepting criticism today. now do not make me lose count. there is already a half million in this portfolio.
her husband said there would be one million eight.  so nine hundred to you.
my pleasure --
be careful in disposing of them. you will have to discount 'em. you will be lucky to clear a hundred and a quarter.
thanks for the sound advice.  now ask the woman to get out of the van and walk over here.  alone.
negative.
you will still have the girl and the husband.
and not a nickel.
soon as mrs. oberfeld is in my car I will toss out your first third. then I will back up 200 feet to behind the public restroom.
and then?
you pull up -- collect your first installment.  then you let the daughter go.  when she reaches me, I will dump out another third.  same action.  i back up again -- you pull forward.  satisfy yourself it is there.  then we do it one last time.  the final exchange. and we go our separate ways.
and they run straight to the cops who start looking for our van.
i will not let 'em.
lenore -- you promised you would follow instructions.  we are almost there.  simply get out when they slide the van open and walk to me.
I am not leaving my daughter behind.  not with them.
she is next.  in two or three more minutes she will be free.
i can not do it.
do not start thinking about it.  is the tape off?
yes.
can you walk?
yes.  but i want rachel to come with me.
they will not allow that.  it is one at a time.  and you have to be first.
why can not it be her?
she is a child.  she might panic. she does not know me.  she might not come to me.  she might just run.
all right.  now that you explain it i see that you are right.
once you are in the car with me she is sure to come to us.
I am sorry.  you have thought this out better than i ever could.  I am ready now.
I am opening the side door.  she will step out.  but before she gets in your vehicle i want to see the first installment put down in plain view.  if it is not there I am shooting her in the back.
are you trying to panic the women?
that is how it is.  you see her approaching you toss out installment one.
I am tying it up in a bundle now. where is she?
rachel -- oh my god.
just start walking.  come on. walk to me.
it is locked.
shit.  I am sorry.
stop the crying.
she is yours.  what are we waiting on?
I am backing up.
rachel was terrified when i left her.  i could see it in her eyes.
she will be with you soon.  they are pulling up.  they will realize i kept my part of the bargain.
she will never be the same.  none of us will.
include me in that.
count it.
do not worry.
next i want to see rachel.  put her on the phone before she gets out so her mother can tell her exactly what to do.  keep her calm.  tell her you are fine and that she can join you in this car.
now i have -- it is a long story.
why did not you just shoot them?
because a lot of people would have gotten killed.  probably all the wrong ones.
you are going to let them get away with this?
we have almost got your husband and your daughter out.  so do not get any ideas.
they tortured us.  and you are going to let them have all that money?
so far they are keeping their part of it.
they put their hands all over me.
somehow i got along better with you on the phone.  it is all there is not it?
seems like it.
put the girl on.
for christ sakes do not point it at me.  we want to get rachel out of there in one piece.  I am waiting for the girl.  her mother wants to talk to her.
hand me the phone.
he had a gun.  i have it now.
why are you telling him that.  are you crazy?
the rest of the money is here in the car.  why do not you come and get it?
yeah.  why do not we?
what are you planning to do when they got here?  they will kill us. they will kill rachel.
you are not lenore oberfeld.
there is not any such person.
whose money is this?
it belongs to the man you took it from.  or should i saw stole it from?
the guy with the transplant.
jack oberfeld in person.  did you kill him?
damned if i know.
the video cameras will put you with him in the bank, and I will bet there were enough witnesses.
at least one.
plus they will remember you going after his daughter at school.
you timed that beautifully.
they always pick rachel up early on thursday.
i got what i fucking deserved.  i had it all.  i could have kept going!
as they say -- no good deed goes unpunished.
and all that crap about your driver being murdered by a cop --
i thought it was inspired.
there was no cop involved.  oh shit!  fuck!
sit completely still with both hands on the wheel -- until they get here.
why pick me to be your "mark?"
nobody's easier to con than a con man.
you knew about me.
who is in back?
l.a.p.d.
shit.  you could not be in much worse shape.
your friends are probably still on the line.  pick it up and say hello.
there is no way out for you.  you have to deal with us.
assure them that you are being well treated.
i thought you said you could handle him.
I am doing fine.  theo wants to deal.
tell them I am keeping what is left. i earned it.  i probably killed some poor bastard for it.
he seems to think he is entitled to it all.
not all.  they already have a third.  the question is how much of that are they willing to give to get you back?
you will not shoot me.  that is not your style.
we might hit a bump and the gun might go off.  ever see that tarantino movie -- where travolta blew that guy away in the back seat -- purely by accident?
do you have to point that?
absolutely.  and topanga canyon has a hell of a lot of potholes if i recall.
he seems to be headed for topanga.
I am not trying to lose them.  nor am i exceeding any speed limits.
the one thing you do not want is to attract the police.
granted, the cops are not an alternative.  certainly not with one of their own still locked in my trunk.
i do not hear him moving around anymore.
those shots your associates got off may not have done him too much good.  that is on their head.  all i did i was put him there.
a typical fuck-up.
what is that supposed to me?
i knew you were a loser the first night i laid eyes on you.
you, i would have noticed.
oh no, you were too busy trying to keep some croatian from slapping the shit out of his girlfriend. she showed her gratitude by almost taking your eye out with her spiked heel.
you were at the emerald that night?
naturally you did not learn your lesson.
i guess i ought to stop seeing woman as victims.
i think it was my tone of voice more than anything else that sold you.  and when you thought i was being kicked around, i wish i could have seen your face.
you are enjoying this too much.
now you are starting to sound like a victim again.
you could have hit me.
only in the leg or the thigh. you would live but you just would not wear shorts.
you would not --
yes i would.  not kill you.  but blow off a few toes, absolutely. I am entitled to that as retribution.  it will help you to remember me in years to come -- every time you put on stockings. they must have prosthetic toes by now -- with little nails on them you can polish --
stop talking like that!
then scream for me.  a repeat performance.  let me see how easy you can turn it on.  scream!  i want to hear you scream for me!
what is he doing?  answer me!
better reassure him.
I am still okay.
inform him the fee is seventy-five large for your return.  all parts intact.
he wants 75 back.
plus names, addresses and i.d. for the lot of you.  we are in this together and i need to know who my partners are.  in case i ever need to roll over on somebody.
did you hear that?
let me talk to him.  hold the phone to my ear -- but do not nudge me.
who am i talking to?
call me "nels."
okay nels, you can always keep what you have got and haul ass leaving the lovely lady for me to worry about.  I will bet she can be friendly when it is in her best interests.
if you are looking for a quickie all you have got to do is ask.
i think I have already had a "quickie."  thank you.
it could be a fire.  this is malibu.
no, there is a police car way back there.  see it, in the distance coming around the turn?  the van is blocking it now.
what is nels' number?
259-7881.
dial him up.  we need him to run interference.
nels, do not let that cop pass you.
what am i supposed to do?
if he pulls me over he gets all the proceeds plus lenore here.
and if you ditch us we get zilch.
sure, i end up with some cash. and a lot of bonds i do not know how to dispose of.
you are going to have to see to it that both lanes of this road get blocked.
the fuck i will!
it is in your interest, nels, since the additional passenger in my trunk -- an lapd officer is probably carrying a few bullets in him traceable to the piece you are carrying.  tell the man.
lose the hardware now.
we will toss it when we make the blind curve.
you researched me.  you know where i live.  she will be waiting for you there along with your split.
there is two police cars now.
tailgate me.  I will jam on the brakes.  you go into a spin to avoid an accident and cut them off.
you want us to get ourselves killed?
from what i can see you are a pretty fair wheelman.  there is a hairpin coming up -- that is the place for it. the cops'll plow right into you.
and i end up in a fucking neck brace for life!
then you can sue the cops. collect from both ends.  tighten your belts.  here it comes.  ready?
do you think they will walk away?
ask them.
are you guys all right?
you could have killed us.
it was the fugitive in the chrysler that caused this.  we were trying to overtake him.
no reason to kill innocent bystanders.  shit.  i can not hardly move my neck.
we have already got an ambulance on the way.  do not try to get out.
I am not staying in here with him puking all over the place.  get this door open!
they will have units blocking us up ahead.
that is why we are turning off onto a fire road.
some people fall apart in a pinch. but you shine.
what is happening?
i can not hear.  now there is a siren.  they must be in an ambulance.  what about the money?  nels?
wonderful feeling of security knowing your adversaries are both crippled and unarmed.
the money, nels ... ?
any idea where you are going?
i was sentenced to a youth camp out here when i was fourteen.  we cleared some of these same roads.
they did some great job of reforming you.
that is where this chicano correctional officer first taught me to slap paint on a canvas.  i could copy any fucking thing he put in front of me.
think you could do a picture of me?
i had it in my mind what you would look like.  "her," i could have painted.  you, I would be afraid to turn my back to mix the colors.
developer ran out of money years back.  I would hate to think about what is living in there.
why are we stopping?
i need a break.  I have been on a marathon run ever since i had the misfortune to strike up a conversation with you.
who would ever think, to look at you?
as a child i hated being told how sweet i looked.  that angelic little face was not me at all.  i had to hurt people to prove to them they had the wrong image. sometimes words were enough -- but i was not beyond inflicting physical pain in order to be taken seriously.  i enjoyed seeing the shock on their poor faces when they realized who i was.  that same look you gave me when i turned the gun on you.
you have had a lot of fun with me today.  what would you have done if i had not responded to your call?
we had a backup plan.  but i knew you would come through for me.
yeah, i was waiting for that suggestion.
sooner or later you will learn to trust me.
how about "later?"
what is really on your wicked little mind?
the cop in the trunk -- he could still be alive.
that is a reasonable possibility.
he might have heard everything we said in the car.
what is your point?
we can not leave him to repeat anything.
which one of us is elected to do the deed?
you are the man with the gun.
naturally.
naturally.
maybe your friends already accomplished that chore for us.
only one way to find out.
lady, do not let him do it!
you got it wrong.  I am the one that is on your side.
you almost brain me and lock me in a fucking trunk and you are on my side?  you stupid fuck!
he is seen both of us now.
look, I have got a wife.  i do not care if either of you ever get caught.
what else did you expect him to say?  do it, theo -- or give me the gun.
I am going to cuff you and leave you in that house.  it may take awhile but you will be found after we are long gone.
that is not good enough.
that is how it is going to be.
nels reporting in.  sit down where you are.  arms folded.
yes sir.
yeah?
i just strolled out of the emergency room while they were admitting rodriego.
you could not be calling at a worse time, nels.
I am handling it.
he let the fucking cop out -- but he will not --
it took you long enough to get my ass out.
with all those holes nels pumped in i knew you would not suffocate.
you can tell she was really worried about me.
in case you crapped out it was my job to go after that briefcase.
or relieve me of it later.
only i was sloppy.  i let you take me out.  that was quite a humiliation.
do not fuck around.  pop a cap in him.
allow me.
he took it like a man.  toss him in that drainage ditch.
there is a taxi stand here.  i can meet you.
you missed.
any time you decide to let me in on it.
i prefer to have the sucker die at a more convenient location.  once nels arrives with his backpack full of goodies.
so theo and nels will appear to have whacked each other out and we never existed.  a thing of beauty. jesus, the shit you come up with!
now turn around.  I am going to cuff you.
put those away.  we can not have marks on his wrists.
you never miss a trick.
I will see that he stays calm.  pack the money up and put it in the trunk.
how do we get back to the freeway?
bear right till the fire road ends.  it is not far.
both hands on your lap.
nothing but cds in there.  i thought maybe you would like some celine or whitney.
yeah, i suppose getting whacked has got to be one of your best ways to die.  particularly if you are not expecting it.  you do not know what hit you.
can you make him stop!
mind letting me make the best of a rotten situation?
just sitting here listening to her voice does it to me all over again.  no harm admitting i fell in love with the sound of you.
that is a skill you acquire when you do fantasy phone sex for a living. i must have had thirty regulars salivating at 4.99 per minute.
some nice fantasy you all cooked up for me.
took preparation.
exactly who was this oberfeld?
local lawyer for dominican dealers.  off to buy a half interest in a mall in granada hills on their behalf.
which is why we had a lot more to worry about than the law.  these are people who do not worry about reading you your rights.
I am the one they would be looking for.
what are you doing on theo's line?
taking messages.
he ran out on me to be with you? well fuck him!  everything worked twice as good without him.  we did not need him then and i do not need him now.
I am sure he will be heartbroken.
i know he is there!  he does not even have the balls to pick up the phone!
i will not let him.  he belongs to me now.  bye, sweetie.
know what else is in here?
take your hand out of there. slowly.
think about what is going to happen to your valuables when that trunk flies open at 75 miles per?
you will not live to see it.
it is going to be some fucking snowstorm.
pull over!  pull over someplace.
i told you i should have cuffed him.
i want the gun emptied.  i want to see all six slugs tossed up here. and then i want out.  that is all. out!
five ... six.
toss them -- one at a time.  i do not want to lose count.
i already called for an ambulance.
you have got a phone?
does not everybody?
can i make a quick call?
government business?
very official.  259-7881, if i recall.
yeah?
nels!  guess who?  a friendly voice from beyond the grave.
who is this?
i thought you would know me by now.
what does it take to kill you?
i suppose you are in your taxi?
why would she want me to think you were on ice?
intelligent question, nels.  i believe she had plans for both our bodies to be found in close proximity.
that bitch.  what is keeping you from taking off?
my compensation!  somebody still owes me -- big time!
what kind of treasury dept. business is this?
undercover.
i thought so.
your partners are currently armed and we are not.  our edge is that they do not know we are in touch.
i can see the benefit in that.
you could always disappear with what is already in your backpack.
not without the name of the contact who can discount the bonds.  i may need to pry that information out of her.  what do you stand to gain?
sweet revenge plus maybe a bit of vigorish off your end.
the 405 is coming up.
where is this canyon house where you are supposed to hook up?
in the hills above sunset.  just below the getty.
take the 405 south.
how far off are you?
five minutes.
where do i turn?
take the getty center exit -- make a right onto cisco.  it will be a narrow winding road.  you can not miss the house.  it is a mansion built back in '29 -- spanish -- boarded up since the quake.
have your cab wait at the foot of cisco -- we will ride up together.
and make ourselves a hell of a target.
we are going to get there first.
how do you know?
believe me.  they could not be busier at the moment.
let's have your name and address. the government will want to send you a letter of commendation.
who the fuck you kidding?  send me money!
you sure know how to take a lot of punishment.
from here on, i dish it out.
better haul ass if we are going to be inside to greet them.
I have got a couple of spare pieces stashed under the floorboards.
where is the backpack?
none of your business, but it is in the cab.  that is all mine.  when we take from them, we divide, eighty-twenty.
at those prices I would just as soon your cabbie did not get a look at me.
probably as close to the getty as I will ever come.  unless you care to be my "patron," nels.  you would not be the first successful thief to become a patron of the arts.
in your dreams.
do not underestimate me.  I have got original ideas of my own.  warhol got famous doing a soup can.  what would you think of a cellular phone done in acrylics?
are you busting my chops or what?
somebody better tear this down before it falls down.
stay put!  i know my way around.
nels?
I am still in my cab -- jammed up in traffic.  are you there yet?
any minute.
i was worried about you.  both of you.
we have had our share of fuck-ups but it is going to work out fine.
give me 20 minutes at least.
who were you talking to?
them.  they will not be expecting us.
brilliant -- unless they were close enough to see the cab pull away.  in which case you just warned them.
nobody can do anything right but you!
I am in awe.
following which we will have a serious question and answer session with your girlfriend.
oh god -- oh no -- help me -- do not let me -- die.
did not we play this scene before?
do not leave me here to die -- theo, please -- you can not let me die --
I am afraid I have used up all my good deeds for the day.
i picked the wrong number when i chose you ... did not i?
turns out you did me a favor. you are looking at a rich man.
-- the phones, theo.  do not leave any of them behind.  the cops could pull up a record of all our calls and -- find you.
I have got ... one last number for you, theo ...
i do not want it.
my fence in san francisco ... 305-4410.  maurice.  do not take less than a third on the face value of those bonds.
sure, like I am going to take advice from you.
i told you ... sooner or later you would have to trust me ...
