oh, la.
do not tell me you did not know it was loaded.  sylvie!
is not there something constructive he can do -- like start an avalanche?
va jouer, mon ange.
sylvie -- I am getting a divorce.
a alors! from charles?
he is the only husband I have got. i tried to make it work, i really have -- but --
but what?
i do not know how to explain it. I am just too miserable.
but why do you want a divorce?
because i do not love him.
but that is no reason to get a divorce!
with a rich husband and this year's clothes you will not find it difficult to make some new friends.
i admit i moved to paris because i was tired of american provincial,
oh, forgive me.  is this yours?
it is hers. where did you find him, robbing a bank?
he was throwing snowballs at baron rothschild.  we do not know each other, do we?
why, do you think we are going to?
i do not know -- how would i know?
I am afraid i already know a great many people. until one of them dies i could not possibly meet anyone else.
yes, of course. but you will let me know if anyone goes on the critical list
quitter.
how is that?
you give up awfully easy, do not you?
clever fellow -- almost missed me.
I am afraid you are blocking my view.
sorry. which view would you like?
the one you are blocking. this is the last chance i have -- I am flying back to paris this afternoon. what is your name?
peter joshua.
I am regina lampert.
is there a mr. lampert?
yes.
good for you.
no, it isn't. I am getting a divorce.
please, not on my account.
no, you see, i do not really love him.
well, you are honest, anyway.
yes, i am -- I am compulsive about it -- dishonesty infuriates me. like when you go into a drugstore.
I am not sure i --
well, you go in and you ask for some toothpaste -- the small size -- and the man brings you the large size. you tell him you wanted the small size but he says the large size is the small size. i always thought the large size was the largest size, but he says that the family size, the economy size and the giant size are all larger than the large size -- that the large size is the smallest size there is.
oh. i guess.
is there a mrs. joshua?
yes, but we are divorced.
that was not a proposal -- i was just curious.
is your husband with you?
oh, charles is hardly ever with me. first it was separate rooms -- now we are trying it with cities. what do people call you -- pete?
mr. joshua.  well, I have enjoyed talking with you.
now you are angry.
no, I am not -- I have got some packing to do. I am also going back to paris today.
oh. well, was not it shakespeare who said: "when strangers do meet they should erelong see one another again"?
shakespeare never said that.
how do you know?
it is terrible -- you just made it up.
well, the idea's right, anyway. are you going to call me?
are you in the book?
charles is.
is there only one charles lampert?
he knows everything.
do not you want me to stay?
yes, of course -- but if you went back and wrote me a letter --
-- you could have the stamps. I will get you some here, okay?
okay.
yes.
i am inspector edouard grandpierre of the police judiciaire. would you be so kind as to come with me, please?
you loved him?
I am very cold.
we discovered your husband's body lying next to the tracks of the paris- bourdeaux railroad line. he was dressed only in his pajamas. do you know of any reason why he might have wished to leave france?
leave?
your husband possessed a ticket of passage on the 'maranguape.' it sailed from bordeaux for maracaibo this morning at seven.
I am very confused.
he was american?
swiss.
oh. swiss. his profession?
he did not have one.
he was a wealthy man?
i do not know. i suppose so.
about how wealthy would you say?
i do not know.
where did he keep his money?
i do not know.
besides yourself, who is his nearest relation?
i do not know.
c'est absurde, madame. to-tale-ment absurde!
i know.  I am sorry.
it is all right.
is it all right?
i wish you wouldn't.
one wallet containing four thousand francs -- one agenda --  -- his last notation was made yesterday -- thursday --  "five p.m. -- jardin des champs- elyses"  why there?
i do not know. perhaps he met somebody.
obviously.  one ticket of passage to south america -- one letter, stamped but unsealed, addressed to you --
a letter? may i see it?
"my dear regina: i hope you are enjoying your holiday. megeve can be so lovely this time of year. the days pass very slowly and i hope to see you soon. as always, charles. p.s. your dentist called yesterday. your appointment has been changed."  not very much, is it?
we took the liberty of calling your dentist -- we thought, perhaps, we would learn something.
did you?
yes. your appointment has been changed.  one key to your apartment -- one comb -- one fountain pen --  one toothbrush -- one tin of tooth powder  -- that is all.
if you will sign this list you may take the things with you.
is that all? can i go now?
one more question. is this your husband's passport?
of course it is.
and this?
i do not understand.
and this? and this?
what are you doing here?
i phoned but nobody answered. i wanted to tell you how sorry i am -- and to find out if there was anything i could do.
how did you find out?
it is in all the afternoon papers. I am very sorry.
thank you.
i rang the bell but i do not think it is working.
yes it is -- i heard it this morning.
where did everything go?
charles sold it all -- at auction.
do you know what you are going to do?
try and get my old job back at unesco, i suppose.
doing what?
I am a simultaneous translator -- like sylvie, only she is english to french -- I am french to english. that is what i did before i married charles. the police probably think i killed him.
instant divorce you mean?
something like that. but I am sorry it ended like this -- tossed off a train like a sack of third-class mail.
come on. you can not stay here.
i do not know where to go.
we will find you a hotel.
not too expensive -- I am not a lady of leisure anymore.
something modest but clean -- and near enough to unesco so you can take a cab when it rains -- okay?
it is not exactly what I would call a large turn-out.
did not charles have any friends?
do not ask me -- I am only the widow.  if charles had died in bed we would not even have him.
at least he knows how to behave at funerals.
have you no idea who could have done it?
until two days ago all i really knew about charles was his name -- now it turns out i did not even know that.
do you know him?
I have never seen him before.
he must have known charles pretty well.
how can you tell?
he is allergic to him.
miz lampert, ma'am...
yes?
charlie had no call to handling it this-a-way. he sure didn't. no siree.
i do not understa--
who is it from?
the american embassy.
what is it about?
i do not know.  but if this is a sample of american diplomacy I am buying a fallout shelter.
I am sorry -- my secretary must have gone to lunch. you are -- ?
mrs. lampert -- mrs. charles lampert.
come in, mrs. lampert. you are quite late.
dry-cleaningwise, things are all fouled up. i had a good man -- an excellent man on the rue ponthieu, but h.q. asked us to use the plant here in the building -- to ease the gold outflow.
mr. bartholomew -- are you sure you know who i am?
charles lampert's widow -- yes?  last time i sent out a tie only the spot came back.
have some, please. I have got...  ...liverwurst -- liverwurst -- chicken and -- liverwurst.
no thanks.
do you know what c.i.a. is, mrs. lampert?
i do not suppose it is an airline, is it?
central intelligence agency -- c.i.a.
you mean spies and things like that?
only we call them agents.
we? you mean you are --?
someone has to do it, mrs. lampert --
I am sorry, it is just that i did not think that you people were supposed to admit --
I am not an agent, mrs. lampert -- I am an administrator -- a desk jockey -- trying to run a bureau of overworked men with under-allocated funds. congress seems to think that all a spy needs --
agent.
yes -- that all he needs is a code book and a cyanide pill and he is in business.
what is all this got to do with me, mr. bartholomew?
your husband was wanted by the u. s. government.
may i have a sandwich, please?
to be more specific, he was wanted by this agency.
so that was it.
yes. we knew him, of course, by his real name.
his -- real -- ?
voss -- charles voss. all right, mrs. voss --  -- I would like you to look at this photograph, please -- by the way, you saw this one, did not you?  scott, cathy, and ham, jr.
very sweet.
are not they?  now look at this one, mrs. voss, and --
stop calling me that! lampert's the name on the marriage license.
yes -- and tell me if you recognize anyone. just a moment. have a good look.
it is charles!
very good.
he looks so young -- when was this taken?
1944. the next face, please.
it is the man who came to the funeral yesterday -- I am sure of it -- a tall man in a corduroy suit and string tie.
does the name tex penthollow mean anything to you?
no.
next, please.
yes -- and he was there, too -- a little fatter now -- and less hair -- but it is the same one.
do you know him, mrs. vo -- mrs. lampert? leopold w. gideon?
no.
the last one, please.
that is a face you do not forget -- he was there too --
herman scobie. and you have never seen him before, either?
no, thank heaven.
mrs. lampert, I am afraid you are in a great deal of danger.
danger? why should i be in any danger?
you are charles voss's wife -- now that he is dead you are their only lead.
mr. bartholomew -- if you are trying to frighten me you are doing a really first-rate job!
please, do what we ask, mrs. lampert -- it is your only chance.
gladly, only i do not know what you want! you have not told me.
oh, have not i? the money -- mrs. lampert -- the money. the $250,000 charles voss received from the auction. those three men want it, too -- they want it very badly.
but it is charles's money, not theirs.
oh, mrs. lampert! I would love to see you try and convince them of that!  oh, dear.
then whose is it? his or theirs?
ours.
oh, i see.
and I am afraid we want it back.
but i do not have it.
that is impossible. you are the only one who could have it.
I am sorry it is impossible. it is the truth.
i believe you.
thanks very much.
oh, you have got the money all right -- you just do not know you have got it.
mr. bartholomew -- if i had a quarter of a million dollars, believe me, I would know it.
nevertheless, mrs lampert -- you have got it.
you mean it is just lying around someplace -- all that cash?
or a safe deposit key, a certified check, a baggage claim -- you look for it, mrs. lampert -- I am quite sure you will find it.
but --
look for it, mrs. lampert -- look just as hard and as fast as you can. you may not have a great deal of time. those men know you have it just as surely as we do. you will not be safe until the money's in our hands. is that clear?
here's where you are to call me -- day or night. it is a direct line to both my office and my apartment. do not lose it, mrs. lampert -- and please do not tell anyone about coming to see me. it could prove fatal for them as well as yourself.
wait a minute -- you think those three men killed charles, do not you?
we have no proof, of course, but we rather think so, yes.
well, there you are! charles had the money with him -- so whoever killed him has it -- they have it!
why not?
because they are still here.
oh.
like i said, mrs lampert -- I am afraid you are in a great deal of danger. remember what happened to charles.
hallo, peter.
you telephoned me to meet you. I have been standing on the corner back there -- waiting for you.
I am sorry -- i heard the children laughing.
what is going on?
do not you understand french?
I am still having trouble with english.
the man and the woman are married --
of course? i thought he was dead.
he is only pretending, to teach her a lesson -- only --  only he is dead, peter -- i saw him -- he is not pretending. somebody threw him off a train. what am i going to do?
right there, between your eyes -- see? worry lines. you are much too young and too pretty to have anything like that. how about making me vice- president in charge of cheering you up?
starting tonight?
what was all that?
fun and games. evidently we are the floorshow.
you mean you and me?
no, everyone. come on -- avanti, avanti!
en garde.
lay on, macduff.
mrs. lampert --
what do you want?
did not charles tell you, mrs. lampert?
tell me what?
it does not belong to you, mrs. lampert -- you do know that, do not you?
i do not know anything.
mrs. lampert, any morning now you could wake up dead.
leave me alone -- !
dead, mrs. lampert -- like last week's news -- like charles, mrs. lampert --
stop it!
howdy, miz lampert.
wha -- what do you want?
you know what i want, miz lampert...
no -- no, I am don't.
come on now -- sure you do. an' you would better give it to me, miz lampert -- cuz i am not foolin'. no sireebob!
stop that!
do not make too much noise, miz lampert --
it belongs to me, miz lampert -- an' if you do not give it to me your life am not going to be worth the paper it is printed on. you savvy what I am sayin', miz lampert?
please stop -- please!
you think on it real careful-like, miz lampert -- y'hear?
what are you doing in here?
having a nervous breakdown.
you have not said a word since we left the club -- what happened back there?
i -- I am not sure if I am supposed to tell you or not.
i do not think i follow you.
he said if i told anybody it could prove fatal for them as well as me.
who said?
that is what I am not supposed to say.
stop this nonsense! if you are in some sort of trouble i want to know about it.
stop bullying me. everybody's bullying me.
i was not --
yes, you were -- you called it nonsense. being murdered in cold blood is not nonsense. wait until it happens to you sometime.
you said this afternoon that your husband was mixed up in something.
how do you shave in there?
what was it?
what was what?
what your husband was mixed up in.
look, i know it is asking you to stretch your imagination, but can not you pretend for a moment that I am a woman and that you are a --
do not you know i could already be arrested for transporting a minor above the first floor?
we are here.
where?
on the street where you live.
how about once more around the park?
him: 'do you mind if i come in for a nightcap, reggie?' her: 'well -- it is awfully late.' him: 'just one, all right?' her: 'promise you will behave yourself.' him: 'sorry, baby, i never make promises i can not keep.'
how would you like a spanking?
how would you like a punch in the nose? stop treating me like a child.
then stop acting like one. if you are really in some kind of trouble, I would like to hear about it. otherwise, it is late, I am tired and I am going home to bed.
do you know what is wrong with you?
what?
nothing. good night.
good night.
peter -- are you all right?
i think i sprained my pride.  where did he go?
out of the window, i guess -- i did not see him.
lock the door and the window -- and do not let anyone in except me. I will be back in a minute.
be careful, peter.
you took the words right out of my mouth.
that was a dumb move, herman -- a dumb move.
and then some. if you would only told us you was goin' to her room we could have kept 'em busy --
we took all the chances. the money belongs to us, not him!
do not be un-neighborly-like, herman -- do not forget he done us a little old favor.
yeah? what is that?
he took care of charlie for us.
shoot no, not after all these years.
then he gets it out of your share, not mine! not mine!
i suggest you get about your business -- nothing soothes herman like success.
that is right -- it is like ticklin' a alligator's belly.
there was no trace of him. all right, reggie -- suppose you tell me what this is all about.
there are three men -- he is one of them -- they think i have something that belongs to them.
what?
a quarter of a million dollars.
go on.
that is all.
no, it is not -- where is the money?
i do not know.  those men killed charles to get it. but he must not have had it with him on the train.
so they think he left it with you.
but he didn't! I have looked everywhere --  and if i do not find it --  those men going to kill me.
no, they will not -- i will not let them.
please help me, peter -- you are the only one i can trust.
of course I will help -- i told you i would, did not i? come on now --
I am so hungry i could faint.  I have -- I have gotten your suit all wet.
that is all right -- it is a drip-dry.
peter, you have got to promise me something. promise you will never lie the way charles did. why do people have to tell lies?
usually it is because they want something -- and they are afraid the truth will not get it for them.
do you tell lies?
who is it?
the man you had the fight with.
yes -- that is right.
what is it, reggie -- what is he saying?
what did he say?
he -- he said if i did not give the money, he will kill me.
i would not take that too seriously.
i believe what he said.
they are only trying to scare you, that is all.
how do you know what they are doing?
i do not -- but as long as they think you have the money, or know where it is, or have it without knowing where it is, or do not even know you have it --
what are you talking about?
you must not let what he said bother you. it was only words.
words can hurt very much.
go to sleep -- I will see you in the morning.
do not put yourself out.
hey -- I am on your side. remember that.
yes, I will remember. good night.
good night.
i do not know who this mr. dyle is, but it is just possible we were wrong about who killed your husband.
you mean he might have -- mr. bartholomew, I am catching the next plane out of here -- I am not going to sit here and wait for someone to make chopped liver out of me!
where are you now -- can you meet me? do you know les halles?
yes, where?  -- in fifteen minutes. I will be there.
what did you want to see me about, mr. bartholomew?
were you followed?
yes, but i lost him. i really did it quite brilliantly. I am beginning to think women make the best spies.
agents.
he has a gun, mr. bartholomew -- i saw it.
who?
dyle, or whatever his name is.
what does your mr. dyle look like, mrs. lampert?
he is hardly my mr. dyle.
describe him.
well -- he is tall -- over six feet -- rather thin -- in good physical shape, I would say -- dark eyes -- quite handsome, really.
no.
no, what?
that is not carson dyle.
carson?
there is only one dyle connected with this affair, mrs. lampert -- that is carson.
you mean you have known about him all along? why did not you tell me?
mr. bartholomew -- why did not you tell me you knew about dyle?
i did not see any point. dyle's dead.
dead? mr. bartholomew -- maybe you would better tell me what this thing's all about.
i suppose you are old enough to have heard of world war two?
barely, yes.
in 1944, five members of the o.s.s. -- the military espionage unit -- were ordered behind the german lines for the purpose of delivering $250,000 in gold to the french underground. the five men --
caf.
gratine, choucroute garnie, salade de pommes -- et un ballon de rouge.
mrs. lampert, i really had not planned on spending the entire night here.
can i at least keep the onion soup?
go on, please -- five men -- $250,000 -- the french underground --
yes. the five men. they were, of course, your husband, charles, the three men who showed up at his funeral yesterday, and carson dyle. but something went wrong and they were unable to locate their contact. it must have been at that point that they decided to steal the money.
steal it how?
by burying it, and then reporting that the germans had captured it. all they had to do was come back after the war, dig it up and split it five ways -- a quarter of a million dollars with no questions asked.
may i have a cigarette, please?
have you any idea what these things cost over here?
please go on, mr. bartholomew -- what happened then?
scobie was able to travel, but carson dyle was clearly dying, so they --
carson was dying so they were forced to leave him. they finally got back to the base, made their report, and waited for the war to end. only charles could not wait quite as long as the others. he beat them back to the gold, took everything for himself and disappeared. it is taken gideon, tex and scobie all this time to catch up with him again.
but if they stole all that money -- why can not you arrest them?
we know what happened from the bits and pieces we were able to paste together -- but we still have no proof.
but what has all this got to do with the c.i.o.?
c.i.a., mrs. lampert. we are an extension of the wartime o.s.s. it was our money and we want it back.
I am sorry, mr. bartholomew, but nothing you have told me has changed my mind. i still intend leaving paris -- tonight.
i would not advise that, mrs. lampert. you would better consider what happened to your husband when he tried to leave. those men will not be very far away -- no matter where you go. in fact, i do not even see any point in your changing hotels. please help us, mrs. lampert. your government is counting on you.
well, if I am going to die, i might as well do it for my country.
that is the spirit.
oh, stop it. what do you want me to do?
we are anxious to know who this man is -- the one calling himself dyle.
maybe he really is dyle. he could still be alive.
no, mrs. lampert.
but no one actually saw him die.
no, mrs. lampert. his death is registered with the war department in washington.
oh. then who is this one?
i do not know -- but i think you would better find out, do not you?
me? why me?
you are in an ideal position -- he trusts you.  besides, you said yourself, women make the best spies.
agents.
good morning, mr. dyle.
reggie?
it is the only name I have got. how about you?
no cat and mouse -- you have got me. what do you want to know?
why you lied to me.
i had to -- for all i knew you could have been in on the whole thing.
well, you know now, so please tell me who you are.
but you know my name -- it is dyle.
carson dyle is dead.
yes, he is. he was my brother.
your --
the army thinks he was killed in action by the germans, but i think they did it -- tex, gideon and scobie -- and your husband -- because he would not go along with their scheme to steal the gold. i think he threatened to turn them in and they killed him. I am trying to prove it. they think I am working with them. but I am not, and that is the truth. I am on your side, reggie -- please believe that.
how can i? you lied to me -- the way charles did -- and after promising you wouldn't. oh, i want to believe you, peter... oh, but i can not call you that anymore, can i? it will take me a while to get used to your new name -- which i do not even know yet. what is it?  are not you going to tell me?  hello -- ?
if you do anything funny, or try to talk to anyone, I will kill you, dyle -- here and now. okay?
you will wreck your raincoat.
what now?
we wait -- with our mouths shut.
how long do you intend -- ?
i said with the mouth shut.
sorry about that.
okay -- up there.
do i knock or something?
open it.
keep going.
the view had better be worth it.
very pretty. now what?
I will give you a chance, dyle -- which is more than you would give me. where is the money?
is that why you dragged me all the way up here -- to ask me that? she has it -- you know that.
and i say maybe you both have it! one more time, dyle -- where is it?
supposing i did have it -- which i do not -- do you really think I would hand it over?
you are out, dyle -- right now!
back where?
that is the idea.
did not anyone ever tell you it is impolite to --  what happened?
i met a man with sharp nails.
scobie?
i left him hanging around the american express.
come on -- I have got something that stings like crazy.
listen -- all i really want is an estimate.
it is not so bad. you may not be able to lie on your back for a few days -- but, then, you can lie from any position, can not you?
does it hurt?
have not you got a bullet i can bite?
are you really carson dyle's brother?
would you like to see my passport?
your passport! what kind of a proof is that?
would you like to see where i was tattooed?
sure.
okay, I will drive you around there some day.  ouch!
ha ha. you could at least tell me what your first name is these days.
alexander.
is there a mrs. dyle?
yes, but we are divorced.
i thought that was peter joshua.
I am no easier to live with than he was.
there -- you are a new man.
I am sorry i could not tell you the truth, but i had to find out your part in all this.
alex -- how can you tell if someone is lying or not?
you can't.
there must be some way.
there is an old riddle about two tribes of indians -- the whitefeet always tell the truth and the blackfeet always lie. so one day you meet an indian, you ask him if he is a truthful whitefoot or a lying blackfoot? he tells you he is a truthful whitefoot, but which one is he?
why could not you just look at his feet?
because he is wearing moccasins.
oh. well, then he is a truthful whitefoot, of course.
why not a lying blackfoot?
which one are you?
whitefoot, of course.
come here.
i hope it turns out you are a whitefoot, alex -- i could be very happy hanging around the tepee.
reggie -- listen to me --
oh-oh -- here it comes. the fatherly talk. you forget I am already a widow.
so was juliet -- at fifteen.
I am not fifteen.
well, there is your trouble right there -- you are too old for me.
why can not you be serious?
there, you said it.
said what?
serious. when a man gets to be my age that is the last word he ever wants to hear. i do not want to be serious -- and i especially do not want you to be.
okay -- I will tell you what -- we will just sit around all day long being frivolous -- how about that?
now please, reggie -- cut it out.
okay.
what are you doing?
cutting it out.
who told you to do that?
you did.
but I am not through complaining yet.
oh.
now please, reggie -- cut it out.
i think i love you, alex --
the phone's ringing --
whoever it is will not give up -- and neither will i.
can you give me one good reason why i should?
yes, ma'am. a little one -- 'bout seven or eight years old. th' little tyke keeps callin' you his aunt reggie -- am not that cute?
they have got jean-louis!
that sounds like their problem.
I will be right there.
what day is it?
tuesday.
lord, i forgot all about it -- sylvie works late tuesday nights -- she always leaves him with me. they would not do anything to a little boy, would they?
i do not know -- it depends on whether or not they have already eaten.
howdy, miz lampert.
who invited you?
hello, herman, it was a happy landing, i see.
I would better call sylvie -- she must be frantic.
I am afraid that will have to wait, mrs. lampert.
but his mother --
she is not going to be anybody's mother unless you answer some questions.
this am not no game, miz lampert.
we want that money -- now!
and stop threatening that boy. he does not have the money. mrs. lampert does not either.
then who does?
i do not know, herman -- maybe you do.
me?
or you --  or you --
that is a crock! if one of us did that he would not hang around here waiting for the other two to wise up.
but he would have to. if he left he would be admitting his guilt -- and the others would know what happened. whoever it is has to wait here, pretending to look for the money, waiting for the rest of us to give up and go home. that is when he will be safe and not a minute before.
he is just tryin' to throw us off! they have got it, i tell you! why do not we search their rooms?
it is all right with us --
not my room!
what is wrong, herman -- have you got something to hide?  then i take it there are no objections.
we would better exchange keys. here's mine.
I will take that.
come on -- let's get busy. who gets your vote?
scobie -- he is the one that objected.
he is all yours. I will do tex and gideon. take jean-louis with you -- and make sure you bolt the door from inside.
viens, jean-louis -- we are going to have a treasure hunt.
oh, la! if i find the treasure, will i win a prize?
what should we give him?
what for? if it is not here, why bother him?
and if it is?
why bother him?
you sure nuthin's missin'?
no. the police have kindly provided us with a list.
there sure am not nothin' here worth no quarter of a million.
not unless we are blind.
you think that mebbe we are fishin' the wrong stream?
meaning what?
you do not s'pose one o' us has it, like the man said -- i mean, that would be pretty distasteful -- us bein' vet'rans o' the same war 'n' all.
you know I would tell you if i had it.
nachurly. jus' like I would tell you.
nachurly. and that goes for herman, too.
come on, now -- if you wanted to hide something, where would you put it?
i know. i would bury it in the garden.
swell -- only this man does not have a garden.
oh.  neither do i.  voil!
voil what?
up there! i would put it up there!
i hope i do not find any little hairy things living up here -- wait! there is something! if i can just -- yes, I am getting it -- a case of some sort -- it is heavy.
i found it! i found it!
if you think you are getting credit for this, you are crazy.
we won! we won!
reggie -- ? did you find it?
no.
what do you mean, no?
the kid said --
up there! it is up there!
no, jean-louis.
who do you think did it -- gideon?
maybe.
or tex?
maybe.
you are a big help. can i have one of those?
i think tex did it.
why?
because i really suspect gideon -- and it is always the person you do not suspect.
do women think it is feminine to be so illogical -- or can not they help it?
what is so illogical about that?
a) it is always the person you do not suspect; b) that means you think it is tex because you really suspect gideon; therefore c) if you think it is tex, it has to be someone else -- gideon.
oh. i guess they just can not help it.
who?
women. you know, i can not help feeling rather sorry for scobie.  would not it be nice if we were like that?
what -- like scobie?
no -- gene kelly. remember the way he danced down there next to the river in 'american in paris' -- without a care in the world? this is good, want some?
I would love some, thanks.
I am sorry.
no sense messing up the streets.
alex --
hm?
I am scared.
do not worry, I am not going to hit you.
no, about scobie, i mean. i can not think of any reason why he was killed.
maybe somebody felt that four shares were too many --
what makes you think that this somebody will be satisfied with three? he wants it all, alex -- that means we are in his way, too.
yes, i know.
first your brother, then charles, now scobie -- we have got to do something! any minute now we could be assassinated! would you do anything like that?
what? assassinate somebody?
no --
hurry up and change -- I am starved.
let me know what you want -- I will pick a suit that matches.
got you.
did you ever hear the story of the boy who cried wolf?
the shower's in there.
reggie -- open the door.
this is a ludicrous situation. there must be dozens of men dying to use my shower.
then i suggest you call one of them.
i dare you.
what are you doing?
have you ever heard of anyone taking a shower with his shoes on?  what a nut.
i usually sing a medley of old favorites when i bathe -- any requests?
shut the door!
i do not think i know that one.
the suit needs it more than i do, anyway.
how often do you go through this little ritual?
every day. the manufacturer recommends it.
i do not believe it.
yes -- ?
mrs. lampert? -- bartholomew. I have spoken to washington, mrs. lampert --
go ahead, mr. bartholomew -- I am listening.
i told them what you said -- about this man being carson dyle's brother. i asked them what they knew about it and they told me -- you are not going to like this, mrs. lampert -- they told me carson dyle has no brother.
are you sure there is no mistake?
none whatsoever. please, mrs. lampert -- be careful.
reggie -- you have not spoken a word in twenty minutes.
i keep thinking about charles and scobie -- and the one who is going to be next -- me?
nothing's going to happen to you while I am around -- i want you to believe that.
how can i believe it when you do not even know who the killer is? I have got that right, have not i? you do not know who did it.
no -- not yet.
but then if we sit back and wait, the field should start narrowing down, should not it? whoever's left alive at the end will pretty well have sewn up the nomination, would not you say so?
are you trying to say that i might have killed charles and scobie?
what do i have to do to satisfy you -- become the next victim?
it is a start, anyway.
i do not understand you at all -- one minute you are chasing me around the shower room and the next you are accusing me of murder.
carson dyle did not have a brother.
i can explain if you will just listen. will you listen?
i can not very well leave without a pair of water wings.
okay. then get set for the story of my life -- not that it would ever make the best-seller list.
fiction or non-fiction?
why do not you shut up!
well!
are you going to listen?
go on.
after i graduated college i was all set to go into my father business. umbrella frames -- that is what he made. it was a sensible business, i suppose, but i did not have the sense to be interested in anything sensible.
i suppose all this is leading somewhere?
it led me away from umbrella frames, for one thing. but that left me without any honest means of support.
what do you mean?
when a man has no profession except the one he loathes, what is left? i began looking for people with more money than they would ever need -- including some they would barely miss.
you mean, you are a thief?
well, it is not exactly the term I would have chosen, but i suppose it captures the spirit of the thing.
i do not believe it.
well, i can not really blame you -- not now.
but i do believe it -- that is what i do not believe. so it is goodbye alexander dyle -- welcome home peter joshua.
sorry, the name's adam canfield.
adam canfield. wonderful. do you realize you have had three names in the past two days? i do not even know who I am talking to any more.
the man's the same, even if the name isn't.
no -- he is not the same. alexander dyle was interested in clearing up his brother's death. adam canfield is a crook. and with all the advantages you have got -- brains, charm, education, a handsome face --
oh, come on!
-- there has to be a darn good reason for living the way you do. i want to know what it is.
it is simple. i like what i do -- i enjoy doing it. there are not many men who love their work as much as i do. look around some time.
is there a mrs. canfield?
yes, but --
i could eat a horse.
i think that is what you ordered.
do not you dare to be civil with me! all this time you were leading me on --
how was i leading you on?
all that marvelous rejection -- you knew i could not resist it. now it turns out you were only interested in the money.
that is right.
oh!
what would you like me to say -- that a pretty girl with an outrageous manner means more to an old pro like me than a quarter of a million dollars?
no -- i guess not.
it is a toss-up, i can tell you that.
what?
do not you know I am having a tough time keeping my eyes off of you?
oh, you should see your face.
what about it?
it is lovely.
what is the matter?
I am not hungry -- is not it glorious?
adam!
it is all right -- look.
you do not look so bad in this light.
why do you think i brought you here?
i thought maybe you wanted me to see the kind of work the competition was turning out.
pretty good, huh? i taught them everything they do.
oh? did they do that sort of thing way back in your day?
how do you think i got here?
are not you allowed to kiss back?
no. the doctor said it would be bad for my -- thermostat.
when you come on, you really come on.
well -- come on.
i know why you are not taken -- no one can catch up with you.
relax -- you are gaining.
i was, too.
in mr. dyle's room?
no -- in my room.
it stands to reason you are telling the truth -- for why would you invent such a ridiculous story?
that wraps it up -- tex has the money. go back to bed -- I will let you know when I have found him.
you are going to look for him -- now?
if the police find him first they are not very likely to turn over a quarter of a million dollars to us, are they?
adam --
there is no time -- I will call you in the morning.
now dyle, you listen to me -- my mama did not raise no stupid children. i know who is got the money 'n i am not disappearing till i got my share -- 'n' my share's growin' a whole lot bigger ev'ry day.
where are you, old buddy?
I will tell you what, fella -- you want t' find me, you jus' turn 'round -- from now on I will be right behind you.
what is it?
open up.
i think we were wrong about tex having the money.
why?
i just heard from him -- he is still hungry. that means killing gideon did not get it for him -- so he is narrowed it down to us. you have got it.
I have looked, adam -- you know i have --
where is that airlines bag?
lord, you are stubborn.
i sure am. get it.
but everyone and his aunt lilian's been through that bag. somebody would have seen it.
let's look anyway.
lord, you are stubborn.
i mean, it is there, reggie. if only we could see it. we are looking at it right now.
electric razor -- comb -- steamship ticket -- fountain pen -- four passports -- toothbrush -- wallet --  key -- what about that?
to the apartment -- it matches mine perfectly.
the letter --
it still does not make sense, but it is not worth any quarter of a million either. have we forgotten anything?
the tooth powder. wait a minute -- could you recognize heroin just by tasting it?
heroin -- peppermint-flavored heroin.
well, i guess that is it -- dead end.
go to bed. you have got to be at work in the morning. there is nothing more we can do tonight.
i love you, adam.
yes, you told me.
no -- last time i said "i love you, alex."
i hope jean-louis understands about last night -- it is just not safe for him to be around me right now.
do not be silly -- he would not do anything. he is not yet old enough to be interested in girls. he says collecting stamps is much more satisfying to a man of his age.
hold it -- italy just finished. they are recognizing great britain.
oh la vache!
reggie -- i think I have found --  are you on?
no, it is all right. what is wrong, adam?
nothing's wrong. i think i found something. i was snooping around tex's room and i found this in the waste basket. I have stuck it back together.
you are right. i remember grandpierre looking through it. but there was nothing in it -- at least, nothing that the police thought was very important.
can you remember anything at all?
grandpierre asked me about an appointment charles had -- on the day he was killed.
with whom? where?
i think it only said where -- but i can not --
think, reggie, you have got to think -- it may be what we are looking for.
that money's not ours, adam -- if we keep it, we will be breaking the law.
nonsense. we did not steal it. there is no law against stealing stolen money.
of course there is!
there is? well, i can not say i think very much of a silly law like that. think, reggie -- please think -- what was written in charles' notebook?
well -- it was a place -- a street corner, i think. but i do not --  hold it. I am on.
as outlined in report number three- nine-stroke-five-two of the western hemisphere conference held on march 22 --  no wait! it was last thursday, five of the clock at the jardin des champs- lyses! adam -- that was it! the garden!
it is thursday today -- and it is almost five -- come on!
now what?
five of the clock -- thursday -- the garden -- it is got to be something around here.
but charles' appointment was last week, not --
i know, but this is all we have got left.
well, you are right there. ten minutes ago i had a job.
stop grousing. if we find the money I will buy you an international conference all your own. now start looking. you take this side and I will poke around over there.
it is hopeless -- i do not even know what we are looking for.
it is all right -- i do not think tex does, either.
tex? you mean he is here, too?
look.
all right -- where is the letter?
the letter? the letter am not worth nuthin'.
you know what i mean -- the envelope with the stamps. i want it.
you greenhorn -- you half-witted, thick-skulled, hare-brained, greenhorn! they wuz both too smart for us!
what are you talking about?
first her husband, now her -- she hoodwinked you! she batted all them big eyes and you went 'n fell for it - like a egg from a tall chicken! here!  you want? here -- it is yours!
sylvie -- ? what are you doing here?
hello, reggie -- i am waiting for jean-louis.
what is he up to?
he was so excited -- when he got the stamps you gave him this morning. he said he had never seen any like them.
I am glad. but what is all this?
the stamp market, of course -- it is here every thursday afternoon. this is where jean-louis trades his --
good lord! the stamps! where is he? sylvie -- we have got to find him!
what is the matter, chrie?
those stamps -- they are worth a fortune!
what?
a fortune! hurry -- we have got to find him!
i do not see him.
we will separate -- you look over there.
jean-louis -- thank heavens! do you have -- !  what is that?
a man traded with me -- all those for only four.
oh no! what man, jean-louis --  where?
but he is gone.
i do not blame him. jean-louis -- do you know where this monsieur flix lives?
no -- but i will ask.
monsieur flix -- ?
i was expecting you. you are american too, of course.
yes.
the man who bought them last week was american. i did not see him but i heard. i knew you would come.
have you ever, in your entire life, seen anything so beautiful?
I am -- I am sorry -- i do not know anything about stamps.
i know them as one knows his own face, even though i have never seen them. this yellow one -- a swedish four shilling -- called 'de gula fyraskillingen' -- issued in 1854.
how much is it worth?
the money is unimportant.
I am afraid it is important.
in your money, perhaps $65,000.
do you mind if i sit down?  what about the blue one?
it is called 'the hawaiian blue' and there are only seven left. in 1894 the owner of one was murdered by a rival collector who was obsessed to own it.
what is its value today?
in human life? in greed? in suffering?
in money.
forty-five thousand.
do you have anything to eat?  and the orange one -- what about the orange one?
a two-penny mauritius -- issued in 1856. not so rare as the others -- $30,000 perhaps.
and the last one?
the best for the last -- le chef- d'oeuvre de la collection. the masterpiece. it is the most valuable stamp in the world. it is called 'the gazette guyanne.' it was printed by hand on colored paper in 1852 and marked with the initials of the printer.  today it has a value of $100,000.  eh, bien -- i am not a thief. i knew there was some mistake. take them.
you gave the boy quite a lot of stamps in return, monsieur flix -- are they for sale now?
let me see. there are 350 european, 200 asian, 175 american, 100 african and twelve princess grace commemorative -- which comes to nine francs fifty.
here's ten.
please keep it.
i am a tradesman, madame, not a doorman. and do not forget these.
I am -- I am sorry.
no. for a few minutes they were mine -- that is enough.
just a minute, mrs. lampert -- you would better give that to me slowly. who is adam?
the one who said he was dyle's brother -- of course I am sure -- tex wrote the word 'dyle' before he died. he is the murderer i tell you -- he is the only one left! you have got to do something!
calm down, mrs. lampert -- please. does he have the money?
no, i do -- it was the stamps on that letter charles had with him on the train. they were in plain sight all the time, but no one ever bothered looking at the envelope.
the envelope -- imagine that.  mrs. lampert, listen to me -- you are not safe as long as you have got these stamps. go to the embassy right away -- wait, I would better meet you halfway -- it is quicker. now, let's see -- do you know the center garden at the palais royal? -- yes, by the colonnade -- as soon as you can get there. hurry, mrs. lampert.
yes, I am leaving now -- goodbye.
reggie -- stop!
why? so you can kill me too? tex is dead, I have seen him! he said dyle did it!
I am not dyle -- you know that!
but tex did not -- he still thought -- !
do not be an idiot!
reggie -- why will not you listen?
I am through listening to you!
but i did not kill anybody.
then who did? you are the only one left.
reggie -- please believe me!
no!
he is -- with the c.i.a. -- I have seen him at the embassy.
do not be a fool! he is carson dyle!
reggie -- listen to me!
you lied to me so many times --
reggie -- trust me once more -- please.
can i really believe you this time, adam?
there is not a reason on earth why you should.
you did not have to chase me so hard --
here, give it to me.
I am sorry i thought you were the murderer, adam -- how did i know that he was as big a liar as you are?
and that is all the gratitude i get for saving your hide.
the truth, now -- was it my hide -- or the stamps?
what a terrible thing to say. how could you even think that?
all right, prove it to me -- tell me to go to the embassy first thing in the morning and turn in those stamps.
i said, tell me to go to the --
i heard you, i heard you.
then say it.
reggie -- listen to me --
never mind -- I will go by myself.
what makes you think they are even interested? it is only a quarter of a million -- it will cost more than that to fix up their bookkeeping. as a taxpayer --
well, of all the mean, rotten, contemptible, crooked --
crooked? i should think you would be glad to find out i was not crooked.
you could not even be honest about being dishonest. why did not you say something?
we are not allowed to tell. may i have the stamps, please?
here --  wait a minute -- how did carson dyle get an office in here, anyway?
when did you see him -- what time, i mean?
around one.
the lunch hour. he probably worked it out in advance. he found an office that was usually left open and just moved in for the time you were here.
then how do i know this is your office?
mrs. foster -- send a memo to bartholomew at security recommending that --
bartholomew?
-- recommending that all embassy offices be locked during the lunch hour.
starting with his own.
okay, now -- hand over those stamps.
what is your first name today?
brian.
brian cruikshank -- it would serve me right if i got stuck with that one.
who asked you to get stuck with any of them?
is there a mrs. cruikshank?
yes.
but you are -- divorced?
no.
oh.
my mother -- she lives in detroit. come on now -- give me those stamps.
only if you can prove to me that you are really brian cruikshank.
how about if next week some time i put it on a marriage license -- that ought to --
quit stalling -- i want to see some identification -- now!
i would not lie on a thing like that -- i could go to jail.
you would lie about anything.
well, maybe we would better forget about it, then.
you can not prove it, can you? you are still trying to --  marriage license! did you say -- ?
i did not say anything. will you give me those stamps?
you did too say it -- i heard you. oh, i love you adam -- i mean alex -- er, peter -- brian. i hope we have lots of boys -- we can name them all after you.
before we start on that, do you mind handing over the stamps?
