yes, and maybe he didn't.
ask the question anyway, thompson! build the picture around the question, even if you can not answer it.
i know, but -
all we saw on that screen was a big american -
thompson!
yes, sir.
hold this thing up for a week.  two weeks if you have to...
but do not you think if we release it now - he is only been dead four days - it might be better than if -
nothing is ever better than finding out what makes people tick.  go after the people that knew kane well.  that manager of his - the little guy, bernstein, those two wives, all the people who knew him, had worked for him, who loved him, who hated his guts -  i do not mean go through the city directory, of course -
I will get to it right away, mr. rawlston.
good!
right away.  will you have something, mr. thompson?
I will have a highball.
who told you you could sit down here?
oh!  i thought maybe we could have a drink together?
think again!
why do not you people let me alone? I am minding my own business.  you mind yours.
if you would just let me talk to you for a little while, miss alexander. all i want to ask you...
get out of here!  get out!  get out!
she is just not talking to anybody from the newspapers, mr. thompson.
I am not from a newspaper exactly, i -
she is plastered, is not she?
she will snap out of it.  why, until he died, she would just as soon talk about mr. kane as about anybody.  sooner.
I will come down in a week or so and see her again.  say, you might be able to help me.  when she used to talk about kane - did she ever happen to say anything - about rosebud?
rosebud?
I will sign those papers -
you people seem to forget that I am the boy's father.
it is going to be done exactly the way I have told mr. thatcher -
if i want to, i can go to court. a father has a right to -
i want you to stop all this nonsense, jim.
the bank's decision in all matters concerning his education, his place of residence and similar subjects will be final.
i want you to stop all this nonsense, jim.
we will assume full management of the colorado lode - of which you, mrs. kane, are the sole owner.
where do i sign, mr. thatcher?
right here, mrs. kane.
well, let's hope it is all for the best.
it is.  go on, mr. thatcher -
charles, my name is mr. thatcher -
this is mr. thatcher, charles.
how do you do, charles?
mr. thatcher is going to take you on a trip with him tonight, charles. you will be leaving on number ten.
that is the train with all the lights.
you goin', mom?
your mother will not be going right away, charles -
where'm i going?
you are going to live with mr. thatcher from now on, charlie!  you are going to be rich.  your ma figures - that is, er - she and i have decided that this is not the place for you to grow up in. you will probably be the richest man in america someday and you ought to -
you will not be lonely, charles...
sorry, mr. thatcher!  what the kid needs is a good thrashing!
that is what you think, is it, jim?
yes.
is that really your idea of how to run a newspaper?
i do not know how to run a newspaper, mr. thatcher.  i just try everything i can think of.
"enemy armada off jersey coast."  you know you have not the slightest proof that this - this armada - is off the jersey coast.
can you prove it isn't?
mr. bernstein, mr. thatcher -
how are you, mr. thatcher?
that is all right.  we have no secrets from our readers.  mr. thatcher is one of our most devoted readers, mr. bernstein.  he knows what is wrong with every issue since I have taken charge. what is the cable?
the food is marvelous in cuba the senoritas are beautiful stop i could send you prose poems of palm trees and sunrises and tropical colors blending in far off landscapes but do not feel right in spending your money for this stop there is no war in cuba regards wheeler.
you see!  there has not been a true word -
i think we will have to send our friend wheeler a cable, mr. bernstein.  of course, we will have to make it shorter than his, because he is working on an expense account and we are not.  let me see -  mike!
that is fine, mr. kane.
i rather like it myself.  send it right away.
i came to see you, charles, about your - about the enquirer's campaign against the metropolitan transfer company.
will not you step into my office, mr. thatcher?
mr. thatcher, is not everything I have been saying in the enquirer about the traction trust absolutely true?
they are all part of your general attack - your senseless attack - on everything and everybody who is got more than ten cents in his pocket. they are -
the trouble is, mr. thatcher, you do not realize you are talking to two people.
as charles foster kane, who has 			eighty- two thousand, six hundred and thirty-one shares of metropolitan transfer - you see, i do have a rough idea of my holdings - i sympathize with you.  charles foster kane is a dangerous scoundrel, his paper should be run out of town and a committee should be formed to boycott him.  you may, if you can form such a committee, put me down for a contribution of one thousand dollars.
charles, my time is too valuable for me -
on the other hand -  i am the publisher of the enquirer. as such, it is my duty - I will let you in on a little secret, it is also my pleasure - to see to it that decent, hard-working people of this city are not robbed blind by a group of money- mad pirates because, god help them, they have no one to look after their interests!  I will let you in on another little secret, mr. thatcher.  i think I am the man to do it.  you see, i have money and property -
i happened to see your consolidated statement yesterday, charles.  could i not suggest to you that it is unwise for you to continue this philanthropic enterprise -  this enquirer - that is costing you one million dollars a year?
you are right.  we did lose a million dollars last year.
who is a busy man?  me?  I am chairman of the board.  i got nothing but time ...  what do you want to know?
well, mr. bernstein, you were with mr. kane from the very beginning -
from before the beginning, young fellow. and now it is after the end.  anything you want to know about him - about the paper -
-  we thought maybe, if we can find out what he meant by that last word - as he was dying -
that rosebud?  maybe some girl?  there were a lot of them back in the early days, and -
not some girl he knew casually and then remembered after fifty years, on his death bed -
you are pretty young, mr. -  mr. thompson.  a fellow will remember things you would not think he would remember. you take me.  one day, back in 1896, i was crossing over to jersey on a ferry and as we pulled out, there was another ferry pulling in -  - and on it, there was a girl waiting to get off.  a white dress she had on - and she was carrying a white pastrol - and i only saw her for one second and she did not see me at all - but I will bet a month has not gone by since that i have not thought of that girl.  see what i mean?  well, so what are you doing about this "rosebud," mr. thompson.
I am calling on people who knew mr. kane. I am calling on you.
who else you been to see?
well, i went down to atlantic city -
susie?  i called her myself the day after he died.  i thought maybe somebody ought to...  she could not even come to the 'phone.
you know why?  she was so -
sure, sure.
I am going back there.
who else did you see?
nobody else, but I have been through that stuff of walter thatcher's. that journal of his -
thatcher!  that man was the biggest darn fool i ever met -
he made an awful lot of money.
it is not trick to make an awful lot of money if all you want is to make a lot of money.  thatcher!
go in and ask him to hurry.
well, why do not you, mr. bernstein? you know mr. leland.
i might make him nervous.
you and leland and mr. kane - you were great friends back in the old days, i understand.
that is right.  they called us the "three musketeers."
he is a great guy - leland.  why did he ever leave new york?
that is a long story.
yes.  i thought it was a good idea. we have covered it from the news end, of course.
and the social.  how about the music notice?  you got that in?
oh, yes, it is already made up.  our mr. mervin wrote a small review.
enthusiastic?
yes, very!  naturally.
well, well - is not that nice?
mr. kane, this is a surprise!
we have got a nice plant here.
was the show covered by every department?
exactly according to your instructions, mr. kane.  we have got two spreads of pictures.
and the notice?
yes - mr. kane.
is it good?
yes, mr. kane.
but there is another one still to come - the dramatic notice.
it is not finished?
no, mr. kane.
that is leland, is not it?
yes, mr. kane.
has he said when he will finish?
we have not heard from him.
he used to work fast - did not he, mr. bernstein?
he sure did, mr. kane.
where is he?
mr. kane -
that is all right, mr. bernstein.
hey, brad!  brad!  he am not been drinking before, mr. kane. never.  we would have heard.
what does it say there?
"miss susan alexander, a pretty but hopelessly incompetent amateur -  - last night opened the new chicago opera house in a performance of - of -"  i can not pronounce that name, mr. kane.
thais.
"her singing, happily, is no concern of this department.  of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to..."
go on!
that is all there is.
of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to say anything except that it represents a new low...  have you got that, mr. bernstein? in the opinion of this reviewer -
i did not see that.
it is not here, mr. bernstein.  I am dictating it.
i can not take shorthand.
get me a typewriter.  I will finish the notice.
he finished it.  he wrote the worst notice i ever read about the girl he loved.  we ran it in every paper.
i guess mr. kane did not think so well of susie's art anyway.
he thought she was great, mr. thompson. he really believed that.  he put all his ambition on that girl.  after she came along, he never really cared for himself like he used to.  oh, i do not blame susie -
well, then, how could he write that roast?  the notices in the kane papers were always very kind to her.
oh, yes.  he saw to that.  i tell you, mr. thompson, he was a hard man to figure out.  he had that funny sense of humor.  and then, too, maybe he thought by finishing that piece he could show leland he was an honest man. you see, leland did not think so.  i guess he showed him all right.  he is a nice fellow, but he is a dreamer.  they were always together in those early days when we just started the enquirer.
welcome, mr. kane, to the "enquirer." i am herbert carter.
thank you, mr carter.  this is mr. leland.
how do you do, mr. leland?
are they standing for me?
i thought it would be a nice gesture - the new publisher -
ask them to sit down.
you may resume your work, gentlemen.  i did not know your plans and so i was unable to make any preparations.
i do not my plans myself.
mr. carter, this is mr. bernstein. mr. bernstein is my general manager.
how do you do, mr. bernstein?
you have got a private office here, have not you?
my little sanctum is at your disposal. but i do not think i understand -
I am going to live right here.  as long as i have to.
but a morning newspaper, mr. kane. after all, we are practically closed twelve hours a day - except for the business offices -
that is one of the things i think must be changed, mr. carter.  the news goes on for twenty-four hours a day.
I am not criticizing, mr. carter, but here's what i mean.  there is a front page story in the "chronicle,"  and a picture - of a woman in brooklyn who is missing.  probably murdered.  a mrs. harry silverstone.  why did not the "enquirer" have that this morning?
because we are running a newspaper, mr. kane, not a scandal sheet.
I am still hungry, brad.  let's go to rector's and get something decent.  the "chronicle" has a two-column headline, mr. carter.  why have not we?
there is no news big enough.
if the headline is big enough, it makes the new big enough.  the murder of mrs. harry silverstone -
as a matter of fact, we sent a man to the silverstone home yesterday afternoon.  our man even arrived before the "chronicle" reporter.  and there is no proof that the woman was murdered - or even that she is dead.
the "chronicle" does not say she is murdered, mr. carter.  it says the neighbors are getting suspicious.
it is not our function to report the gossip of housewives.  if we were interested in that kind of thing, mr. kane, we could fill the paper twice over daily -
that is the kind of thing we are going to be interested in from now on, mr. carter.  right now, i wish you would send your best man up to see mr. silverstone.  have him tell mr. silverstone if he does not produce his wife at once, the "enquirer" will have him arrested.  have him tell mr. silverstone he is a detective from the central office. if mr. silverstone asks to see his badge, your man is to get indignant and call mr. silverstone an anarchist. loudly, so that the neighbors can hear.
really, mr. kane, i can not see the function of a respectable newspaper -
I have just made a shocking discovery. the "enquirer" is without a telephone. have two installed at once!
i ordered six already this morning! got a discount!
but, mr. kane -
that will be all today, mr. carter. you have been most understanding. good day, mr. carter!
poor mr. carter!
what makes those fellows think that a newspaper is something rigid, something inflexible, that people are supposed to pay two cents for -
three cents.
two cents.
this is all figured at three cents a copy.
re-figure it, mr. bernstein, at two cents.
all right, but I will keep these figures, too, just in case.
ready for dinner, brad?
mr. leland, if mr. kane, he should decide to drop the price to one cent, or maybe even he should make up his mind to give the paper away with a half-pound of tea - you will just hold him until i get back, will not you?
I am not guaranteeing a thing, mr. bernstein.  you people work too fast for me!  talk about new brooms!
who said anything about brooms?
it is a saying, mr. bernstein.  a new broom sweeps clean.
oh!
I have been a newspaperman my whole life and i do not intend -  - if it is your intention that i should continue to be harassed by this - this -  i warn you, mr. kane, it would go against my grain to desert you when you need me so badly - but i would feel obliged to ask that my resignation be accepted.
it is accepted, mr. carter, with assurances of my deepest regard.
but mr. kane, i meant -
we will be on the street soon, charlie - another ten minutes.
it is three hours and fifty minutes late - but we did it -
tired?
it is been a tough day.
a wasted day.
wasted?
charlie?!
you just made the paper over four times today, mr. kane.  that is all -
I have changed the front page a little, mr. bernstein.  that is not enough - there is something I have got to get into this paper besides pictures and print -  I have got to make the "new york enquirer" as important to new york as the gas in that light.
what are you going to do, charlie?
my declaration of principles -  do not smile, brad -  take dictation, mr. bernstein -
i can not take shorthand, mr. kane -
I will write it myself.
you do not wanta make any promises, mr. kane, you do not wanta keep.
these'll be kept.  I will provide the people of this city with a daily paper that will tell all the news honestly.  i will also provide them -
that is the second sentence you have started with "i" -
people are going to know who is responsible.  and they are going to get the news - the true news - quickly and simply and entertainingly.  and no special interests will be allowed to interfere with the truth of that news.
sixty-two thousand -
that looks pretty nice.
let's hope they like it there.
from the chronicle building that sign is the biggest thing you can see - every floor guaranteed - let's hope it bothers them - it cost us enough.
look at that.
the "chronicle" is a good newspaper.
it is a good idea for a newspaper.  four hundred sixy thousand.
say, with them fellows -  - it is no trick to get circulation.
you are right, mr. bernstein.
you know how long it took the "chronicle" to get that staff together?  twenty years.
i know.
gentlemen of the "enquirer"!  this has, i think, been a fitting welcome to those distinguished journalists -  mr. reilly in particular - who are the latest additions to our ranks. it will make them happy to learn that the "enquirer's" circulation this morning passed the two hundred thousand mark.
two hundred and one thousand, six hundred and forty-seven.
but please, mr. kane, do not buy any more paintings.  nine venuses already we got, twenty-six virgins - two whole warehouses full of stuff -
i promise not to bring any more venuses and not to worry - and not to try to get in touch with any of the papers -
do you, mr. leland?
certainly not.
ask them to sit down, mr. bernstein.
sit down, everybody - for heaven's sake!
so then, tonight, we go over everything thoroughly, eh?  especially the new papers -
we certainly do.  vacation's over - starting right after dinner.  but right now - that lady over there -  - that is the new society editor, i take it?  you think i could interrupt her a moment, mr. bernstein?
huh?  oh, i forgot - you have been away so long i forgot about your joking -
the way things turned out, i do not need to tell you - miss emily norton was no rosebud!
it did not end very well, did it?
it ended -  then there was susie - that ended, too.  i guess he did not make her very happy -  you know, i was thinking - that rosebud you are trying to find out about -
yes -
maybe that was something he lost. mr. kane was a man that lost - almost everything he had -  you ought to talk to bradford leland. he could tell you a lot.  i wish i could tell you where leland is, but i do not know myself.  he may be out of town somewhere - he may be dead.
in case you would like to know, mr. bernstein, he is at the huntington memorial hospital on 180th street.
you do not say!  why i had no idea -
nothing particular the matter with him, they tell me.  just -
just old age.  it is the only disease, mr. thompson, you do not look forward to being cured of.  you ought to see mr. leland.  there is a whole lot of things he could tell you - if he wanted to.
mr. leland, you were -
you do not happen to have a cigar, do you?  I have got a young physician - must remember to ask to see his license - the odds are a hundred to one he has not got one - who thinks I am going to stop smoking...  i changed the subject, did not i?  dear, dear!  what a disagreeable old man I have become.  you want to know what i think of charlie kane?  well - i suppose he has some private sort of greatness. but he kept it to himself.  he never - gave himself away -  he never gave anything away.  he just - left you a tip.  he had a generous mind.  i do not suppose anybody ever had so many opinions.  that was because he had the power to express them, and charlie lived on power and the excitement of using it -  but he did not believe in anything except charlie kane.  he never had a conviction in his life.  i guess he died without one -  that must have been pretty unpleasant.  of course, a lot of us check out with no special conviction about death.  but we do know what we are leaving ... we believe in something.  you are absolutely sure you have not got a cigar?
sorry, mr. leland.
never mind -  bernstein told you about the first days at the office, did not he?  well, charlie was a bad newspaper man even then.  he entertained his readers, but he never told them the truth.
maybe you could remember something that -
i can remember everything.  that is my curse, young man.  it is the greatest curse that is ever been inflicted on the human race.  memory -  i was his oldest friend.  as far as i was concerned, he behaved like swine.  maybe i wasnt' his friend.  if i wasn't, he never had one.  maybe i was what nowadays you call a stooge -
is not it wonderful?  such a party!
yes.
what is the matter?
mr. bernstein, these men who are now with the "enquirer" - who were with the "chronicle" until yesterday - were not they just as devoted to the "chronicle" kind of paper as they are now to - our kind of paper?
sure.  they are like anybody else. they got work to do.  they do it.  only they happen to be the best men in the business.
do we stand for the same things that the "chronicle" stands for, mr. bernstein?
certainly not.  so what is that got to do with it?  mr. kane, he will have them changed to his kind of newspapermen in a week.
probably.  there is always a chance, of course, that they will change mr. kane - without his knowing it.
well, gentlemen, are we going to war?
our readers are, anyway, i do not know about the rest of the country.
it will be our first foreign war in fifty years, brad.  we will cover it the way the "hickville gazette" covers the church social!  the names of everybody there; what they wore; what they ate; who won the prizes; who gave the prizes -  i tell you, brad, i envy you.  by bradford leland, the "enquirer's" special correspondent at the front. I am almost tempted -
but there is no front, charlie. there is a very doubtful civil war. besides, i do not want the job.
all right, brad, all right - you do not have to be a war correspondent unless you want to - I would want to.  hello, georgie.
charles, i tell you there is no war! there is a condition that should be remedied - but between that and a -
how would the "enquirer" look with no news about this non-existent war - with benton, pulitzer and heart devoting twenty columns a day to it?
they do it only because you do!
and i do it because they do it, and they do it - it is a vicious circle, is not it?  I am going over to georgie's, brad - you know, georgie, do not you?
say, brad.  I have got an idea.
yes?
i mean I have got a job for you.
good.
you do not want to be a war correspondent - how about being a dramatic critic?
I would like that.
you start tomorrow night.  richard carl in "the spring chicken."  I will get us some girls.  you get tickets.  a drama critic gets them free, you know.  rector's at seven?
charlie -
yes?
it does not make any difference about me, but one of these days you are going to find out that all this charm of yours will not be enough -
you are wrong.  it does make a difference to you -  rector's, brad?  come to think of it, i do not blame you for not wanting to be a war correspondent.  you will not miss anything.  it is not much of a war. besides, they tell me there is not a decent restaurant on the whole island.
do you, mr. leland?
certainly not.
mr. leland, why did not you go to europe with him?  he wanted you to.  he said to me just yesterday -
i wanted him to have fun - and with me along -
mr. bernstein, i wish you would let me ask you a few questions, and answer me truthfully.
do not i always?  most of the time?
mr. bernstein, am i a stuffed shirt? am i a horse-faced hypocrite?  am i a new england school-marm?
yes.
if you thought I would answer different from what mr. kane tells you - well, i wouldn't.

well, he will be coming back in september. the majestic.  i got the reservations. it gets in on the ninth.
september the ninth?
what is this?
it is a letter from her lawyers.
david, grobleski & davis -  my dear rawlston -
rawlston is my boss.
oh, yes.  i know about mr. rawlston.
he knows the first mrs. kane socially -  that is the answer we got.
i am in receipt of your favor of yesterday.  i beg you to do me the courtesy of accepting my assurance that mrs. whitehall cannot be induced to contribute any more information on the career of charles foster kane. she has authorized me to state on previous occasions that she regards their brief marriage as a distateful episode in her life that she prefers to forget.  with assurances of the highest esteem -
brief marriage!  ten years!
was he in love?
he married for love -  that is why he did everything.  that is why he went into politics.  it seems we were not enough.  he wanted all the voters to love him, too.  all he really wanted out of life was love. that is charlie's story - it is the story of how he lost it.  you see, he just did not have any to give.  he loved charlie kane, of course, very dearly - and his mother, i guess he always loved her.  as for emily - well, all i can tell you is emily's story as she told it to me, which probably is not fair - there is supposed to be two sides to every story - and i guess there are.  i guess there is more than two sides -
it is the unanimous opinion of my cabinent - in which i concur - that the proposed leases are in the best interests of the governement and the people.  you are not, i hope, suggesting that these interests are not indentical?
I am not suggesting anything, mr. president!  I have come here to tell you that, unless some action is taken promptly - and you are the only one who can take it - the oil that is the property of the people of this country will be turned over for a song to a gang of high-pressure crooks!
i must refuse to allow you to continue in this vein, mr. kane.
it is the only vein i know.  i tell the facts the way i see them.  and any man that knows that facts -
i know the facts, mr. kane.  and i happen to have the incredible insolence to differ with you as to what they mean.  you are a man of great talents, mr. kane.
thanks.
i understand that you have political ambitions.  unfortunately, you seem incapable of allowing any other opinion but your own -
I am much obliged, mr. president, for your concern about me.  however, i happen to be concerned at this moment with the matter of extensive oil lands belonging to the people of the united states, and i say that if this lease goes through, the property of the people of the united states goes into the hands of -
you have made your point perfectly clear, mr. kane.  good day.
take dictation -  front page editorial -  "this afternoon a great man was assassinated.  he was the president of the united states -"
charlie -
yes?
do you think you are the one who should call him a great man?
why not?
why not?  well - nobody's a great man in your estimation until he is dead.
maybe we would better wait for more word on the president's condition.
what do you mean by that?
what do you mean by that?
yesterday morning you called the president a traitor.  what do you think that crowd is doing down there?  they think you murdered him.
because the crackpot who did it had a copy of the "enquirer" in his pocket?
- and that copy of the "enquirer" said the president should be killed.
i said treason was a capital offense punishable by death -
you have said a lot of things about the president in the last few months.
they are true!  everything i said! witholding that veto was treason!
charlie!
oil belonging to the people of the united states was leased out for a song to a gang of high-pressure crooks -  nobody can blame me because -
look out that window.
there are the people of the united states, and they are blaming you - oh, i know it does not make any sense, but at least you can learn a lesson from it.
what lesson?  not to expose fraud when i see it?  not to fight for the right of the people to own their own property?  run it the way i said, reilly - "this afternoon a great man was assassinated -"
charlie!  now you are not making sense.
i do not have to.  i run a newspaper with half a million readers and they are getting a martyred president this morning with their breakfast. i can not help that.  besides, they all know I am married to his niece.  I have got to think of her.
what?
I have got to think of emily -
I would like to talk to you about that.
go ahead.
what is happened?
I am all right, mr. leland.  only there was some fellows out front that thought they ought to take things up with me.  i learned 'em! did not i, officer?
if you had not come along and protected me when you did, I would have killed them fellows.
go and get yourself washed up, mr. bernstein.  there does not seem to be an serious injury.
not to me.  but you will let that cop go home with mr. kane, will not you?
yes, mr. bernstein.
first of all -
what is wrong, brad?
I am drunk.
I will get you some coffee.
first of all, i will not write a good review of a play because somebody paid a thousand dollars for an advertisement in the "enquirer."
that is just a little promotion scheme. nobody expects you -  mike, will you try and get mr. leland some coffee?
charlie, it is just no go.  we can not agree anymore.  i wish you would let me go to chicago.
why, brad?
i want to be transferred to the new paper.  you have been saying yourself you wish you had somebody to -  that is not what i wanted to talk about.
I will tell you what I will do, brad - I will get drunk, too - maybe that will help.
no, that will not help.  besides, you never get drunk.  i wanted to talk about you and emily.
all right.
she is going to leave you -
i do not think so, brad.  we have just had word that the president is out of danger.  it seems i did not kill him after all.
she was going to leave you anyway -
emily's going south next week with the child.  as far as anybody's to know, it is a holiday.  when they get back -
brad, you are drunk.
sure i am.  she wants full custody of the child no matter what happens. if you will not agree to that, she will apply for a divorce regardless of the president's wishes.  i can not tell her she is wrong, because she is not wrong -
why is she leaving me?
she has not any friends left sine you started this oil business, and she never sees you.
do you think the "enquirer" should not have campaigned against the oil leases?
you might have made the whole thing less personal!
there is no reason why this - this savage personal note -
the personal note is all there is to it.  it is all there ever is to it.  it is all there every is to anything!  stupidity in our government, complacency and self-satisfaction and unwillingness to believe that anything done by a certain class of people can be wrong - you can not fight those things impersonally. they are not impersonal crimes against people.  they are being done by actual persons - with actual names and positions and - the right of the american people to own their own country is not an academic issue, brad, that you debate - and then the judges retire to return a verdict and the winners give a dinner for the losers.
you almost convince me.  I am just drunk enough to tell you the truth.  i have to be a little drunk for that because I am a coward.  you know that.  that is why you keep me around.  you only associate with your inferiors, charlie.  i guess that is why you ran away from emily.  because you can not stand the company of your equals.  you do not like to admit they exist - the other big people in your world are dead. i told you that.
you talk about the people of the united states as though they belonged to you.  when you find out they do not think they are, you will lose interest.  you talk about giving them their rights as though you could make a present of liberty. remember the working man?  you used to defend him quite a good deal. well, he is turning into something called organized labor and you do not like that at all.  and listen, when your precious underprivileged really get together - that is going to add up to something bigger than - than your privilege and then i do not know what you will do - sail away to a desert island, probably, and lord it over the monkeys.
are you finished?
yes.  now, will you let me go to chicago?
you are not going to like it in chicago.  they wind comes howling in from the lake.  and there is practically no opera season at all - and the lord only knows whether they have ever heard of lobster newburg -
that is all right.  what are you going to do about emily?
nothing - if she dosen't love me -
you want love on your own terms, do not you, charlie -  love according to your own rules. and if anything goes wrong and you are hurt - then the game stops, and you have got to be soothed and nursed, no matter what else is happening - and no matter who else is hurt!
it is simpler than that, brad.  a society girl can not stand the gaff, that is all.  other things are important to her - social position, what they are saying on the front porches at southampton, is it going to be embarrassing to meet somebody or the other at dinner -
she can leave me.  as a matter of fact, I have already left her.  do not worry, brad - I will live.
i know you will.
hey, brad!  I have been analyzed an awful lot tonight - let's have another brandy.
you still want to be transferred to the other paper?
yes.
well, you have been getting a pretty low salary here in new york.  it seems to me that the new dramatic critic of our chicago paper should get what he is worth.
i could not possibly live on as little as that, charlie.  we will let the salary stay where it is.
what do you expect me to do?  what in the world -
charles.
they will not do anything to junior, darling.  anonymous letter writers -   I have got guards in front of the house, and I am going to arrange -
please do not talk any more, charles.
have they heard from father yet? has he seen -
I have tried to tell you, emily. the president's going to be all right.  he had a comfortable night. there is no danger of any kind.
here i am, darling...  darling!... darling, it is all right...  mother's here.
emily - you musn't leave me now - you can not do that to me.
they will not hurt you, darling. mother's with you!  mother's looking after you!
we will withdraw support completely. anything else?
mr. leland sent back that check.
what check?
you made it out to him last week after he left for chicago.
oh, yes, the bonus.
it was for twenty-five thousand dollars.
it does seem too good to be true, does not it, mr. bernstein?
rogers is not even pretending.  he is not just scared anymore.  he is sick.  frank norris told me last night he has not known rogers to be that worried in twenty-five years.
i think it is beginning to dawn on mr. rogers that i mean what i say. with mr. rogers out of the way, reilly, i think we may really begin to hope for a good government in this state.  well, mr. bernstein?
it is wonderful, mr. kane.  wonderful. wonderful.
you do not really think so?
i do.  i do.  i mean, since you are running for governor - and you want to be elected -  i think it is wonderful you are going to be elected.  only -  -  can i say something?
please, mr. bernstein.
well, the way i look at it -  -  you want to know what i really think would be wonderful?
I am sending junior home in the car, charles - with oliver -
but I would arranged to go home with you myself.
there is a call i want you to make with me, charles.
it can wait.
no, it can't.  good night, darling.
what is this all about, emily?  I have had a very tiring day and -
it may not be about anything at all.
i intend to find out.
i insist on being told exactly what you have in mind.
I am going to -  - 185 west 74th street.
how do you do?  i came here - and i made mr. kane come with me...  because i recieved this note -
i made miss - miss alexander send you the note.  she was a little unwilling at first -  but she did it.
i can not tell you the things he said, charlie.  you have not got any idea -
rogers, i do not think i will postpone doing something about you until I am elected.  to start with, I will break your neck.
maybe you can do it and maybe you can't, mr. kane.
charles!  your - your breaking this man's neck -  would scarcely explain this note -  serious consequences for mr. kane -  for myself, and for my son.  what does this note mean, miss -
she does not know, mrs. kane.  she just sent it - because i made her see it would not be smart for her not to send it.
in case you do not know, emily, this - this gentleman -  is -
I am not a gentleman, mrs. kane, and your husband is just trying to be funny calling me one.  i do not even know what a gentleman is.  you see, my idea of a gentleman, mrs. kane - well, if i owned a newspaper and if i did not like the way somebody else was doing things - some politican, say - I would fight them with everything i had.  only i would not show him in a convict suit, with stripes - so his children could see the picture in the paper.  or his mother.  it is pretty clear - I am not a gentleman.
oh!!
you are a cheap, crooked grafter - and your concern for your children and your mother -
anything you say, mr. kane.  only we are talking now about what you are.  that is what the note is about, mrs. kane.  now I am going to lay all my cards on the table.  I am fighting for my life.  not just my political life.  my life.  if your husband is elected governor -
I am going to be elected governor. and the first thing I am going to do -
let him finish, charles.
I am protecting myself every way i know how, mrs. kane.  this last week, i finally found out how i can stop your husband from being elected. if the people of this state learn what i found out this week, he would not have a chance to - he could not be elected dog catcher.  well, what I am interested in is seeing that he is not elected.  i do not care whether they know what i know about him.  let him keep right on being the great, noble, moral -  champeen of the people.  just as long as -
i think i understand, mr. rogers, but i wonder if -
you can not blackmail me, rogers, you can not -
charlie, he said, unless you withdrew your name -
what story, mr. rogers?
the story about him and miss alexander, mrs. kane.
you do anything you want to do. the people of this state can decide which one of us to trust.  if you want to know, they have already decided. the election tuesday'll be only -
mrs. kane, I am not asking you to believe me.  I would like to show you -
you do not have to show me anything, mr. rogers.  i believe you.
I would rather mr. kane withdrew without having to get the story published. not that i care about him.  but I would be better off that way -  - and so would you, mrs. kane.
you do not think I am going to let this blackmailer intimidate me, do you?
i do not see what else you can do, charles.  if he is right - and the papers publish this story he has -
oh, they will publish it all right. but that is not going to stop me -
charles, this - this story - does not concern only you.  I will be in it, too, will not i?  and junior?
i suppose so, but - I am not afraid of the story.  you can not tell me that the voters of this state -
I am not interested in the voters of this state right now.  i am interested in - well, junior, for one thing.
oh yes, there is.
i do not think so.  are you coming, charles?
no.
there is only one person in the world to decide what I am going to do - and that is me.  and if you think - if any of you think -
you decided what you were going to do, charles - some time ago.  you can not always have it your own way, regardless of anything else that may have happened.  come on, charles.
go on!  get out!  i can fight this thing all alone!
you are making a bigger fool of yourself than i thought you would, mr. kane.  you are licked.  why do not you -
get out!  I have got nothing to talk to you about.  if you want to see me, have the warden write me a letter.
i see!
charlie, you are just excited.  you do not realize -
i know exactly what I am doing.  get out!
charles, if you do not listen to reason, it may be too late -
too late for what?  too late for you and this -  this public thief to take the love of the people of this state away from me?  well, you will not do it, i tell you.  you will not do it!
get out, both of you!
charlie, please do not -
what are you waiting here for? why do not you go?
you are the greatest fool I have ever known, kane.  if it was anybody else, I would say what is going to happen to you would be a lesson to you.  only you are going to need more than one lesson. and you are going to get more than one lesson.
do not you worry about me.  I am charles foster kane.  I am no cheap, crooked politician, trying to save himself from the consequences of his crimes -
hello, brad -
emily -
I am sorry i sent for you, brad - i did not -
chicago is pretty close to new york nowadays - only twenty hours -
almost two to one -
I am surprised he got the votes he did.
emily!
why should anyone vote for him? he is made it quite clear to the people what he thinks of them. children - to be told one thing one day, something else the next, as the whim seizes him.  and they are supposed to be grateful and love and adore him - because he sees to it that they get cheap ice and only pay a nickel in the street cars.
emily, you are being - a little unfair -  you know what i think of charles' behavior - about your personal lives -
there are not any personal lives for people like us.  he made that very clear to me nine years ago - if I would thought of my life with charles as a personal life, I would have left him then -
i know that, emily -
maybe i should have - the first time he showed me what a mad dog he really was.
emily, you -
brad, I am -  I am not an old woman yet -
it is - all over -
i know it is, brad -
he is paying for it, emily.  those returns tonight - he is finished. politically -  - socially, everywhere, i guess. i do not know about the papers, but -
if you are asking me to sympathize with him, brad, you are wasting your time.  there is only one person I am sorry for, as a matter of fact.  that - that shabby little girl.  I am really sorry for her, brad.
hello, mr. leland.
hello, bernstein.
where is it - where is my notice? I have got to finish it!
mr. kane is finishing it.
kane?  charlie?  where is he?
i suppose he is fixing it up - i know I would never get that through.
mr. kane is finishing your piece the way you started it.
hello, brad.
hello, charlie -  i did not know we were speaking.
well, that is about all there is - and I am getting chills.  hey, nurse!  five years ago, he wrote from that place of his down south -  - you know.  shangri-la?  el dorado?  sloppy joe's?  what is the name of that place?  you know...  all right. xanadu.  i knew what it was all the time.  you caught on, did not you?
yes.
i guess maybe I am not as hard to see through as i think.  anyway, i never even answered his letter. maybe i should have.  i guess he was pretty lonely down there those last years.  he had not finished it when she left him - he never finished it - he never finished anything.  of course, he built it for her -
that must have been love.
i do not know.  he was disappointed in the world.  so he built one of his own -  an absolute monarchy -  it was something bigger than an opera house anyway -  nurse!  say, I will tell you one thing you can do for me, young fellow.
sure.
on your way out, stop at a cigar store, will you, and send me up a couple of cigars?
sure, mr. leland.  I will be glad to.
hey, nurse!
how do you want to handle the whole thing - ask questions?
I would rather you just talked.  anything that comes into your mind - about yourself and mr. kane.
you would not want to hear a lot of what comes into my mind about myself and mr. charlie kane.
how did you meet him?
i had a toothache.
ow!
what is the matter with you?
toothache.
hmm!
you have got some on your face.
if these sidewalks were kept in condition - instead of the money going to some cheap grafter -
what is funny now?
you are.  you look like you have been making mud pies.
oh!
you are no venus de milo.
if you want to come in and wash your face -  i can get you some hot water to get that dirt off your trousers -
thanks.
hey, you should be more careful. that is my ma and pa.
I am sorry.  they live here, too?
no.  they have passed on.
where is the soap?
in the water.
you are very easily amused.
i always like to see the funny side of things.  no sense crying when you do not have to.  and you are so funny.  looking at you, i forget all about my toothache.
oh!
i can not stay here all night chasing your pain away.
i know...  but you do look so silly.
where is the towel?
on the chiffonier.  here.
thanks.
I have got a brush in the closet.  as soon as the mud on your trousers is all dry - you just brush it off.
I will get these streets fixed, if it is the last thing i do.
a chicken?
no.  but you are close.
a rooster?
you are getting farther away all the time.  it is a duck.
excuse me, mr. kane.  i know this takes a lot of nerve, but - who are you?  i mean - I am pretty ignorant, i guess you caught on to that -
you really do not know who i am?
no.  that is, i bet it turns out I have heard your name a million times, only you know how it is -
but you like me, do not you?  even though you do not know who i am?
you have been wonderful!  i can not tell you how glad i am you are here, i do not know many people and -
and i know too many people.  obviously, we are both lonely.  would you like to know where i was going tonight - when you ran into me and ruined my sunday clothes?
i did not run into you and i bet they are not your sunday clothes. you have probably got a lot of clothes.
i was only joking!  this evening i was on my way to the western manhattan warehouses - in search of my youth.
who am i?  well, let's see.  charles foster kane was born in new salem, colorado in eighteen six -  i run a couple of newspapers.  how about you?
oh, me -
how old did you say you were?
i did not say.
i did not think you did.  if you had, i would not have asked you again, because I would have remembered. how old?
pretty old.  I will be twenty-two in august.
that is a ripe old age -  what do you do?
i work at seligman's.
is that what you want to do?
i want to be a singer.  i mean, i didn't.  mother did for me.
what happened to the singing? you are not in a show, are you?
oh, no!  nothing like that.  mother always thought - she used to talk about grand opera for me.  imagine! an american girl, for one thing - and then my voice is not really that kind anyway, it is just that mother - you know what mothers are like.
yes -
as a matter of fact, i do sing a little.
would you sing for me?
oh, you would not want to hear me sing.
yes, i would.  that is why i asked.
well, i -
do not tell me your toothache is bothering you again?
oh, no, that is all gone.
then you have no alibi at all. please sing.
i did a lot of singing after that. i sang for charlie -  i sang for teachers at a hundred bucks an hour - the teachers got that, i did not -
what did you get?
what do you mean?
i did not get a thing.  just the music lessons.  that is all there was to it.
he married you, did not he?
he was in love with me.  but he never told me so until after it all came out in the papers about us - and he lost the election and that norton woman divorced him.
what about that apartment?
he wanted me to be comfortable - oh, why should i bother?  you do not believe me, but it is true.  it just happens to be true.  he was really interested in my voice.  what are you smiling for?  what do you think he built that opera house for?  i did not want it.  i did not want to sing.  it was his idea - everything was his idea - except my leaving him.
impossible!  impossible!
your job is not to give mrs. kane your opinion of her talents. you are supposed to train her voice. nothing more.
but, it is impossible.  i will be the laughingstock of the musical world!  people will say -
if you are interested in what people say, signor matisti, i may be able to enlighten you a bit.  the newspapers, for instance.  I am an authority on what the papers will say, signor matisti, because i own eight of them between here and san francisco...  it is all right, dear. signor matisti is going to listen to reason.  are not you, maestro?
mr. kane, how can i persuade you -
you can't.
get dr. corey.
yes, sir.
the nurse has complete instructions, but if you care to talk to me at any time, i should be only too glad -  i shall be here in the morning.
thank you.  i can not imagine how mrs. kane came to make such a silly mistake.  the sedative dr. wagner gave her is in a somewhat larger bottle -  i suppose the strain of preparing for her trip has excited and confused her.
I am sure that is it.
there are no objections to my staying here with her, are there?
not at all.  I would like the nurse to be here, too.
of course.
i could not make you see how i felt, charlie.  i just could not -  i could not go threw with singing again. you do not know what it means to feel - to know that people - that an audience do not want you.  that if you have not got what they want - a real voice - they just do not care about you.  even when they are polite - and they do not laugh or get restless or - you know... they do not want you.  they just 0
that is when you have got to fight them. that is when you have got to make them. that is -
charlie!  i said, what time is it?
half past eleven.
i mean in new york.
half past eleven.
at night?
yes.  the bulldog's just gone to press.
hurray for the bulldog!  half past eleven!  the shows have just let out.  people are going to night clubs and restaurants.  of course, we are different.  we live in a palace - at the end of the world.
you always said you wanted to live in a palace.
can not we go back, charlie?
it makes a whole lot more sense than collecting venuses.
you may be right -  i sometimes wonder - but you get into the habit -
it is not a habit.  i do it because i like it.
i was referring to myself.  i thought we might have a picnic tomorrow - it might be a nice change after the wild west party tonight.  invite everybody to go to the everglades -
invite everybody!  order everybody, you mean, and make them sleep in tents!  who wants to sleep in tents when they have a nice room of their own - with their own bath, where they know where everything is?
i mean it.  oh, i know i always say i mean it, and then i do not - or you get me so i do not do what i say I am going to - but -
you are in a tent, darling.  you are not at home.  and i can hear you very well if you just talk in a normal tone of voice.
I am not going to have my guests insulted, just because you think -  - if people want to bring a drink or two along on a picnic, that is their business.  you have got no right -
I have got more than a right as far as you are concerned, susan.
oh, I am sick and tired of you telling me what i must and what i musn't do!
you are my wife, susan, and -
I am not just your wife, I am a person all by myself - or i ought to be.  i was once.  sometimes you get me to believing i never was.
we can discuss all this some other time, susan.  right now -
I will discuss what is on my mind when i want to.  you are not going to keep on running my life the way you want it.
as far as you are concerned, susan, I have never wanted anything -  i do not want anything now - except what you want.
what you want me to want, you mean. what you have decided i ought to have - what you would want if you were me. but you have never given me anything that -
susan, i really think -
oh, i do not mean the things you have given me - that do not mean anything to you.  what is the difference between giving me a bracelet or giving somebody else a hundred thousand dollars for a statue you are going to keep crated up and never look at?  it is only money.  it does not mean anything. you are not really giving anything that belongs to you, that you care about.
susan, i want you to stop this. and right now!
well, I am not going to stop it.  I am going to say exactly what i think.  you have never given me anything.  you have tried to buy me into giving you something.  you are -  - it is like you were bribing me!  that is what it is been from the first moment i met you.  no matter how much it cost you - your time, your money - that is what you have done with everybody you have ever known.  tried to bribe them!
susan!
you are talking an incredible amount of nonsense, susan.  whatever i do -  i do - because i love you.
love!  you do not love anybody!  me or anybody else!  you want to be loved - that is all you want!  I am charles foster kane.  whatever you want - just name it and it is yours! only love me!  do not expect me to love you -
you will never have another chance to hit me again.  i never knew till this minute -
susan, it seems to me -
do not tell me you are sorry.
I am not sorry.
I am going to leave you.
no, you are not.
yes.
mrs. kane would like to see you, mr. kane.
all right.
is mrs. kane -
marie has been packing since morning, mr. kane.
do not you realize that everybody here is going to know about this? that you have packed your bags and ordered the car and -
- and left?  of course they will hear.  I am not saying goodbye - except to you - but i never imagined that people would not know.
i will not let you go.
you can not stop me.
goodbye, charlie.
do not go, susan.
let's not start all over again, charlie.  we have said everything that can be said.
susan, do not go!  susan, please!
in case you have never heard of how i lost all my money - and it was plenty, believe me -
the last ten years have been tough on a lot of people.
they have not been tough on me.  i just lost my money.  but when i compare these last ten years with the twenty i spent with him -
i feel kind of sorry for him, all the same -
do not you think i do?  you say you are going down to xanadu?
monday, with some of the boys from the office.  mr. rawlston wants the whole place photographed carefully - all that art stuff.  we run a picture magazine, you know -
i know.  if you are smart, you will talk to raymond.  that is the butler. you can learn a lot from him.  he knows where the bodies are buried.
yes, sir - yes, sir, i knew how to handle the old man.  he was kind of queer, but i knew how to handle him.
queer?
yeah.  i guess he was not very happy those last years - he did not have much reason to be -
close the door, raymond.
yes, sir.
lock it - and keep it locked.
raymond -
yes, sir -
do you like poetry, raymond?
can not say, sir.
mrs. kane liked poetry -
yes, mr. kane.
not my wife - not either of them.
oh, yes, sir.
do you know what that is?
it is a wall you bought in china, mr. kane.
persia.  it belonged to a king.
how did you get him to part with it, mr. kane?
he was dead...  that is a poem.  do you know what it means?
no, i don't, mr. kane.
i did not used to be afraid of it.
that is the whole works, right up to date.
sentimental fellow, are not you?
yes and no.
well, thanks a lot.
see what i mean?  he was a little gone in the head - the last couple of years, anyway - but i knew how to handle him.  that "rosebud" - that do not mean anything.  i heard him say it. he just said "rosebud" and then he dropped that glass ball and it broke on the floor.  he did not say anything about that, so i knew he was dead - he said all kind of things i could not make out.  but i knew how to take care of him.
you can go on asking questions if you want to.
we are leaving tonight.  as soon as they are through photographing the stuff -
what do you think all that is worth, mr. thompson?
millions - if anybody wants it.
the banks are out of luck, eh?
oh, i do not know.  they will clear all right.
yeah, all in crates.
there is a part of a scotch castle over there, but we have not bothered to unwrap it.
i wonder how they put all those pieces together?
anything and everything - he was a regular crow.
i wonder -  you put all this together - the palaces and the paintings and the toys and everything - what would it spell?
or rosebud?  how about it, jerry?
turn that thing off, will you?  it is driving me nuts!  what is rosebud?
kane's last words, are not they, jerry?  that was jerry's angle, was not it, jerry? did you ever find out what it means, jerry?
