thanks. have a good one.
do you mind if i drink this here?
sure. go ahead.
are you open?
yeah.
pack of cigarettes.
are you sure?
am i sure?
are you sure?
am i sure about what?
do you really want to buy those cigarettes?
are you serious?
how long have you been smoking?
what is this, a poll?
beats me.
how long have you been a smoker?
I would say you are about nineteen, twenty, am i right?
what the hell is that?
that is your lung. by this time, your lung looks like this.
you are shittin' me.
you think I am shitting you...
what is this?
it is a trach ring. it is what they install in your throat when throat cancer takes your voice box. this one came out of a sixty-year-old man.
unnhh!
he smoked until the day he died. used to put the cigarette in this thing and smoke it that way.
excuse me, but...
this is where you are heading. a cruddy lung, smoking through a hole in your throat. do you really want that?
well, if it is already too late...
it is never too late. give those cigarettes back now, and buy some gum instead.  here. chewlies gum. try this.
it is not the same.
it is cheaper than cigarettes. and it certainly beats this.
jesus!
it is a picture of a cancer-ridden lung. keep it.
I will just take the gum.
fifty-five.
you have made a wise choice. keep up the good work.
maybe you should take that coffee outside.
no, i think I will drink it in here, thanks.
if you are going to drink it in here, I would appreciate it if you would not bother the customers.
okay. I am sorry about that.
pack of cigarettes.  what is that?
this? how long have you been smoking?
hey, now wait a sec...
now he is going to launch into his rap about how he is just doing his job; following orders.  friends, let me tell you about another bunch of hate mongers that were just following orders: they were called nazis, and they practically wiped a nation of people from the earth... just like cigarettes are doing now! cigarette smoking is the new holocaust, and those that partake in the practice of smoking or sell the wares that promote it are the nazis of the nineties! he does not care how many people die from it! he smiles as you pay for your cancer sticks and says, "have a nice day."
i think you would better leave now.
you want me to leave? why? because somebody is telling it like it is? somebody is giving these fine people a wake-up call?!
you are loitering in here, and causing a disturbance.
you are the disturbance, pal! and here...  I am buying some... what is this?... chewlie's gum. there. I am no longer loitering. I am a customer, a customer engaged in a discussion with other customers.
that is it, everybody out.
we are not moving! we have a right, a constitutional right, to assemble and be heard!
yeah, but not in here.
what better place than this? to stamp it out, you gotta start at the source!
like I am responsible for all the smokers!
the ones in this town, yes! you encourage their growth, their habit. you are the source in this area, and we are going to shut you down for good! for good, cancer-merchant!
all right, stupid question. but do not you think you are taking this a bit too hard?
too hard?! i do not have enough indignities in my life-people start throwing cigarettes at me!
at least they were not lit.
i hate this fucking place.
then quit. you should be going to school anyway...
please, veronica. last thing i need is a lecture at this point.
all I am saying is that if you are unhappy you should leave.
I am not even supposed to be here today!
i know. i stopped by your house and your mom said you left at like six or something.
the guy got sick and could not come in.
do not you have a hockey game at two?
yes! and I am going to play like shit because i did not get a good night's sleep!
why did you agree to come in then?
I am only here until twelve, then I am gone. the boss is coming in.
why do not you open the shutters and get some sunlight in here?
somebody jammed the locks with gum.
you are kidding.
bunch of savages in this town.
you look bushed. what time did you get to bed?
i do not know-like two-thirty, three.
what were you doing up so late?
hunhh? nothing.
what were you doing?
nothing! jesus! i gotta fight with you now?
who is fighting? why are you so defensive?
who is defensive?  just... would you just hug me?! all right? your boyfriend was accosted by an angry mob, and he needs to be hugged.
what? what is that?
she called you, did not she?
oh, be real! would you... would you please hug me?  i just went through a very traumatic experience and i have not been having the best day so far. now come on.
how much money did you leave up there?
like three dollars in mixed change and a couple of singles. people only get the paper of coffee this time of morning.
you are trusting.
why do you say that?
how do you know they are taking the right amount of change? or even paying for what they take?
theoretically, people see money on the counter and nobody around, they think they are being watched.
honesty through paranoia. why do you smell like shoe polish?
i had to use shoe polish to make that sign. the smell will not come off.
do you think anyone can see us down here?
why? you wanna have sex or something?
ooh! can we?!
really?
i was kidding.
yeah, right. you can not get enough of me.
typically male point of view.
how do you figure?
you show some bedroom proficiency, and you think you are gods. what about what we do for you?
women? women, as lovers, are all basically the same: they just have to be there.
"be there?"
making a male climax is not all that challenging: insert somewhere close and preferably moist; thrust; repeat.
how flattering.
now, making a woman cum... therein lies a challenge.
oh, you think so?
a girl makes a guy cum, it is standard. a guy makes a girl cum, it is talent.
and i actually date you?
something wrong?
I am insulted. believe me, don juan, it takes more than that to get a guy off. just "being there"-as you put it-is not enough.
i touched a nerve.
I am astonished to hear you trivialize my role in our sex life.
it was not directed at you. i was making a broad generalization.
you were making a generalization about "broads!"
these are my opinions based on my experiences with the few women who were good enough to sleep with me.
how many?
how many what?
how many girls have you slept with?
how many different girls? did not we already have this discussion once?
we might have; i do not remember. how many?
including you?
it better be up to and including me.
twelve.
you have slept with twelve different girls?
including you; yes.
what the hell was that for?
you are a pig.
why did you hit me?
do you know how many different men I have had sex with?
do i get to hit you after you tell me?
three.
three?
three including you.
you have only had sex with three different people?
I am not the pig you are.
who?
you!
no; who were the three, besides me?
john franson and rob stanslyk.
wow. that is great. that is something to be proud of.
i am. and that is why you should feel like a pig. you men make me sick. you will sleep with anything that says yes.
animal, vegetable, or mineral.
vegetable meaning paraplegic.
they put up the least amount of struggle.
after dropping a bombshell like that, you owe me. big.
all right. name it.
i want you to come with me on monday.
where?
to school. there is a seminar about getting back into a scholastic program after a lapse in enrollment.
can not we ever have a discussion without that coming up?
it is important to me, dante. you have so much potential that just goes to waste in this pit. i wish you would go back to school.
jesus, would you stop? you make my head hurt when you talk about this.
shit! why are we getting up?
unlike you, i have a class in forty- five minutes.
willam!
ronnie! how are you? you work here now?
no, I am just visiting my man.  dante, this is willam black.  this is dante hicks, my boyfriend.
no, i transferred into monmouth this year. i was tired of missing him.
do you still talk to sylvan?
i just talked to her on monday. we still hang out on weekends.
that is cool. well-you two lovebirds take it easy, all right?
i will. take it easy.
bye.
bye  that was snowball.
why do you call him that?
sylvan made it up. it is a blow job thing.
what do you mean?
after he gets a blow job, he likes to have the cum spit back into his mouth while kissing. it is called snowballing.
he requested this?
he gets off on it.
sylvan can be talked into anything.
why do you say that?
like you said-she snowballed him.
sylvan? no; i snowballed him.
yeah, right.
I am serious...
you sucked that guy's dick?
yeah. how do you think i know he liked...
but... but you said you only had sex with three guys! you never mentioned him!
that is because i never had sex with him!
you sucked his dick!
we went out a few times. we did not have sex, but we fooled around.
oh my god! why did you tell me you only slept with three guys?
because i did only sleep with three guys! that does not mean i did not just go with people.
oh my god-i feel so nauseous...
I am sorry, dante. i thought you understood.
i did understand! i understand that you slept with three different guys, and that is all you said.
please calm down.
how many?
dante...
how many dicks have you sucked?!
let it go...
how many?
all right! shut up a second and I will tell you! jesus! i did not freak like this when you told me how many girls you fucked.
this is different. this is important. how many?!
well...?
something like thirty-six.
what? something like thirty-six?
lower your voice!
what the hell is that anyway, "something like thirty-six?" does that include me?
um. thirty-seven.
I am thirty-seven?
I am going to class.
thirty-seven?!  my girlfriend sucked thirty-seven dicks!
hey! where are you going?!
hey listen, jerk! until today you never even knew how many guys I would slept with, because you never even asked. and then you act all nonchalant about fucking twelve different girls. well, i never had sex with twelve different guys!
no, but you sucked enough dick!
yeah, i went down on a few guys...
a few?
...and one of those guys was you! the last one, i might add, which-if you are too stupid to comprehend- means that I have been faithful to you since we met! all the other guys i went with before i met you, so, if you want to have a complex about it, go ahead!  but do not look at me like I am the town whore, because you were plenty busy yourself, before you met me!
well... why did you have to suck their dicks? why did not you just sleep with them, like any decent person?!
because going down it is a big deal! i used to like a guy, we would make out, and sooner or later I would go down on him. but i only had sex with the guys i loved.
i feel sick.
i love you. do not feel sick.
every time i kiss you now I am going to taste thirty-six other guys.
I am going to school. maybe later you will be a bit more rational.
thirty-seven. i just can't...
goodbye, dante.
it is not like it is a demanding job. I would like to get paid to sit on my ass and watch tv. the other day i walked in there and that sonofabitch was sleeping.
I am sure he was not sleeping.
you calling me a liar?
no; he was probably just resting his eyes.
what the hell is that? resting his eyes! it is not like he is some goddamned air traffic controller!
actually, that is his night job.
such a wiseass. but go ahead. crack wise. that is why you are jockeying a register in some fucking local convenience store instead of doing an honest day's work.  i got no more time to bullshit around waiting for that sonofabitch.  you make sure this gets back. the number's eight-twelve-wynarski. and i wanted to get a damn movie, too.
if you will just tell me the title of your rental choice, I will have him hold it for you.
do not hurt yourself. I am going to big choice video instead.
the guy am not here yet.
you are kidding. it is almost eleven- thirty!
i know. I have been here since eleven.
man! i hate it when i can not rent videos!
i would have went to big choice, but the tape i want is right there on the wall.
which one?
dental school.
you came for that too? that is the movie i came for.
i have first dibs.
says who?
says me. I have been here for half an hour. I would call that first dibs.
am not going to happen, my friend. I am getting that tape.
like hell you are!
I will bet you twenty bucks you do not get to rent that tape.
twenty bucks?
twenty bucks.
all right, asshole, you are on.
you are late.
what the hell are you doing here? i thought you were playing hockey at one.
the boss called. arthur fell ill.
why are the shutters closed?
someone jammed gum in the locks.
bunch of savages in this town.
that is what i said.
shit, if I would known you were working, i would have come even later.
what time do you have to stay till?
he assured me that he would be here by twelve.
what smells like shoe polish?
go open the sore.
some guy just came in refusing to pay late fees. he said the store was closed for two hours yesterday.  i tore up his membership.
shocking abuse of authority.
I am a firm believer in the philosophy of a ruling class, especially since i rule.  is the pelican flying?
do not screw with it. it makes us look suspicious.
i can not stand a voyeur. I will be back.
want something to drink? I am buying.
no, thanks.
who was on your phone this morning at about two-thirty? i was trying to call for a half an hour.
why?
i wanted to use your car.
you do not want to know.
you called caitlin again?
she called me.
did you tell veronica?
one fight a day with veronica is about all i can stomach, thanks.
what do you two fight about?
i guess it is not really fighting. she just wants me to leave here, go back to school, get some direction.
I will bet the most frequent topic of arguments is caitlin bree.
you win.
I am going to offer you some advice, my friend: let the past be the past. forget caitlin bree. you have been with veronica for how long now?
seven months.
chick's nuts about you. how long did you date caitlin?
five years.
chick only made you nuts. she cheated on you how many times?
eight and a half.
eight and a half?
party at john k's-senior year. i get blitzed and pass out in his bedroom. caitlin comes in and dives all over me.
that is cheating?
in the middle of it, she calls me brad.
she called you brad?
she called me brad.
that is not cheating. people say crazy shit during sex. one time, i called this girl "mom."
i hit the lights and she freaks. turns out she thought i was brad michaelson.
what do you mean?
she was supposed to meet brad michaelson in a bedroom. she picked the wrong one. she had no idea i was even at the party.
oh, my god.
great story, is not it?
that girl was vile to you.
interesting postscript to that story: do you know who wound up going with brad michaelson in the other dark bedroom?
your mother.
allan harris.
chess team allan harris?!
the two moved to idaho together after graduation. they raise sheep.
that is frightening.
it takes different strokes to move the world.
in light of this lurid tale, i do not see how you could even romanticize your relationship with caitlin-she broke your heart and inadvertently drove men to deviant lifestyles.
because there was a lot of good in our relationship.
oh yeah.
I am serious. aside from the cheating, we were a great couple.  that is what high school's all about-algebra, bad lunch, and infidelity.
you think things would be any different now?
they are. when she calls me now, she is a different person-she's frightened and vulnerable. she is about to finish college and enter the real world. that is got to be scary for anyone.
oh shit, I have got to place an order.
I am talking to myself here.
no, no, I am listening. she is leaving college, and...?
...and she is looking to me for support. and i think that this is leading our relationship to a new level.
what about veronica?
i think the arguments veronica and i are having are some kind of manifestation of a subconscious desire to break away from her so that i can pursue the possibility of a more meaningful relationship with caitlin.
caitlin's on the same wave-length?
i think it is safe to say yes.
then i think all four of you had better sit down and talk it over.
all four?
you, veronica, caitlin...  ...and caitlin's fianc.
oh shit, look who it is. the human vacuum.
scumbag. what are you doing?
nothing. just hanging out with silent bob and his cousin.
he is your cousin?
check this out, he is from russia.
no way.
i swear to god. silent bob, am i lying?
what part of russia?
i do not fucking know. what am i, his biographer?  olaf, what part of russia are you from?
he only speaks russian?
he knows some english, but he can not not speak it good like we do.
is he staying here?
he is moving to the big city next week. he wants to be a metal singer.
no way!
swear.  olaf, metal!
what did he say?
i do not know, man. he is a fucking character.
he really wants to play metal?
he is got his own band in moscow. it is called "fuck your yankee blue jeans" or something like that.
that does not sound metal.
you gotta hear him sing.  olaf, "berserker!"
come on, man, "berserker!"
does he sing in english or russian?
english.  come on, "berserker!" girls think sexy.
did he say "making fuck?"
wait, there is more.  olaf: sing...
you hold the counter and I will pull.
usually i just turn the can upside down.
maybe we should soap your hand or something.
they oughta put some kind of warning on these cans, like they do with cigarettes.
i think it is coming now...
thanks. i thought i was gonna have to go to the hospital.
I will throw this out. precautionary measure.
it stings a little.
a word of advice: sometimes it is best to let those hard to reach chips go.
do you know that article is accurate? caitlin's really getting married!
you know what i just watched?
me pulling a can off some moron's fist.
return of the jedi.
did not you hear me? caitlin really is getting married.
which did you like better: jedi or the empire strikes back.
empire.
blasphemy.
empire had the better ending: luke gets his hand cut off, and finds out vader's his father; han gets frozen and taken away by boba fett.  it ends on such a down note. and that is life-a series of down endings. all jedi had was a bunch of muppets.
there was something else going on in jedi. i never noticed it until today.
what is that?
all right, vader's boss...
the emperor.
right, the emperor. now the emperor is kind of a spiritual figure, yes?
how do you mean?
well, he is like the pope for the dark side of the force. he is a holy man; a shaman, kind of, albeit an evil one.
i guess.
now, he is in charge of the empire. the imperial government is under his control. and the entire galaxy is under imperial rule.
yeah.
then would not that logically mean that it is a theocracy? if the head of the empire is a priest of some sort, then it stands to reason that the government is therefore one based on religion.
it would stand to reason, yes.
hence, the empire was a fascist theocracy, and the rebel forces were therefore battling religious persecution.
more or less.
the only problem is that at no point in the series did i ever hear leia or any of the rebels declare a particular religious belief.
i think they were catholics.
you know what else i noticed in jedi?
there is more?
so they build another death star, right?
yeah.
now the first one they built was completed and fully operational before the rebels destroyed it.
luke blew it up. give credit where it is due.
and the second one was still being built when they blew it up.
compliments of lando calrissian.
something just never sat right with me the second time they destroyed it. i could never put my finger on it-something just was not right.
and you figured it out?
well, the thing is, the first death star was manned by the imperial army- storm troopers, dignitaries-the only people onboard were imperials.
basically.
so when they blew it up, no prob. evil is punished.
and the second time around...?
the second time around, it was not even finished yet. they were still under construction.
so?
a construction job of that magnitude would require a helluva lot more manpower than the imperial army had to offer. I will bet there were independent contractors working on that thing: plumbers, aluminum siders, roofers.
not just imperials, is what you are getting at.
exactly. in order to get it built quickly and quietly they would hire anybody who could do the job. do you think the average storm trooper knows how to install a toilet main?  all they know is killing and white uniforms.
all right, so even if independent contractors are working on the death star, why are you uneasy with its destruction?
all those innocent contractors hired to do a job were killed- casualties of a war they had nothing to do with.  all right, look-you're a roofer, and some juicy government contract comes your way; you got the wife and kids and the two-story in suburbia-this is a government contract, which means all sorts of benefits. all of a sudden these left-wing militants blast you with lasers and wipe out everyone within a three-mile radius.  you did not ask for that. you have no personal politics. you are just trying to scrape out a living.
you have never heard anybody say anything about either movie?
i find it is best to stay out of other people's affairs.
well, how about these two movies?
i just held up the same two movies. you are not even paying attention.
no, i wasn't.
i do not think your manager would appreciate...
i do not appreciate your ruse, ma'am.
i beg your pardon!
your ruse. your cunning attempt to trick me.
i only pointed out that you were not paying any attention to what i was saying.
i hope it feels good.
you hope what feels good?
i hope it feels so good to be right. there is nothing more exhilarating than pointing out the shortcomings of others, is there?
well this is the last time i ever rent here...
you will be missed.
screw you!
you will never believe what this unruly customer just said...
wait.
she is in here?
this guy is going through all of the eggs. look.
what is he looking for?
he said he has to find a perfect dozen.
perfect dozen.
each egg has to be perfect.
the quest is not going well?
obviously not. look at all the cartons that did not make the grade.
why does not he just mix and match?
i told him that and he yelled at me.
what did he say?
he said it was important to have standards. he said nobody has pride anymore.
it is not like you laid the eggs yourself.
I will give him five more minutes then I am calling the cops. i do not need this, man. I am not even supposed to be here today.
did you ever notice all the prices end in nine? damn, that is eerie.
you know how much money the average jizz-mopper make per hour?
what is a jizz-mopper?
he is the guy in those nudie-booth joints who cleans up after each guy that jerks off.
nudie booth?
nudie booth. you have never been in a nudie booth?
i guess not.
oh, it is great. you step into this little booth and there is this window between you and this naked woman, and she puts on this little show for like ten bucks.
what kind of show?
think of the weirdest, craziest shit you would like to see chicks do.  these chicks do it all. they insert things into any opening in their body... any opening.  he is led a very sheltered life.
can we talk about this later?
the jizz-mopper's job is to clean up the booths afterward, because practically everybody shoots a load against the window, and i do not know if you know or not, but cum leaves streaks if you do not clean it right away.
this is the last time i come to this place.
excuse me?
using filthy language in front of the customers... you should both get fired.
we are sorry, ma'am. we got a little carried away.
well, i do not know if sorry can make up for it. i found your remarks highly offensive.
why do you do things like that? you know she is going to come back and tell the boss.
who cares? that lady's an asshole. everybody that comes in here is way too uptight. this job would be great if it was not for the fucking customers.
I am going to hear it tomorrow.
you got to loosen up, my friend. you would feel a hell of a lot better if you would rip into the occasional customer.
what for? they do not bother me if i do not bother them.
liar! tell me there are not customers that annoy the piss out of you on a daily basis.
there aren't.
how can you lie like that? why do not you vent? vent your frustration. come on, who pisses you off?
it is not really anyone per se, it is more of separate groupings.
let's hear it.
the milkmaids.
the milkmaids?
the women that go through every gallon of milk looking for a later date. as if somewhere-beyond all the other gallons-is a container of milk that will not go bad for like a decade.
you know who i can do without? i could do without the people in the video store.
which ones?
all of them.
no.
why not?
because my ex-girlfriend is getting married.
jesus, you got a one-track mind. it is always caitlin, caitlin, caitlin...
veronica!
he still has not shown up. why are not you in class?
lit 101 got canceled, so i stopped home and brought you some lunch.
what is it?
peanut butter and jelly with the crusts cut off. what do you think it is? it is lasagne.
really?  you are the best.
I am glad you have calmed down a bit.  hi, randal.
thirty-seven!
shut up!  yes, I have calmed down, I am still not happy about it, but I have been able to deal.
you had to tell him.
i had to tell someone. he put it into perspective.
what did he say?
at least he was not thirty-six.
and that made you feel better?
and he said most of them are college guys, I have never met or seen.
the ostrich syndrome: if you do not see it...
...it is not there. yes.
thank you for being rational.
thank you for the lasagne.
you could not get these shutters open?
i called a locksmith and he said the earliest he could get here it tomorrow.
bummer, well, I have got to head back for the one-thirty class.
what time do you get finished?
eight. but i have a sorority meeting till nine, so I will be back before you close. can we go out and get some coffee?
sure.
good.  I will see you when you close, then. enjoy the lasagne.
all right, now if you are really feeling dangerous tonight, then smokey and the bandit three is the movie you must rent.
this does not even have burt reynolds in it.
hey, neither did et; but that was a great movie, right?
can you come next door? i gotta make a phone call.
smokey three: thumbs up, am i right?
the best burtless movie ever made.
awww, he is so cute. what is his name?
lenin's tomb.
vermont?
can you believe this?!
he did not mention it when he called you this morning?
not a fucking word! slippery shit!
so, what-you're stuck here all day?
fuck!
why did you apologize?
what?
i heard you apologize. why? you have every right in the world to be mad.
i know.
that seems to be the leitmotif in your life; ever backing down.
i do not back down.
yes, you do. you always back down. you assume blame that is not yours, you come in when called as opposed to enjoying your day off, you buckle like a belt.
you know what pisses me off the most?
the fact that I am right about your buckling?
I am going to miss the game.
because you buckled.
would you shut the hell up with that shit? it is not helping.
do not yell at me, pal.
sorry.
see? there you go again.
i can not believe I am going to miss the game!
at least we are stuck here together.
you have got a customer.
pull my laces tighter.
I have got to tell you, my friend: this is one of the ballsiest moves I have ever been privy to. i never would have thought you capable of such blatant disregard of store policy.
i told him i had a game today. it is his own fault.
no argument here. insubordination rules.
i just want to play hockey like i was scheduled to.
dante, let me grab a gatorade.
if you grab a gatorade, then everybody's going to grab one.
so?
so? so nobody's going to want to pay for these gatorades.
what do you care? hey, what smells like shoe polish?
I have got a responsibility here. i can not let everybody grab free drinks.
what responsibility? you are closing the fucking store to play hockey.
he is blunt, but he is got a point.
at least let me maintain some semblance of managerial control here.
all right. jesus, you fuckers are pushy.
hey man, i hear caitlin's marrying an asian drum major.
design major.
can we not talk about this?
are you gonna lock the store?
i do not know. you going to lock the video store?
look who you are asking here. how're we going to block off the street?
we are not playing in the street.
then where are we going to play?
if you can just wait a few more minutes.
fuck that! I am going to break my crazy neck on this ladder!
what the fuck is this?! i want some service!
in a second!
fuck in a second! this is... look at you! you can not even pass!
i can pass!
how 'bout covering point!? you suck!
who are you to make assessments?
I will assess all i want!
like you are better!
i can whip your ass.
that is easy to say from over here.
give me a stick, pretty boy! I will knock your fucking teeth out and pass all over your ass.
are there any balls down there?!
'bout the biggest pair you ever seen! nynne!!
you only brought one ball?!
i thought redding had like three balls!
shit!
we get... what... twelve minutes of game, and it is over? fuck! fuck! fuck! fuck!!  I am not even supposed to be here today!
be careful.
I am trying.
you know the insides of those are filled with stuff that gives you cancer.
so I am told.
i had a friend that used to chew glass for a living. in the circus.
and he got cancer by chewing fluorescent bulb glass...?
no, he got hit by a bus.
oh... can i help you?
well, that depends. do you have a bathroom?
um... yeah, but it is for employees only.
i understand, but can i use it. I am not that young anymore, so I am kind of... you know... incontinent.
uh... sure. go ahead. it is back through the cooler.
thanks son. say-what kind of toilet paper you got back there?
the white kind.
I am not asking about the color. i mean is it rough or cottony?
actually, it is kind of rough.
rough, eh? oh, that stuff rips hell out of my hemorrhoids. say, would you mind if i took a roll of the soft stuff back there. i see you sell the soft stuff.
yeah, but...
aw, c'mon boy. what is the difference? you said yourself the stuff that is there now is rough.
yeah, okay. go ahead.
thanks son, you are a lifesaver.
say, young fella, you know i hate to bother you again, but can i take a paper or something back there... to read?  it usually takes me a while, and i like to read while it is going on.
jesus... go ahead.
thanks, young man. you have got a heart of gold.
you know, you probably could have been home, already, in the time it is taken you to get in there.
can i trouble you for one of those magazines?
i said go ahead.
no, i mean the ones there. behind the counter.
the porno mags?
yeah. i like the cartoons. they make me laugh. they draw the biggest titties.
here. now leave me alone.
uh, can i have the other one. the one below this one. they show more in that one.
helluva game!
one ball!! they come all the way here... i close the damn store... for one ball!
hockey's hockey. at least we got to play.
randal, twelve minutes is not a game! jesus, it is barely a warm-up!
bitch, bitch, bitch. you want something to drink?
gatorade.
what happened to all the gatorade?
exactly. they drank it all.
after an exhausting game like that i can believe it.
"it's not like we are going to sell out."
you know what sanford told me?
i still can not believe caitlin's getting married.
julie dwyer died.
yeah, right.
no, I am serious.
oh, my god.
sanford's brother dates her cousin. he found out this morning.
how? when?
embolism in her brain. yesterday.
jesus.
she was swimming at the ymca pool when it happened. died mid-backstroke.
i have not seen her in almost two years.
correct me if I am wrong, but was not she one of the illustrious twelve?
number six.
you have had sex with a dead person.
I am going to go to her wake.
no, you are not.
why not?
it is today.
what!?
paulsen's funeral parlor. the next show is at four.
shit. what about tomorrow?
one night only. she is buried in the morning.
you have got to watch the store. i have to go to this.
wait, wait, wait. has it occurred to you that i might bereaved as well?
you hardly knew her!
true, but do you know how many people are going to be there? all of our old classmates, to say the least.
stop it. this is beneath even you.
I am not missing what is probably going to be the social event of the season.
you hate people.
but i love gatherings. is not it ironic?
do not be an asshole. somebody has to stay with the store.
if you go, i go.
she meant nothing to you!
she meant nothing to you either until i told you she died.
I am not taking you to this funeral.
I am going with you.
i can not close the store.
you just closed the store to play hockey on the roof!
exactly, which means i can not close it for another hour so we can both go to a wake.
you were saying?
thanks for putting me in a tough spot. you are a good friend.
she was pretty young, hunhh?
twenty-two; same as us.
an embolism in a pool.
an embarrassing way to die.
that is nothing compared to how my cousin walter died.
how did he die?
broke his neck.
that is embarrassing?
he broke his neck trying to suck his own dick.
shut the hell up.
bible truth.
stop it.
i swear.
oh, my god.
come on. have not you ever tried to suck your own dick?
no!
yeah sure. you are so repressed.
because i never tried to suck my own dick?
no, because you will not admit to it. as if a guy's a fucking pervert because he tries to go down on himself. you are as curious as the rest of us, pal. you have tried it.
who found him?
my cousin? my aunt found him. on his bed, doubled over himself with his legs on top. dick in his mouth. my aunt freaked out. it was a mess.
his dick was in his mouth?
balls resting on his lips.
he made it, hunhh?
yeah, but at what a price.
i could never reach.
reach what?
you know.
what, your dick?
yeah. like you said, you know. i guess everyone tries it, sooner of later.
i never tried it.
i know it was a bad idea to close the store.
listen to you.
i can not help it. at least when we were playing hockey outside, i could see if anyone wanted to go in.
nobody's there. it is four of the clock on a saturday. how many people ever come to the store at four on a saturday?
i can not fucking believe you!!
I am telling you, it was not my fault!
you knocked the fucking casket over, for chrissakes!
i was just leaning on it! it was an accident!
does anyone ever knock over a casket on purpose?
so the casket fell over! big deal!
her fucking body fell out!
so they will put her back in! it is not like it is going to matter if she breaks something!
just... go! go open the video store.
go open the video store.
yeah, you cock-smoking clerk.
how many times i gotta tell you not to deal outside the store.
I am not dealing.
let me borrow your car.
i do not want to talk to you.
fine. just lend me your car.
why should i loan you my car?
i want to rent a movie.
you want to rent a movie.
what is that for?
you work in a video store!
i work in a shitty video store. i want to go to a good video store so i can rent a good movie.
are you open?
pack of cigarettes.  cute cat. what is its name?
annoying customer.
can you imagine being halfway decent to the customers at least some of the time?
let me borrow your car.
may i be blunt with you?
if you must.
we are employees of quick stop convenience and rst video, respectively. as such, we have certain responsibilities which-though it may seem cruel and unusual-does include manning our posts until closing.
i see. so playing hockey and attending wakes-these practices are standard operating procedure.
there is a difference. those were obligations. obligations that could not have been met at any later date. now renting videos-that's just gratuitous, not to mention illogical, considering you work in a video store.
are you open?
yes.
you know what? i do not think i care for your rationale.
it is going to have to do for now, considering that it is my car that is up for request.  can i help you?
pack of cigarettes.
what is your point?
my point is that you are a clerk, paid to do a job. you can not just do anything you want while you are working.
"space alien revealed as head of time warner; reports stock increase."  they print any kind of shit in these papers.
they certainly do. two fifty-five.
so your argument is that title dictates behavior?
what?
the reasons you will not let me borrow your car is because i have a title and a job description, and I am supposed to follow it, right?
exactly.
i saw one, one time, that said the world was ending the next week. then in the next week's paper, they said we were miraculously saved at the zero hour by a koala-fish mutant bird. crazy shit.
so I am no more responsible for my own decisions while I am here at work than, say, the death squad soldiers in bosnia?
that is stretching it. you are not being asked to slay children or anything.
not yet.
I am going to break your fucking head! you fucking jerkoff!
sir! sir, I am sorry! he did not mean it! he was trying to get me.
well, he missed!
i know. I am sorry. let me refund your cigarette money, and we will call it even.
this is the last time i ever come here.  and if i ever see you again, I am going to break your fucking head open!
what the fuck did you do that for?
two reasons: one, i hate when the people can not shut up about the stupid tabloid headlines.
jesus!
and two, to make a point: title does not dictate behavior.
what?
if title dictated my behavior, as a clerk serving the public, i would not be allowed to spit a mouthful of water at that guy. but i did, so my point is that people dictate their own behavior. hence, even though I am a clerk in this video store, i choose to go rent videos at big choice.  agreed?
you are a danger to both the dead and the living.
i like to think I am a master of my own destiny.
please, get the hell out of here.
i know I am your hero.
sounds to me like somebody needs to hit the gym.
excuse me?
i heard you strain when you put the milk in the bag. that milk only weighs about seven pounds.
i did not strain. i sighed.
i do not think so. that was a grunt; a deep inhalation of oxygen to aid in the stretching of muscles. I am a trainer. i know what that sound signifies: you are out of shape.
i do not think so.
oh, i do. you made the same noise when you reached across the counter for my cash. your muscles are thin and sadly underutilized.
they are not.
yes, they are. you are out of shape.
what are you talking about? there is no fat on this body.
no fat, but no tone either. you do not get enough exercise.
are you open?
yes.
just the paper.
thirty-fire.
let me ask you a question: do you think this guy's out of shape?
i do not know. i can not really tell from here.
he is.
i am not.
how much can you bench?
i do not know.
I would say about sixty, seventy-tops.
i know i can bench more than that!
i think the lady called it.
my ex-boyfriend was about his height, but he was much bulkier. he could bench two-fifty, three hundred easy.
i do about three-fifty, four.
no way!
feel that.
that is tight. solid.
now feel his.  roll up your sleeve, chief.
oh for god's sake!
see? you are ashamed. you know you are out of shape. take my card.  i can help you tone that body up in no time. get you on an aerobics and free-weights program.
you open?
yes.  I am not out of shape.
excuse me, but have you been here all day?
what?
he is got those love handles.
i do not have love handles.
were you working here at about four o'clock?
I have been here since six of the clock this morning. why?
it is probably from being around all this food every day.
oh, i know. if i had to work here all day, I would be bloated and out of shape, too.
I am not out of shape!
can i have your name please?
dante hicks. why? what is this about?
you are dante hicks? oh my god! i did not even recognize you!
because he is out of shape.
do i know you?
you remember alyssa jones? she hung out with...
caitlin bree. yeah?
I am her sister.
you are alyssa's sister? heather?
yep. i remember you got caught in my parents' room with caitlin once.
did you say caitlin bree?
yeah.
pretty girl, about this girl's height- dark hair-gorgeous body?
yeah?
and your name is dante hicks? you went to high school with her? you played hockey?
how do you know that?
oh man! hey, you still going out with her?
no, she is getting married.
to you?
to an asian design major.
shit!  do not take this the wrong way, but i used to fuck her.
what?
while you two were dating in high school. we are talking four, five years ago, back when i drove a trans- am.
oh my god! you are rick derris?
yeah!
you know him?
caitlin used to talk about him all the time.
really?
oh yeah. you were the built older guy with the black trans and the big...
wait a second!  you used to sleep with caitlin bree? while i was dating her?
all the time. that girl was like a rabbit.
i... i do not believe this...
i still remember caitlin telling us about that time you two went to that motel-the one with the mirrors and the hot tub in the room.
the glades motel?
holy shit! she told you about that!  buddy of mine worked there. said he watched the whole thing. they used to film people at that hotel; nobody knew about it.
she said one time you set up a tent on the beach and you guys did it in the middle of this big rainstorm.
what? when? when did all this shit happen?
hey man, that was a long time ago. do not let it get to you.
I am surprised you never found out about it, dante. everybody in school knew-even in my class.
jesus christ, what next?
here you go.
what is this?
a fine, for five hundred dollars.
what?
what are you talking about?
according to the njac-the new jersey administrative code, section eighteen, five, slash twelve point five-a fine of no less than two hundred and fifty dollars is to be leveled against any person reported selling cigarettes to a minor.
i did not do that!
you said you were here all day?
yeah, but i did not sell cigarettes to any kids!
an angry mother called the state division of taxation and complained that the man working at quick stop convenience sold her five-year-old daughter cigarettes today at around four o'clock. division of taxation calls the state board of health, and they send me down here to issue a fine. you say you were working all day, hence the fine is yours.  it is doubled due to the incredibly young age of the child.
but i did not sell cigarettes to any kid!
to a five-year-old kid? what a scumbag!
that is sick, dante.
i did not sell cigarettes to any kids! i swear!
the due date is on the bottom. this summons cannot be contested in any court of law. failure to remit before the due date will result in a charge of criminal negligence, and a warrant will be issued for your arrest. have a nice day.
but i did not sell cigarettes to any kids! hey!
forget it. i do not want to deal with a guy that sells cigarettes to a five-year-old.  can i offer you a ride somewhere?
sure. how about the beach?
i like the way you think.
that is the price, my brother.
yo, i do not have that kind of cash.
for this kind of hash, you need that kind of cash.
how long you gonna be here?
till ten. then I am going to john k's party.
you are going to be at john k's party?
my man is deaf.  I am going to john k's party!  neh.
yo, do not sell all that. 'cause I am going to get the cash and buy it from you at john k's. you are going to bring it, right?
the only place i do not bring my drugs is church. and that am not till sunday morning.
yo. I will see you at that party.  I will see you there?
I will see you there.
when did you get back?
just now.
my god. i have not seen you since...
dante. you have got a customer.
i just saw alyssa's little sister outside. she was with rick derris.
let's not talk about that. how did you get home?
train. it took eight hours.
i can not believe you are here.
excuse me, do you have...
to the back, above the oil.  how long are you staying?
pack of cigarettes.  congratulations. i saw that announcement in today's paper.  she is marrying an asian design major.
so I am told.
you are just going to lock the store like that?
i want to talk to you about something, and i do not want to be disturbed.
you saw it?
very dramatic, i thought.
it is not what you think.
what, it is worse? you are pregnant with an asian design major's child?
I am not pregnant.
were you going to tell me or just send me an invitation?
i was going to tell you. but then we were getting along so well, i did not want to mess it up.
you could have broke it to me gently, you know; at least started by telling me you had a boyfriend. i told you i have a girlfriend.
i know, I am sorry. but when we started talking... it is like i forgot i had a boyfriend. and then he proposed last month...
and you said yes?
well... kind of, sort of?
is that what they teach you at that school of yours? kind of, sort of? everyone knows about this except me! do you know how humiliating that is?
i would have told you, and you would have stopped calling, like a baby.
how do you know that?
because i know you. you prefer drastic measures to rational ones.
so you are really getting married?
no.
no, you are not really getting married?
the story goes like this: he proposed, and i told him i had to think about it, and he insisted i wear the ring anyway. then my mother told the paper we were engaged.
how like her.
then my mother called me this morning and told me the announcement was in the paper. that is when i hopped the train to come back here, because i knew you would be a wreck.
thanks for the vote of confidence.
was i right?
wreck is a harsh term. disturbed is more like it. mildly disturbed even.
i love a macho faade. it is such a turn-on.  what smells like shoe polish?
and you came here to what? to comfort me?
the last thing i needed was for you to think i was hiding something from you.
but you were.
no, i wasn't. not really. i told you would I would been seeing other people.
yeah, but not seriously. christ, you are ready to walk down the aisle- I would say that constitutes something more than just seeing somebody.
I am giving him his ring back.
what?
i do not want to marry him. i do not want to get married now. I am on the verge of graduation. i want to go to grad school after this. and then i want to start a career. i do not want to be a wife first, and then have to worry about when I am going to fit in all of the other stuff.  I have come way too far and studied too hard to let my education go to waste as a housewife. and i know that is what I would become. sang's already signed with a major firm, and he is going to be pulling a huge salary, which would give me no reason to work, and he is so traditional anyway...
sang? his name is a past tense?
stop it. he is a nice guy.
if he is so nice, why are not you going to marry him?
i just told you.
there is more, is not there?
why, mr. hicks-whatever do you mean?
tell me i do not have something to do with it.
you do not have anything to do with it.
you lie.
look how full of yourself you are.
i just believe in giving credit where credit is due. and i believe that I am the impetus behind your failure to wed.
if I am so nuts about you, then why am i having sex with an asian design major?
jesus, you are caustic.
i had to bring you down from that cloud you were floating on. when i say i do not want to get married, i mean just that. i do not want to marry anybody. not for years.
so who is asking? i do not want to marry you.
good. stay in that frame of mind.
but can we date?
I am sure sang and-veronica?-would like that.
we could introduce them. they might hit it off.
you are serious. you want to date again.
i would like to be your boyfriend, yes.
it is just the shock of seeing me after three years. believe me, you will get over it.
give me a bit more credit. i think it is time we got back together, you know. I am more mature, you are more mature, you are finishing college, I am already in the job market...
you work in a market, all right.
cute. tell me you would not want to go out again. after all the talking we have been doing.
the key word here is talk, dante. i think the idea, the conception of us dating is more idyllic than what actually happens when we date.
so... what? so we should just make pretend over the phone that we are dating?
i do not know. maybe we should just see what happens.
let me take you out tonight.
you mean, on a date?
yes. a real date. dinner and a movie.
the dante hicks dinner and a movie date. i think I have been on that one before.
you have a better suggestion?
how about the caitlin bree walk on the boardwalk, then get naked somewhere kind of private date?
i hear that is a rather popular date.
jerk. here i am, throwing myself at you, succumbing to your wily charms, and you call me a slut, in so many words.
what about sing?
sang.
sang.
he is not invited.
he is your fianc.
i offer you my body and you offer me semantics? he is just a boyfriend, dante, and in case you have not gotten the drift of why i came all the way here from ohio, I am about to become single again.  and yes-let me placate your ego-you are the inspiration for this bold and momentous decision, for which I will probably be ostracized at both school and home. you ask me who i choose, i choose you.
so what are you saying?
you are such an asshole.
I am just kidding.
i can already tell this is not going to work.
I will ask randal to close up for me when he gets back.
where did he go?  I would have thought he would be at your side, like an obedient lapdog.
he went to rent a movie, but he has not gotten back yet. ah, screw it; I will just lock the store up and leave him a note.
you are too responsible. but no. i have to go home first. they do not even know i left school. and i should break the disengagement news to my mother, which is going to cause quite a row, considering she loves sang.
who doesn't?
well, me i guess.  so, i shall take my leave of you, but i will return in a little while, at which time-yes-i would love to go for dinner and a movie with you.
what happened to the walk and the nakedness?
I am easy, but I am not that easy.  see you later, handsome.
get to work.
what did you rent?  best of both worlds?
hermaphroditic porn. starlets with both organs. you should see the box: beautiful women with dicks that put mine to shame.
and this is what you rented?
i like to expand my horizons.
i got fined for selling cigarettes to a minor.
no way!
five hundred dollars.
you are bullshitting.
i did not think they even enforced this.
living proof.
i thought you never sold cigarettes to kids.
i don't; you did.
really?
little girl. maybe five years old?
holy shit. that girl?
as opposed to the hundreds of other children you let buy cigarettes whenever you work here.
then how come you got the fine?
because I am here.
you are lying.
i swear. i could not make this kind of hell up.
then why are not you like screaming at me right now?
because I am happy.
you are happy?
I am happy.
you are happy to get a fine?
no. I am happy because caitlin came to see me.
now i know you are lying.
I am not. she just left.
what did she say?
she is not going to marry that guy. she went home to tell her mother.
you are kidding.
I am not.
wow. you have had quite an evening.
she went home, she is getting ready, and we are going out.
i feel so ineffectual. is there anything i can do for you?
watch the store while i go home and change.
what happened to title dictates behavior?
this is my way of spitting water at life.
hey, what about veronica?
no! do not bring it up. i do not want to think about that now. let me enjoy this hour of bliss. I will think about all of that later. in the meantime, nobody mentions the v word.
you are a snake.
in my absence, try not to sell cigarettes to any newborns.
you want me to bring the vcr over here so we can watch this?
i might be leaving early to go out with caitlin, in which case you will have to close the store tonight.
all right, but you are missing out. chicks with dicks.
I will read the book.
cute cat. what is his name.
peptic ulcer.
randal graves-scourge of the video renter.
ladies and gentleman, mrs. asian design major herself: caitlin bree!
you saw that article? god, is not it awful? my mother sent that in.
i take it she likes the guy.
you would think she was marrying him. what are you watching?
children's programming. what did your mom say when you told her you were not engaged anymore?
she said not to come home until graduation.
wow, you got thrown out? for dante?
what can i say? he does weird things to me.
can i watch?
you can hold me down.
can i join in?
you might be let down. I am not a hermaphrodite.
few are. so what makes you think you can maintain a relationship with dante this time around?
a woman's intuition. something in me says it is time to give the old boy a serious try.
wow. hey, i was just about to order some dinner. you eat chinese, right?
dick.
exactly.
so where is he?
he went home to change for the big date.
god, is not he great?
no, this is great.
can i use the bathroom?
there is no light back there.
why are not there any lights?
well, there are, but for some reason they stop working at five-fourteen every night.
you are kidding.
nobody can figure it out. and the boss does not want to pay the electrician to fix it, because the electrician owes money to the video store.
such a sordid state of affair.
and I am caught in the middle-torn between my loyalty for the boss, and my desire to piss with the light on.
I will try to manage.
hey caitlin...  break his heart again this time, and I will kill you. nothing personal.
you are very protective of him, randal. you always have been.
territoriality. he was mine first.
awww. that was so cute.
who eats cock?
bunch of savages in this town.  hey, caitlin's in the back. you might want to see if she is okay; she is been back there a long time.
there is no lights back there.
i told her that. she said she did not need any. why do not you join her, man. make a little bathroom bam-bam.
i love your sexy talk. it is so... kindergarten: poo-poo; wee-wee.
fuck you.
how did you get here so fast?
i left like an hour ago.
do you always talk weird after you violate women?
maybe the asian design major slipped her some opium?
could be.
promise me it will always be like that.
like what?
when you just lie perfectly still and let me do everything.
um... okay.
am i missing something here?
i went back there, and dante was already waiting for me.
he was?
it was so cool. he did not say a word. he was just... ready, you know?  and we did not kiss or talk or anything. he just sat there and let me do all the work.
you dog! i did not see you go back there.
and the fact that there were not any lights made it so...  god! that was so great!
it was not me.
yeah, right. who was it: randal?
was it you?
i was here the whole time.
you two better quit it.
I am serious.
we did not just have sex in the bathroom?
no.
stop this. this is not funny.
I am not kidding. i just got back from outside.
this is not fucking funny, dante!
I am not fooling around!  who went back there?
nobody! i swear!
i feel nauseous.
are you sure somebody was back there?
i did not just fuck myself! jesus, I am going to be sick!
you just fucked a total stranger?
shut the fuck up!
i can not believe this! i feel faint...
call the police.
why?
no, don't!
there is a strange man in our bathroom, and he just raped caitlin!
oh god...
she said she did all the work.
would you shut the fuck up?  who the fuck is in the bathroom?
i do not know. he just came in and asked to use the bathroom.
what time was this?
um... i do not know.  what time did hockey end?
around three or something.
what time did we go to the funeral?
i think four.
wait a second? who was working here today?
just me.
i thought you just said you played hockey and went to a funeral.
we did.
then who operated the store?
nobody. it was closed.
with this guy locked in?
everything happened at once. i guess i forgot he was back there.
was he alive when... caitlin...
no. i place the time of death at about three-twenty.
well he asked me for it!
i can not say for certain until we get him back to the lab, but my guess is he was masturbating, his heart seized and he died. that is when the girl found him.  something smells like shoe polish.
what about caitlin?
shock trauma. she is going to need years of therapy after this. my question is, how did she come to have sex with the dead man?
she thought it was me.
what? what is with you? you have not said anything for like twenty minutes. what the hell is your problem?
this life.
this life?
why do i have this life?
have some chips; you will feel better.
I am stuck in this pit, earning less than slave wages, working on my day off, dealing with every backward fuck on the planet, the goddamn steel shutters are locked all day, i smell like shoe polish, I have got an ex- girlfriend who is catatonic after fucking a dead guy, and my present girlfriend has sucked thirty-six dicks.
thirty-seven.
my life is in the shitter right about now, so if you do not mind, I would like to stew a bit.
you open?
yeah.
that is all bullshit. you know what the real problem here is?
i was born.
you should shit or get off the pot.
i should shit or get off the pot.
yeah, you should shit or get off the pot.
what are you talking about?
I am talking about this thing you have... this inability to improve your situation in life.
fuck you.
it is true. you will sit there and blame life for dealing a cruddy hand, never once accepting the responsibility for the way your situation is.
what responsibility?
all right, if you hate this job and the people, and the fact that you have to come in on your day off, then quit.
as if it is that easy.
it is. you just up and quit. there are other jobs, and they pay better money. you are bound to be qualified for at least one of them. so what is stopping you?
leave me alone.
you are comfortable. this is a life of convenience for you, and any attempt to change it would shatter the pathetic microcosm you have fashioned for yourself.
oh, like your life's any better?
I am satisfied with my situation for now. you do not hear me bitching. you, on the other hand, have been bitching all day.
thank you. why do not you go back to the video store?
it is the same thing with veronica.
leave her out of this.
you date veronica because she is low maintenance and because it is convenient. meanwhile, all you ever do is talk about caitlin. you carry a torch for a girl you dated in high school-in high school for god's sake! you are twenty-two!
leave me alone.
if you want caitlin, then face veronica, tell her, and be with caitlin. if you want veronica, be with veronica. but do not pine for one and fuck the other. man, if you were not such a fucking coward...
...if i was not such a fucking coward.  it must be so great to be able to simplify everything the way you do.
am i right or what?
you are wrong. things happened today, okay? things that probably ruined my chances with caitlin.
what? the dead guy?  she will get over fucking the dead guy. shit, my mom's been fucking a dead guy for thirty years; i call him dad.
caitlin and i can not be together. it is impossible.
melodrama coming from you seems about as natural as an oral bowel movement.
what do you want me to say? yes, i suppose some of the things you are saying may be true. but that is the way things are; it is not going to change.
make them change.
i can't, all right! jesus, would you leave me alone? i can not make changes like that in my life. if i could, i would-but i do not have the ability to risk comfortable situations on the big money and the fabulous prizes.
who are you kidding? you can so.
jesus h. christ, i can't!
so you will continue being miserable all the time, just because you do not have the guts to face change?
my mother told me once that when i as three, my potty lid was closed, and instead of lifting it, i chose to shit my pants.
lovely story.
point is-i'm not the kind of person that disrupts things in order to shit comfortably.
noinch, noinch, noinch-smoking weed, smoking weed! doing coke!  drinking beers!  a pack of wraps, my good man. it is time to kick back, drink some beers, and smoke some weed!
done poisoning the youth for the day?
hell yes, whatever that means. now I am going to head over to atlantic, drink some beers, get ripped, and- please god-get laid.  e-z wider, one-and-a-halfs.
one seventy-nine.
pay the good man.  do not you close soon?
a half hour.
we get off about the same time every night. we should hang out.  you get high?
i should start.
wanna come to this party tonight? there is going to be some pussy there, man!
with you? i do not think so.
listen to you. oh shit. "oh, i do not hang out with drug dealers."
nothing personal.
i work, just like you. you are more of a crook than i am, dude.
how do you figure... hey! you can not roll a joint in here!
relax brother. what i mean is that you sell the stuff in this store at the highest prices around. a dollar seventy-nine for wraps-what's that shit?
it is not my store.
and these are not my drugs-i just sell them.
the difference is you exploit a weakness.
what is that mean?
you sell to people that can not stay away from an addiction.
all right. how much is pepsi here?
a dollar sixty-nine, plus tax.
at food city it is ninety-nine cents, plus tax.
so.
so why do you sell it for so much more? I will tell you why-because people come here and they are like "a dollar eighty for soda? i should get it at food city. but i do not feel like driving there. I will just buy it here so i do not have to drive up there." that is exploiting a weakness, too, is not it?
i can not believe you just rolled a joint in here.
hey, man, what happened with that old guy?
he died in the bathroom.
that is fucked up. yo, i heard he was jerkin' off.
i do not know. i was not watching.
probably saw that caitlin chick. i know i felt like beatin' it when i saw her.  come here, bitch! you like this? is this what you want? hunhh?
knock it off. that used to be my girlfriend.
you used to go out with her?
we were going to start again, i think.
do not you already have a girlfriend?
veronica.
is she that girl who is down here all the time? she came here today carrying a plate of food.
lasagne.
and what-you were gonna dump her to date that caitlin chick?
maybe.
i do not know dude. that caitlin chick's nice. but i see that veronica girl doing shit for you all the time. she brings you food, she rubs your back... did not i see her change your tire one day?
i jacked the car up. all she did was loosen the nuts and put the tire on.
damn. she sure goes out of her way.
she is my girlfriend.
I have had girlfriends, but all they wanted from me was weed and shit.  shit, my grandma used to say, "which is better: a good plate with nothing on it..." no, wait. i fucked up. she said "what's a good-looking plate with nothing on it?"
meaning?
i do not know. she was senile and shit. used to piss herself all the time. c'mon silent bob.
and... he told you all of this?
pretty much. all except the latent homosexuality part-that's just my theory.
i... i do not know what to say.
do not hold it against him. he just never got caitlin out of his system. it is not your fault. it is dante.  i do not know thing one about chicks. do you want to cry or something? i can leave.
I am not sad.
you are not?
no, I am more furious. I am pissed off. i feel like he is been killing time while he tries to grow the balls to tell me how he really feels, and then he can not even do it!  he has his friend do it for him!
he did not ask me to...
after all that I have done for that fuck! and he wants to be with that slut? fine! he can have his slut!
um, do you think you can give me a lift home tonight?
I am going to have a word with that asshole.
what am i worried about?  he will probably be glad i started the ball rolling. all he ever did was complain about her anyway. I am just looking out for his best interests.  i mean, that is what a friend does, am i right? i did him a favor.
oooh! navy seals!
what the fuck did you do that for?
if you did not want to go out with me anymore, why did not you just say it? instead, you pussyfoot around and see that slut behind my back!
what are you talking about?
you have been talking to her on the phone for weeks!
it was only a few times...
and then you pull that shit this morning, freaking out because I have gone down on a couple guys!
a couple...?
I am not the one trying to patch things up with my ex, sneaking around behind your back! and if you think that thirty-seven dicks are a lot, then just wait, mister: I am going to put the hookers in times square to shame with all the guys i go down on now!
would you let me explain...
explain what? how you were waiting until the time was right, and then you were going to dump me for her?
veronica... i... it is not like that anymore... i mean, it was never really like that...
you are damn right it is not like that! because i will not let it be like that! you want your slut? fine!  the slut is yours!
i do not want caitlin...
you do not know what you want, but I am not going to sit here anymore holding your hand until you figure it out! I have encouraged you to get out of this fucking dump and go back to school, to take charge of your life and find direction. i even transferred so maybe you would be more inclined to go back to college if i was with you. everyone said it was a stupid move, but i did not care because i loved you and wanted to see you pull yourself out of this senseless funk you have been in since that whore dumped you, oh so many years ago. and now you want to go back to her so she can fuck you over some more?
i do not want to go back with her...
of course not; not now! you are caught, and now you are trying to snake out of doing what you wanted to do. well, i will not let you. i want you to follow through on this, just so you can find out what a fucking idiot you are. and when she dumps you again- and she will, dante, i promise you that-when she dumps you again, i want to laugh at you, right in your face, just so you realize that that was what you gave up our relationship for!  I am just glad randal had the balls to tell me, since you couldn't.
randal...?
and having him tell me... that was just the weakest move ever. you are spineless.
veronica, i love you...
fuck you.
how is your eye?
the swelling's not so bad. but the fds stings.  how is your neck?
it is hard to swallow.
you did not have to choke me.
why the fuck did you tell veronica that i was going to dump her for caitlin?
i thought i was doing you a favor.
thanks.
you were saying how you could not initiate change yourself, so i figured I would help you out.
jesus.
you still did not have to choke me.
oh please! I am surprised i did not kill you.
why do you say that?
why do i say that?  randal... forget it.
no, really. what did i do that was so wrong?
what do not you do?  randal, sometimes it seems like the only reason you come to work is to make my life miserable.
how do you figure?
what time did you get to work today?
like ten after.
you were over half an hour late. then all you do is come over here.
to talk to you.
which means the video store is ostensibly closed.
it is not like I am miles away.
unless you are out renting videos at other video stores.
hermaphrodites! i rented it so we could watch it together!
you get my slapped with a fine, you fight with the customers and i have to patch everything up. you get us chased out of a funeral by violating a corpse. to top it all off, you ruin my relationship. what is your encore? do you anally rape my mother while pouring sugar in my gas tank?  you know what the real tragedy is? I am not even supposed to be here today!
fuck you. fuck you, pal. listen to you trying to pass the buck again. I am the source of all your misery. who closed the store to play hockey? who closed the store to attend a wake? who tried to win back an ex- girlfriend without even discussing how he felt with his present one? you wanna blame somebody, blame yourself.  "i'm not even supposed to be here today."  you sound like an asshole. whose choice was it to be here today? nobody twisted your arm. you are here today of your own violation, my friend. but you would like to believe that the weight of the world rests on your shoulders-that the store would crumble if dante was not here. well, i got news for you, jerk: this store would survive without you. without me either. all you do is overcompensate for having what is basically a monkey's job: you push fucking buttons. any moron can waltz in here and do our jobs, but you are obsessed with making it seem so much more fucking important, so much more epic than it really is. you work in a convenience store, dante. and badly, i might add. and i work in a shitty video store.  badly, as well.  you know, that guy jay's got it right- he has no delusions about what he does. us?  we like to make ourselves seem so much better than the people that come in here, just looking to pick up a paper or-god forbid- cigarettes. we look down on them, as it we are so advanced.  well, if we are so fucking advanced, then what are we doing working here?
i threw out the stuff that got broken. the floor looks clean.
you need a ride?
got one. just pulled up.
do you work tomorrow?
same time. what about you?
I am calling out. going to hit the hospital-see how caitlin is. then try to see veronica.
you wanna grab something to eat tomorrow night... after i get out of here?
I will call you. let you know.
all right. good luck with veronica. if you want, i can talk to her, you know, and explain...
no thanks. I will take care of it. we have got a lot of shit to talk about.
helluva day.
to say the least.
do you need a hug or something? 'cause i would have no hang-ups about hugging you... you know, you being a guy and all. just do not knead my ass when you do it.
get the fuck outta here already.
I am gone. I will talk to you tomorrow.
