my third grade teacher at the convent shot better than that.
yeah, but she had divine guidance.
answer it.
I am sure she thinks it is.  are not you at least interested in which one it is?
you are good enough you will never have to kill anyone.  i joined the cops to save lives, not waste them.
you know, m.j., when i watch you shoot, i realize I have got a little problem with my stance... could you just move over here and critique my legs?
i just got here myself, susan.
...confirm this third murder adds up to a pattern?  do we have a serial killer on the loose in the city?
i just got here.  talk to you later...
i was.
I am over here?  what is your name, officer?
michael johnson.
you touch anything, mike?  pick up anything?  use the doorknob?  i do not want to find your prints on anything later and you tell me you forgot to tell me.
no.  i didn't.
whatever it is, I am going to find out and sooner is a hell of lot better than later.
well, there is something missing in there.  there was something around her neck when i came in there, but it is gone now.
who came in after you?
lieutenant  quinn.
you messed with the scene.
shut up.
... third bay area woman has been strangled, but the police continue to deny that this is the work of one killer.  lt. thomas quinn declares that the murders will be treated as unrelated crimes, unless new evidence...
you messed with the evidence.
i tagged the goddamned stocking. it am not lost.  we are sequestering that evidence.  that is the trap some son of a bitch is going to fall into...
am i in charge of this thing?  or not.
i said you were...
you did not say serial killer and i did not say serial killer.
right.
this is the anniversary of the summer of love and your city fathers have declared a festival of love.  the mayor and chamber of commerce do not want tv announcing killers on the loose.
right.
we are going to have a bunch of clapped out old hippies blissing on the grateful dead!  sleeping in the park, smoking dope and sticking tulips up their ass.
good.
what am i wasting my time with this shit for?
because it is your job, that is all.
not what i meant; why me?
maybe it is something you did in this life, nikko...
get mercer to run the medical, dental, legal bills, laundry and dry cleaning receipts, extermin- ators, mailmen, grocery and drugstore deliveries, handymen, plumbers...
it is mostly done, they got nobody in common, the three of them... no mutual friends -- the landlady says nobody was ever there, she never saw her with anybody.
who is this?
inspector halloran, homicide.  I am in charge here.
no, ma'am.  this is no joke.  and neither is tying up telephone lines to police with crank calls while people in trouble are trying to get through for help.
you are calling me a crank?
do you have any evidence to report, ma'am?  do you know any of the victims...
i think this is number three...
that is an opinion, not evidence...
where were you?  do not tell me. it is just under seventy, right?  the sun is strong but the air is dry and fresh...
would you please get your hands off my face, tallulah?  what happened to the newspaper?
i got it myself... i could not wait.
well!  are not we the daring one? what is morbid and ghastly enough in the news to make doctor helen set foot outside her door?  the antenna is gone off her car again.  i had no music, all the way to the market.  let me find a garage for it?
I have told you:  i can not afford to garage it.
are you kidding?  you buy enough gourmet junk every week... most of which rots... to garage a fleet of stretch limos.
i had the dream again.  and i got another call.  this time he spoke.  he said "you and me, you and me."
a little heavy breathing is what most of us yearn for.  forget it.
he whispered, but it was him!  i know it was him!
he can not phone you unless the warden gets an okay from you.  did you give him an approval?
andy?  when a three-year-old says there is a monster under the bed, you do not say 'forget it'.  you look under the bad.  I am three years old.  call the prison.
oh god.  I am really crazy.
when was the last time you washed your hair?
monsieur andy, disapproves of my coiffure?
monsieur andy can smell your coiffure.  and guess what else?
cellulite.  what do you say i blindfold you and take you to the gym.  aerobics with housewives...
andy?
you parked right behind him.  the one i noticed earlier.  i did not say anything, i thought he would leave. just take a look.
oh my god!  help!  he is reading a newspaper!
but earlier, he was staring up here.  please, andy.
okay.  you win.  'dirty harry' coming up.
excuse me, but would you mind explaining why you are watching the lady upstairs?
none of your fucking business.
i hate this...
only kidding!
investigators halloran and goetz.  i apologize for goetz, he is a firehouse dog.
I am okay.  i really kind of enjoyed it.
ring the gong, he goes.  poor impulse control.
is he out?
who?
if he is not out, why are they here?
because of your phone calls.
what calls?  i have not made any calls.
are you staying long?  shall i shut the door?  make your coffee?  make the beds?
you talked to me.  do you remember?
you were the one that talked about moonbikes and called me a crank? oh god, i am!  make them some coffee.  halloran, is it?  investigator goetz?  i had a crank call myself-- he said...  i thought it might be daryll lee cullum.  i thought he might be out of prison.
daryll lee cullum?  i do not think so.  if he is escaped we would have the national guard, cops'd be crawling through sewers.  you would have a guard on your front door.
i want to tell you it is a great honor to meet you and talk to you.
you do not admire me.  no police admire me.  i got one of you killed.  why do not you say right out what you are here for?
you called us, doctor hudson.
yes, i did.  poor impulse control. the accounts of the firs two murders made it so clear they were the work of the same man, but you kept announcing they were unrelated.  you will never catch him that way.
sugar and cream for goetz; i take mine black.  you are absolutely correct.  the politicians do not want panic headlines spoiling the festival of love.
well, let's thank god you and inspector goetz are on the case, then.
would you want to work with us on this?
oh, my god, no!  I am a clinical hysteric, with panic syndrome, and anxiety neurosis, agoraphobic, I am afraid of everything, real and imaginary.  i never leave this apartment now.  nobody ever comes here.  i just wanted to get your attention.  i write and i used to lecture on these crimes, but... I am not competent.
i think you are.  i really admire everything you have done; it would be an honor to work with you, and we need all the help we can get, especially yours.
inspector halloran, that is so much bullshit, you do not like or admire me, but the beautiful part is i do not give a fuck.  that is the upside of having a breakdown.
well, it is a hell of an apartment you got here.  I am living one step away from the projects, myself, but i get to go to work every day, wading in blood and guts.  i guess the books you wrote about these sons of bitches paid off pretty good.
will you go.  andy, make them go.
you can not go out lecturing?  tough shit.  women are dying.  where can i lay this stuff out?
i do not want this.  what are they?
you called us, doctor, if you do not want to look at them here, how about downtown.  I will drive you down...
now look what you did.
what did i do?
you threatened to drive her downtown.  she has agoraphobia.
fear of what...
open space.  she has not been out of this apartment in three years.  i did not used to think it was real...
we will get the paramedics...
oh, god, uniforms, more stress. let her sleep.  it is a self-limiting: she hyperventilates till she passes out, then her breathing goes back to normal, and she wakes up singing like a lark.  we know, do not we, princess?  give her a couple of hours.  i know about this.
tell her we are sorry we bothered her.
hey, no.  leave those here.  if you really want her help.  i mean if you really do, leave them.  let her see them.  I will see they are safe...
snotty neurotic bitch...
classy madonna.
sure.  she likes you, rube.  she likes the way you move.  she sure as hell is not in love with me.
you came in there with this attitude...
order chinese for us and meet me the library?  anything but beef.
yes.  without question.
without question?  he only scored 40 percent, four out of ten criteria?  could not another expert say he flunked the sexual sadist test?  what curve are you marking on, doctor?
the test criteria are only part of what we look at in evaluating subjects.
only part.  what else?  what did you think of his claim that he tied this girl to the tree and set fire to her because joan of arc told him to do it.
he was lying.
'lying.  he was lying.'  i asked you what you thought, not what he did.
i thought he was lying.
you said, first, he was lying.  how do you know that, doctor?
because people who are suffering from aural hallucinations hear voices in both ears.  daryll lee told me that joan of arc always appeared beside him on his left side and spoke softly in his left ear.
he took pains to hide his actions because he knew they were morally wrong.  he was not acting on mad impulse.  he was sane and acting out a pattern he carefully followed every time.
what pattern was that?
the same as the first time...
the first two murders.
what first two murders.  we do not know about them here, do we?
he told me he had done two others just like it.
when was that?
when he was seventeen.
and you believed him when he told you he had done that.
yes.  i believed him.
there was no sperm.
the same as the firs two. definitely a serial.
what are you looking at that for? helen hudson.  work the clues.
what clues?  I am going to work helen hudson.
would you step outside, sergeant?
I am telling you.  do not you ever address me publicly in that tone. you will work what and who i tell you to work.
anybody in this department ever worked a serial killer case?  she is the expert.  i need help.
how about i put nikko on it?
that is always your privilege, sir.
sergeant?
yessir.
you ever reflect how this big explosion in dead women coincides with the flowering of women's lib?
yessir.  i have reflected on that, sir.  which explains my gushing deference to you, sir.
oh, god.  i must have looked horrible.
no, dear.  you are at your best with a bag in front of your face.
i want to die.
i wouldn't.  he will be back.  if you want him.  the cute brutal type with handcuffs.  very sexy.
what?  what did i do?
reminded me that i used to be attractive.  that men used to want me...
you slut!  no sexy young cop for you unless you shampoo your hair.
when are you going to call them?
about what?
i can't, andy.
then, why do not you just die.  I am going.  they will find your body years later, the old recluse lady, she ate cat food, ten years of the new york times, unread, piled on top of the unread mail, the tv still on.  make up your mind.  live or die.  I will get coffee.
working late.  you are a damn fool.
oh, i know.
it is none of my business anymore...
you got that right, nikko, it is none of your business.
you are shitting ion your career.  you outrank hi...
well, you outranked me, nikko.
yeah.  and you used that. used me
do not put yourself down like that. i never used you.  i worked my way up like a marine grunt!
yeah, you did that too.  you earned what you got; do not shit on it, that is all I am saying.
god, you are cute when you are mad.
what is wrong with him?
he is just mad he let me keep the espresso machine.  we heard from doctor hudson?
nada.  lemme make the call.
honest to god, ruben!
i like women like that!
tell it to your shrink.
is it an ongoing case?
for months... last october.
it was a lover or a husband. someone close.  somebody who knew her and cared about her.
how do you know that?
he felt remorse.  he covered her.
the bodies have been carefully arranged... different positions, but somehow the same.  the positions are brutal... yet quite... artful.  it is like... a signature.  he is proud of his accomplishments.  there are early picassos and late picassos, but you always recognize the hand.  he wants us to recognize his hand. I have seen this hand before... what are you hiding?
nothing.
where are the stockings he strangled them with?
how did you know they were stockings?
i sent andy out on murder missions. for god's sake -- it is the boston strangler, alber desalvo.  he used their own stockings to strangle them.  tied in a bow-knot.
somebody is imitating his m.o. look for a plumber or carpenter or handyman; that is how desalvo got in the door and caught them off guard.
the boston strangler, when was that...?
in the sixties.  he is dead -- stabbed to death in prison.
why imitate a dead serial killer?
if you knew why, you might know where to look for him. i do not envy you this; he is not done -- he is going to do them faster and faster to keep the adrenaline rush.  now, I have done what you asked me.
work with me.
it is good medicine.
a little homeopathic cure for the willies.
none of you know anything about it. now go.  and andy, if you persist in playing doctor, leave, with them.
I am the only friend you have got, darling, and i do not intend to stop doing what i think is good for us.
get out!  all of you!
you said you do not give a fuck and that is the beauty of a breakdown? this does not look like not giving a fuck, you know that?
let's get out of here...
do not swear at me because we got problems.  I am just giving you the news.  i went to a catholic school; I will tell you what they teach.  on the knuckles they teach.
who have i got to beat up except the messenger?  does this give us anything to go on?
I am checking out anybody who lives like desalvo.  records of arrests for rape, especially by a man wearing green.  checking out psychiatric hospitals for his personality profile.  cross check- ing names from arrests for sexual offenses, public fondling.  if they have got a german wife.  we can keep cops working on this kind of junk for years, and this guy's going to hit again, soon.
i know.  get out here.
so.  do we tell the media and hope for somebody to come forward with information?
or for some new nutcase to copycat the copycat.
how do you know that?
look at the bottom of the screen. you see the icon with the arrow pointing left?  click on that... twice.
that computer's wired into internet.
he is hacked into her internet address.  he is a hacker.
he can get into my computer any time he likes!  this is exactly the kind of thing i did not want to have happen.
can you make a copy we can show on our computers?
it is too big a file to copy to a disk.
you got a tape backup, yeah, here lemme copy it on tape...
why would he send this to helen hudson...
it is a game they like to play. berkowitz -- "son of sam" -- hung around the crime scene, talking to the cops.  this one's probably watching you, laughing at you.
let me get a little action started here.
I am going to put a guard on your door.
one officer already got killed trying to protect me.  please, just take it all away.  leave me alone.
he won't.
it is gone.  the file's not here.  what did you do?
i just started it copying to tape, but the tape never ran.  it just did that...
he is brilliant.  this one is brilliant.
we will show that to...
show what?  it is gone.  he wrote a self destruct virus into the code, so it would only play until we try to copy it.  then it erased itself. gone...  do you remember what you saw?
oh, maaaaan?!
what?  i talk like a cop, this is the way i talk.  i can not believe this guy.  saks.  he is a deputy assistant director of the f.b.i. "let me help you!"
we could use a little help.
with the f.b.i. there is no such thing as a little help.  they bury you with help.  explain to me about this virus, no do not tell me about the virus.  thing is, you saw it, the pictures.
she just got to sleep.  do you have to tell her about it now?
tell her about what?
gaahhd!  what a cop!  you busted me!  the new one, in the marina.  she has a police radio scanner. it is always on.  she turns it off, and then she has to turn it on again.  she is obsessed.  she can not not listen to it, but she can not listen to it, so she makes me listen to it.
i am not going to look at any more pictures.  they are like a disease. they get into my head.  i can not get them out.
i do not look at pictures.  i look at the real thing.  i do not feel infected.
maybe that is why you can not catch him.  i know what she looks like -- the red-headed woman in my computer.
i just came from her... here's what you have not seen.
she probably let him in the door without a thought.  where are their mothers?!  where are the mothers that are supposed to teach them to be wary and to tough and not afraid to fight?
look at the sign.  'hell'?  in the festival of love?  you make any sense in that?
it is anybody connected to author- ity.  they write, they even knock on your door.  they are fans.  it thrills them to flirt with getting caught.
nobody knows you have anything to do with this case; nothing has been on tv or the news... why would he want to get in your computer?
because I am his damned pin-up girl! his, all of them!  they know me. they are in prisons with libraries, they collect clippings, I am their worthy opponent.  you keep my name out of this.
absolutely.
my promise.
the moon is up, my night to howl. will you be okay?
oh, god, i forget.  yes.  yes.  you go.  poor thing, you ought to get out.
look out for her.  she is tougher than you think.
i know 'halloran.'  what is the rest of it?
maryjane.  we call her m.j.
maryjane.  you think that logic and police procedure, order and science and method will hold back the horrors of a world gone mad and the sickness of the night.  i did once. but you know how he will get caught? he will have an accident, or some cop will get lucky.  you can not catch him by being intelligent and working hard.  or the worst:  there are dozens of women slaughtered in the most horrible way, month after month.  the news stories grow more grotesque and bizarre and in the city people lock their doors and windows, and hurry home before dark.  and then, one day, there are no more.  what happened?  did he just stop?  get tired and disgusted and decide not to kill any more? did he kill himself?  did he die in an auto accident?  or a fight.  or get sick and die?  it is like the murderer walked off the edge of the earth.  and you never know.  but you keep asking yourself -- when you read about a new murder -- is he back?
that is amazing.  a whole new book, thought up in a minute.  very good.  all i know how t do is get up, take a shower, and go to work. hope, if he does another I will nail the son of bitch, and they will spell my name right in the newspaper. where is andy going?
he is going home.  he slept over because i was a little anxious...
i want a guard on you.  I am worried about leaving you alone.
we are through for the night, are not we?  you go on.  get some sleep. I will stay until we can get a man out here and maybe catch a cab home.
that would be much appreciated. thanks.
you and maryjane are not lovers.
not yet.
are you always so bold?
no.  I am shy and I am selective.
the problem for me is... you are in the witness category.  know what i mean?
well.  another time, then.  I will be all right.  he is not going to attack me; what i' m rally afraid of is all in my own head, ruben.
tell me what to do!
I am falling!  I am going to fall!
do not let go... i can not breathe... I will die!
shhh.  it is okay.  just breathe. I will fix it...
the lock...
I will get a locksmith.
will you stay?  please?  I am afraid to sleep... i do not want...him...in my head...
put in the kevin costner.
why do not we save it for later? it is almost time for letterman.
you know i do not like to watch talk shows by myself.  where are you?
see, now you have annoyed her.  you know she does not like you to touch me.  does she, widdle wee fing!  wuhve you so much!  did you feed her?
yes, i fed her.  if she says she is hungry, she is lying to you.  again.
she does not lie!  you sure you fed her?
she lies all the time.  why would i say i fed her if i didn't?
that is what i do not know.  why would you lie?  that is the problem... i can not understand why anyone would lie.
is niccoletti assigned here?
quinn decided we should form a task force -- they are all one case, now. he wants all the senior detectives on it...  she was not killed here.
she did not fight back, no hair or skin under her fingernails.  I am not seeing any bruises or contusions...
what about her arms?
needle marks, fresh, here.  look at this...
she is blue as hell.  no marks on her neck.  asphyxiated?  not the same -- no ligature marks.  outdoors...
look at her legs.
spread out like she was sexually assaulted here.
if this is just the dump site, where did he do the job?  where did he pick her up?
doped up kids all over town.  park was full of them last night.  very easy pickin'.  goetz's type.
ruben, my god, i ought to put you on report.
you are right.  i can not stand that bastard.  sorry.  this is something new.  not the same guy, that is for sure.
yeah, everything's different.
get the pictures, and casts of footprints.
look at him, grandstanding...
detective niccoletti?
what is this about the boston strangler, m.j.?
inspector, will you confirm somebody is copying the boston strangler?  this is the fourth, is that correct?
we are going to review all the evidence carefully before making any statement...
now listen up, ruben.  you never, never, never mess with somebody inside the case!
excuse me?  excuse me?!  what do you...
you damn well better start working on that impulse control.  a woman who is implicated in this case? someone who is practically a piece of evidence?
it is against your rules that i try to help a witness who is scared shitless?  who's...
the woman's unstable.  you could wind up with a harassment charge. anything.  you are like some horny little teenager.
he is not treating her right...
she left you, nikko.  she is not your responsibility.  she takes very good care of herself.  if she wants to romance the kid, it am not your business.  your business is to snap out of it.
we were together six years, sir!
do not give me six years!  you never divorced patty, did you?  so what did you expect from m.j.?
she knows I am catholic!  she never mentioned divorce!  not once!
then you shoulda known she was not buying.  she was just long-term leasing' you.  ah, nickie.  except for that rare twenty-second twitch, there am not nothin' about sex i do not hate. but of course, I am irish.  plus i got real problems.  I am worried i might have to put you in over m.j.  there is something going on here, the commissioner is targeting her now, i can not leave a woman in that position.  but the thing is, how can i move you in, if you go on acting like a teenage asshole?
i do not want the job.  do not do that to her.  she is worked too damned hard for it.
what is going down with the sting in chinatown?  that going to be off your plate in a week or what?
so what have we got?
it is not the same guy.  it should be a self-solver.  no bow around the neck, left and body outdoors, completely different.  the others were housewives, secretaries, he talked his way inside, killed them in their own living room or bed- or bathroom.  this one did not have a husband or a boyfriend, no family, temp waitress, 3 arrests for misdemeanor dope offenses, dui, asphyxiation probably from a plastic bag over her head.  sexually assaulted.  the others were not molested that way.  we are waiting for the sperm tests...
christ.  how old are you?  you sure you want to be in this line of work?
you are damn right i do.
okay, now what about your sidekick punching my favorite detective? what the hell is going on?  you got no discipline in your operation.
I am sorry it had to come to your attention.  i am dealing with it.
where you going?
helen hudson...
what the hell you need her for?
because i think I am wrong.
you are fired.
i know.  do come and meet your guest.
we have got another one.
that is no surprise.
but it is a different m.o.
then what do you need me for?
she was killed somewhere else and dumped outdoors in an empty lot. where it says "no dumping."  her legs pulled apart in a kind of sexual pose.   it is all different but it seems so -- the same. artificial and posed... something is wrong with it.
you are saying it is the same man, but he is changed his style?  that does not happen.  these men are robotic; the murder is like a ritual.  the method itself is part of the pleasure...
who turned off the internet computer...
i turned it off.  it is like an open window he can climb right in...
he comes in the window, we maybe grab him.  where is the on-switch?
have you got a warrant?  get the hell out o here!  this is the only space i have left in the world!  why can not you leave me out of it?
helen -- the killer directly contacted you.  his interest in you is intense.  I am worried about you. i do not want to lose you.  i know this stirs up every monster under the bed, but this is the only direct contact we have with him. the only chance we have to trap him.  so, you can turn internet back on, or i do, and we put somebody here on a 24 hour shift and you can kick, scream and hyperventilate.
that little winona ryder manner... you are more convincing as clint eastwood.
clint is putting a guard on you. but if you swear to leave the computer on, winona will assign him to the hall outside.
ruben.
hello, ruben...  so that is that...
please thank inspector goetz for taking care of me last night.
there were needle marks.  but no drugs in her blood.
so far nothing they test for comes up positive.
is that it?
that is exactly... i could have taken that same picture, this morning.
that is not consistent... you said they never changed their style, they are robots...
consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.  tell them to test for the chemicals found in windex. that is a product for cleaning with...
i know windex, for god's sake, i clean my own windows...
it is what bianchi and buono injected into one of their victims.
injected windex!  why would he switch to a new m.o.?
ah, if you knew that, you would be half way to nailing him.  serial killing is irrational and rigid and compulsive.  this guy has a plan all thought out, flexible and complex.  he is playing a game with us.  who will he imitate next? maybe he is doing all the serial killers in history, the great innovators, the murderers' hall of fame.  just to prove he is better than all of them.  they got caught; he didn't.
he will get caught.  if he has a plan that will be what trips him up...
who is going to catch him?  you?  and if you do, there'll be another one.  and one after that.
you are afraid of him.
this one, yes.  i was always curious about these twisted little souls, but this is the first one I have felt personally terrified of. he is something new and unheard of. i do not know what he wants.
I am giving you clint outside.
halloran.
you betrayed me!  now every psychopath in the city knows I am back in business... you lied to me!
i did not; the mouth -- that is what we call susan schiffer -- got it on her own.
why should i trust you?
because I am all you have got.
it is a woman shot in a car?
yes.  i have to go...
she on the passenger side?
helen, hang up, let ruben get on with his work...
what is that music.  it is abba.  i can hear it.  it is abba.
what is abba?
bunch of swedish women.  you are too young.
do not hang up!
what?...
listen to me.  is there a gas station nearby?
yes.
is there a phone booth there?
they all have one...
go and look for a note.
she wants me to check the phone booth for a note.
helen... excuse me, we...
what is that siren?
one of those goddamned car alarms. what is going...
ruben's gone to look... it is banged up but it looks like a .44.  it is son of sam.  is it son of sam?
look in the crowd.  he liked to hang around and watch the cops at work...
then you get your ass outta here, i do not wanta see you again...
i brought a present for the lady, there.  I am looking for her, to give her the present...
you break into her apartment to deliver a gift?  where is it?
the door was open, swear to god, I am just looking for her when you come charging up the stairs...
where is it?
I am trying to tell you.  it is on the lady's pillow...
daryll lee cullum, he wrote that book, he wanted the lady to have it.  they will not let him send it to her, so I am getting out, he asks me to deliver it in person, he says, put it on her pillow.  it has all about how he tried to kill her.
he told you she was loaded, any- thing you could steal you could keep, conrad?  you bought yourself a return ticket to quentin, breaking and entering.
the door was already open...
we know...  send the book to evidence...
she is supposed to have it.
she do not want it.
open the door.  please.
why do not you shoot off the lock?
he was in my apartment!
i know, baby.  i know.
you know how to use this?
they taught me at the fbi.  i was very good at it.  it scared me... i liked it.
you take it, hang on to it, it will make you feel safer.  stay put.
what else?
hello.  i am  meryhew saks.  the song is called "murder by numbers."  the performers are a group called the police.  adam here... ... from behavioral science is working out exactly what this perpetrator is trying to telegraph in the note.  this is an extremely complex case, and we have a lot of fancy theories floating around. we are not ruling out the possib- ility of three copycat serial killers.  we have quantico working on graphology, the washington lap is cloning dna from the secretor. it is our feeling that the best lead we have is the two sperm samples in one of the victims.  we have a team sweeping sperm banks.  now i want to say a few word to you local people.  your commissioner asked for our assistance.  the bureau does not send us in on these cases to lord it over the local police. we could not catch up on what you people know if we had a year.  we have nation-wide resources and hard state of the art forensic science; you have the local savvy.  together we can be unbeatable.  which one is inspector halloran?
over here.
we do not see too many lady homicide detectives.  you have my respect. have you discussed the note with dr. hudson?
someone broke into her place last night.  it was not connected to our case, but it shook her up pretty bad so i haven't...
i was just about to advise the inspector here not to show dr. hudson the note.
sir, doctor hudson and i see a pattern develop...
we know helen.  she is not exactly a credible collaborator.  especially late in the day...
she takes tranquilizers her doctor prescribes.
who prescribes the brandy?
how come you are so up on dr. hudson?
she is a writer, writing best selling books about serial killing. giving lectures she is well-paid for.  her interests are not the interests of law enforcement.
okay.
we have put a tap on dr. hudson's phone.  i know you will not mention it.
m.j., I am going to have to borrow ruben.  the alien-smuggling thing in chinatown is going down tomorrow night and jack's kid got hit by a car.  i got to give ruben to nikko.
what does this mean?  now we got the fbi, my team is expendable? I am working my ass off, is anybody listening?  why ruben, anyway?  he and nikko do not even get on together...
teach both of them a lesson in cooperation and self-discipline.
if this is a first step in kicking me off the case, just tell me, to my face, sir, do not waste time being diplomatic.
just, i need results.  and -- i am short-handed.  who else am i gonna give him?
give him thatpompous son of a bitch.
they put  merry saks on it?!
he said to send you his regards and to tell you that the bureau holds you in the highest esteem.
what i can not believe is that in an earlier life i slept with him! christ!  any god that loved his people would give women a rewind on their life and an erase button.  just give me a minute here.  the letter is addressed to me...  you do not feel fear, do you? you are young.  you feel like you will live forever.  how wonderful.
i put my ass on the line, giving you that.
they were not going to show it to me?!  the arrogance!  it is my life!
it is also the major piece of evidence, and it makes you a key part of his plan.  you can not run away from it anymore.  look at the order he is doing them... he did three as the boston strangler just to tell us a copycat serial killer was at work.  then he did one like the hillside strang- ler.  and then one as son of sam. to lead us on -- to where and what end?  and he is doing more than that -- he is imitating each killer's method as closely as he can -- in details.  injecting windex.  using .44.  playing abba.
it is not chronological: son of sam was before hillside.
'...great dark hall of fame... all our greatest killers...'  his greatest heroes?  he wants to be famous.  when they are caught and people like me write about them, we give them a kind of immortality. they get thousands of letters. ramirez kills eight women and gets a hundred marriage proposals a month.  they are like film stars.
they get fan letters...
sorry, luv.  I have got a date.
you have got a date right here, andy. this has got to...
it is almost six.  and guess what? hall likes me bathed and shaved.
stop acting like a silly little fag!
you bastard!
but alive!
let's speed up the game plan... call all the living serials to ask if they have had contact with a peter kurten.  we could use some help on the phones...
they are not talking to me.  saks looks right through me.  i ask him for some bodies, for the phones -- he is so encouraging: "you make that your little job."  condescending bastard.  helen, on your lists to call is san quentin.  daryll lee cullum?
you do that one, i do not want it...
hello, daryll lee.
you read my book which as you know, hit the stands a couple of weeks ago.  you read it yet.
what book?
i sent it by private courier, he did not give it to you?  that son of a gun...!
I will look for it, daryll lee.
bet you never figured I would follow in your footsteps.  it is real well- written.  you should read it -- you are in it.
i will.  I will call you, daryll, and talk to you about it after I have read it.  right now i have a question... peter kurten.
kurten!  is he bothering you?  i told that son I would send him what he wanted if he leave you alone.
ah ha.  what did he want?
something personal.  is he bothering you?
i do not know.  I would like to know where he is.
listen, you want my advice?  steer clear.  he is writing me he is going to finish 'my unfinished symphony.' he is going to give me $550 for some of my cum, he says he is in a position to see that i will be immortal if he has some of my spunk.  I am offended.  right away i smell freak.  writin' about him and me and you bein' joined and he is going to finish my symphony?  i did not care for his drift.  i sent some liquid soap in a sandwich baggie with a message from jesus to mend his ways.  you hear i found jesus?  and what is funny is, now i do not mind bein' inside.  if i was out, even born again, I would probably get restless again.  it is maybe better i stay here, what do you think?
i think whatever is best for you, daryll.  and maybe you are right, that is the place.
you come and visit.
where did you send the message to peter kurten?
damn!  i gave that to conrad, too! that guy!  i told conrad deliver to kurten and keep the 500 bucks in return for getting my book to you.
how was conrad supposed to find kurten?
conrad has the phone number. conrad, where is he?
in jail.
that klutz.  they send him back here, I will kick his ass good.
the woman was in shock.  she was totally out on ranks.  i stayed because i did not want her to wake up alone in a place where she would just been under attack.  stop that, you son of a bitch!  the place was not secure.  i was doing my goddamn job!  and, for the second time, i slept in her living room.
do not try to lie, ruben.  you do not have the face for it.  i need you to help interrogate the burglar in hudson's place...
talk to nikko...!
i did not want the illigals, i wanted just the bastards dumping them in the harbor.  what is keeping those bums at immigration?  nightmare in here...
i gotta have ruben, and a...
the prowler in hudson's apartment turns out to have a meeting with a suspect...
you got a suspect...
how did you get in on the deal?
I am going to drop charges on the break-and-enter at hudson's...
you have no authority to make a deal like that.  that' s for the d.a...
or the f.b.i.?
saks.  if he knew you did that! they are all asking me, 'what is she doing,' as it is.
give me ruben back...
nikko?
I will talk to conrad myself.  I will be in the jail when you wind this up...
i got to get something to eat, i have not eaten all day.
who are you?
inspector halloran.  homicide. you were supposed to contact a peter kurten?
i was?  how you spell that?
cut the crap.  you got a sheet the length of my arm...
i never hurt nobody...
shut up -- I am talking.  you got felony breaking and entering, burglary, felonious...
i never carried a gun!
you do not listen very good.  this break in -- i can call it a felony -- three strikes, and you got about sixteen strikes already, and you are in jail for the rest of your life, no parole.  or i could see it gets forgotten.
you get me out first.
does not work that way.  you had your chance, now fuck yourself...
tell me what you want me to say. anything.
you were going to make a delivery to peter kurten for daryll lee cullum.  i want kurten's phone number.
i do not have it...
wait... wait... i already called him, i threw it away.
you already made the delivery?
no, that is still in my jacket i was wearing.  we were supposed to meet on the docks, that number 47 wharf, 10 of the clock friday.  he is going to hand me 500 bucks.
what friday?
what day is this?  in jail you lose track.  this week.  friday.
quinn will be here any minute.  what are you going to say?
christ.  i did not lock the fucking drawer!  you spend twenty years thinking some perp's going to whack you... you will crash your car... but what happens is, you fuck yourself...  you can not imagine how many times i saw you two... your head together, i wish him dead.  every time... want to hear something weird?  i feel like I would give my life to bring him back.
you are in terrible trouble, nikko.
who gives a fuck?  in all the years i never seen you cry.  you loved him.
you want mine, too?  you take his, you take mine.  I am the one fucked it up...
so I am maybe going to lose three good cops?  you fucked up on this occasion, but do not be so hard on yourself.  there is something i want you to think about.  the book says if you use your gun, use it to kill, that is what it is meant to do. you tried to pick this punk off with fancy shooting, to keep him alive.  to what end?  you are not willing to kill, you can not be a cop.  go get drunk.  i am.
what happened to you?!
ruben's dead.   so stupid, a cop thing, a crazy kid and a buncha dumb mistakes... I am sorry... because you and he...
i just thought it was so -- unprofessional.  of you both!
he felt sorry for me.  it was so nice to flirt.  he was a darling man.
a man?  i thought he was a boy.  this last christmas was the happiest christmas i had in the last ten years... you know why?  it was the first christmas in six years i was not in love.  son of a bitch married men!  who cares about marriage, the bed just gets crowded and noisy?!
you are exhausted.  let me get you a brandy.
where is the john?  let me clean up this mess, and get back to work.
who is the married man?
what does it matter?  this guy, you checked your course records, who signed up?
the university computer is down for maintenance, but I have been going through my own notes...
look.  there is the order:  you wrote it:  desalvo, bianchi & buono, berkowitz and dahmer.  it is going to be dahmer next.  which means he will kill a man.
yes.  dahmer!  and after that...
bundy.  that is the last one in your speech...
maybe you should...
I am working on it!  it is what i do.  quinn...halloran.  I will wait.  where is andy, can we get some coffee in here?
out.  where does he go?  nowhere. what does he do?  nothing.
i am not going to talk about it. how do you know it was andy if the head was gone?  where is the head? are you looking for it?  oh, god, why him?  because of me.  i can not talk about it.  i write about things like this, stuff it all in books and bury it in libraries. this is the first person close to me who is ever died.  and it is because of me.  this monster killed him because i loved him.
I have got to go.  I have got to go.
how many do you need to sleep. really sheep?
w-we had a fight.  i called him... called him a name...
christ, helen.  the first time, we are ahead of the son of a bitch! i can not leave you like this -- and there is no time.  knock yourself out.
that was bundy.  he killed forty of them, identical, long hair, parted in the middle, alike as barbie dolls.  ...this is hopeless.  let's try to get time for a police spokesman to appear on college radio and tv hookups and broadcast a warning?
"spokesperson."
where have you been?  what happened to your wallet?
hal has it.
i heard. good police work.
just horseshit luck.
do not ever forget how good you are.
helen.  i saw him die.  i saw him burning on the basement stairs, he never reached the top.
they never kill themselves.  how do you know it was him.  you never met him.  you never even saw a photograph...
helen -- let go.  you have got to let go.
he has not done bundy.  he is done every one of the others, has not he? if there are three dead chi omega college girls tomorrow, how will you feel?  go there.  see if there could be any way for him to escape.
this has been the worst 48 hours of my life.  I am going home.  I am going to try to get drunk.
if there is a one percent possibil- ity, can you live with yourself when he kills again?
oh, shut up, and do not be so damn self righteous.
hi.  it is your worst student, peter foley -- how do you grade me now, doctor?
who was the man in the basement?
you like that action?  did not that cop on tv look solemn?  the guy in the basement does not matter, anyway, just another lonely heart.
where are you, peter?
you thought i was going to do ted bundy next, so you sent your partner...
what was that?  what am i hearing? the sound of an epiphany, a sudden blinding insight?
it is daryll lee cullum, is not it?
mm-hmm.  i can not get to you.  you have to come to me.
you know i can not do that.
oh, i think you will.
for god's sake peter, leave her out of it.  you do not want her, you want me.
i need her; she is a cop.  i have to kill a cop, and then...
you have been perfect.  do not spoil the symmetry -- you have to have a male cop.
i do not care -- she is a cop.  that is the important thing.  cop-ness, not sex-ness.  it will not be perfect, but it will be good.
yes.  i do.  i want it to end now. let her go.  I will come -- just let her go.  she is not important.
you know where.
where it began -- mccluskey auditorium.
ma'am, please get out of your vehicle...
merry, how... oh, christ, of course, you had my phone tapped.
just get out of your vehicle...
he is got sergeant halloran in there.  he will kill her the minute he sees or hears your people...
you have been very useful, doctor, we appreciate all you have done, and now the professional will take over...
he wants me, he does not care about her.  let me...
kill me, peter, do it, now.
no.  not yet.
do it.  if that is what all this carnage is about, then do it.  have enough guts to do it.
do not talk to me about courage.  i know death, what it is like to kill. you are not a killer -- you watched daryll lee kill that cop and you did not make a peep, because you were paralyzed with fear.  you chocked.  i know something else about you.
we will keep talking.  until they get here.  then...
i have no life anymore.  i ruined your life, make me pay for it.
why did you do that?  did not you have any idea how hard it was for me, to get that far?  i worshipped you.  you inspired me.  i thought you could understand me the way you understood the others.  i knew that about you -- the ones you admired were the great murderers; they fascinated you.
that is not who i admire -- i admire people who are good at what they do, great artists, writers, thinkers...
i do not have the talent for any of those things.  all i have a talent for is death.  and i am one of a kind.  what do you think of your student now?  i have made you famous, i am your creation and your monument.
oh, please.  i know what is coming, now.  "let me help you..."
do anything you want to me.  i give myself to you.  only put the knife down.  is not this what you always wanted?  i know it is what we all want, to love and to loved.  i could love you.  you could work together in some safe place, learn to really understand you, help you, give you some peace of mind, some happiness...
back in the driver's seat again, doctor?  that old dream -- study us to see what makes us sick.  so you can find a cure -- they would name it after you?  death is the only cure for people like me.
she is in no shape to give her statement tonight...
no, she can come in tomorrow... gonna want to know a lot of things...
why can not i drive home?  i will. you.  look at you.  you need a ride home.  and you do not even know it.
well, thanks.
