where were you?
in the private aircraft hangar. anybody could have walked in.
did you come?
no. what about your camera girl? did she come?
we were interrupted. i had to go back to the set...
poor darling.  what can i do about karen? how can i arrange to have her seduce me? she desperately needs a conquest.
I have been thinking about that, about you and karen.
there, that is better.
thank you.
not a lot of action here.
they consider this to be the airport hospital. this ward is reserved for air- crash victims. the beds are kept waiting.
if i groundloop during my flying lesson on saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
I will listen for you buzzing over.
is that a gift from wendel? it has an aeronautical feel to it.
yes. from wendel. to celebrate, the license approval for our air-charter firm. i forgot to tell you.
that is going well, then.
well, yes.  you are getting out of bed tomorrow. they want you to walk.
the other man, the dead man, his wife is a doctor - dr. helen remington. she is here, somewhere. as a patient, of course. maybe you will find her in the hallways tomorrow on your walk.
and her husband? what was he?
he was a chemical engineer with a food company.
where is the car?
outside in the visitors, car park.
what!? they brought the car here?
my car, not yours. yours is a complete wreck. the police dragged it to the pound behind the station.
have you seen it?
the sergeant asked me to identify it. he did not believe you would gotten out alive.
it is about time.
it is?
after being bombarded endlessly by road- safety propaganda, it is almost a relief to have found myself in-an actual accident.
crash victim?
yes.
minute flecks were spattered across the seat and steering wheel. the instrument panel was buckled inwards, cracking the clock and the speedometer dials. the cabin was deformed, and there was dust and glass and plastic flakes everywhere inside. the carpeting was damp and stank of blood and other body and machine fluids.
you should have gone to the funeral.
i wish i had. they bury the dead so quickly - they should leave them lying around for months.
what about his wife? the woman doctor? have you visited her yet?
no, i couldn't. i feel too close to her.
renata tells me you are going to rent a car.
i can not sit on this balcony forever. I am beginning to feel like a potted plant.
how can you drive? james... your legs. you can barely walk.
is the traffic heavier now? there seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident.
I have never really noticed. is renata going with you?
i thought she might come along. handling a car again might be more tiring than i imagine.
I am amazed that she will let you drive her.
you are not envious?
maybe i am a little.  james, I have got to leave for the office. are you going to be all right?
are we allowed to park here?
no.
I am sure the police would make an exception in your case.
there is still a patch of blood there on the road. did you see it?
i saw the blood. it looks like motor oil.
you were the last one i saw just before the accident. do you remember? we made love.
are you still involving me in your crash?
can you drive?
i can drive.
after this sort of thing, how do people manage to look at a car, let alone drive one?  I am trying to find charles's car.
it is not here. maybe the police are still holding it. their forensic people...
they said it was here. they told me this morning.
i do not think we should have come here. I am surprised the police do not make it more difficult.
were you badly hurt? i think we saw each other at the hospital.  i do not want the car. in fact, i was appalled to find that i have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped.
can i give you a lift?  i somehow find myself driving again.
you have not told me where we are going.
have not i? to the airport, if you could.
the airport? why? are you leaving?
not yet - though not soon enough for some people, I have already found. a death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy.
i take it you are not wearing white to reassure them.
I will wear a bloody kimono if i want to.
so - why the airport?
i work in the immigration department there.
do you want a cigarette? i started to smoke at the hospital. it is rather stupid of me.
look at all this traffic. I am not sure i can deal with it.
it is much worse now. you noticed that, did you? the day i left the hospital i had the extraordinary feeling that all these cars were gathering for some special reason i did not understand. there seemed to be ten times as much traffic.
are we imagining it?
I have found that i enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. i like to look at it. yesterday i hired a taxi driver to drive me around for an hour. "anywhere", i said.
we sat in b massive traffic jam under an off-ramp. i do not think we moved more than fifty yards.  I am thinking of taking up a new job with the road research laboratory. they need a medical officer. the salary is larger something I have got to think about now. there is a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, I am beginning to feel. well, it is a new approach for me, in any case.
the road research laboratory? where they simulate car crashes?
yes.
is not that rather too close...?
that is the point. besides, i know i can give something now that i was not remotely aware of before. it is not a matter of duty so much as of commitment.
what is it?
a complimentary ticket for a special stunt-driving exhibition. definitely not part of the big auto show. there is a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discrete about the location.
really? what kind of exhibition is it?
i suspect it involves reenactments of famous car crashes. you know, jayne mansfield, james dean, albert camus...
you are kidding.
serious. but you will have to take your new friend, the female crash-test dummy. she dropped it off for you.
you are not jealous, are you? you have to understand... helen and i had this strange, intense... experience together.
who is that? the announcer. do i know him?
that is vaughan. he talked to you at the hospital.
oh yes. i thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. he wanted every conceivable detail about our crash.
when i first met vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. i do not know what he is now.
is this part of the act or are they really hurt?
i do not know. you can never be sure with vaughan. this is his show.
why are the police taking this all so seriously?
it is not the police. it is the department of transport. internal politics. it is a joke. they have no idea who we really are
do you live here? with seagrave?
i live in my car. this is my workshop.
what exactly is your project, vaughan? ~ book of crashes? a medical study? a sensational documentary? global traffic?
it is something we are all intimately involved in: the reshaping of the human body by modern technology.
he must have tucked a lot of women in that huge car of his. it is like a bed on wheels. it must smell of semen...
it does.
do you find him attractive?
he is very pale. covered with scars.
would you like to tuck him, though? in that car?
no. but when he is in that car...
have you seen his penis?
i think it is badly scarred too. from a motorcycle accident.
is he circumcised? can you imagine what his anus is like? describe it to me. would you like to sodomize him? would you like to put your penis right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? tell me, describe it to me. tell me what you would do. how would you kiss him in that car? describe how you would reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. would you kiss it or suck it right away? which hand would you hold it in? have you ever sucked a penis? do you know what semen tastes like? have you ever tasted semen? some semen is saltier than others. vaughan's semen must be very salty...
please finish your story.
the junior pathologist at ashford hospital. then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage.
and you had sex with all of these men in cars? only in cars?
yes. i did not plan it that way.
and did you fantasize that vaughan was photographing all these sex acts? as though they were traffic accidents?
yes.  they felt like traffic accidents.
I have always wanted to drive a crashed car.
you could get your wish at any moment.
no, i mean a crash with a history. camus' facel vega, or nathaniel nest's station wagon, grace kelly's rover 3500. fix it just enough to get it rolling. do not clean it, do not touch anything else.
is that why you drive this car? i take it that you see kennedy's assassination as a special kind of car-crash?
the case could be made.
it is very... satisfying. I am not sure i understand why.
it is the future, ballard, and you are already part of it. for the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. for example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event - a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. to fully understand that, and to live that... that is my project.
what about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? i thought that was your project.
a crude sci-fi concept that floats on the surface and does not threaten anybody. i use it to test the resilience of my potential partners in psychopathology.
what does he want from you?
hard to say.
I am going to leave now. do you want a lift?
no, thanks. I will go with vaughan.
they are questioning vaughan about an accident near the airport. some pedestrian... they think he was run over intentionally.
vaughan is not interested in pedestrians.
you would better drive him. he is a bit shaky. I will follow in my car. where is yours?
at home. i could not face all this traffic.
I would better come with you, then. are you sure you can drive?
he must have driven through a pool of blood. if the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed. vaughan kneels beside him and inspects the smears of blood.
you are right, ballard. there is an all- night car-wash in the airport service area.
i need to see you, ballard. i need to talk to you about the project.
where are you?
i thought that was you, up there.
my last lesson's next week.  james... my car...
i was not driving. I would left the car in the parking lot at the airport. could it have been deliberate?
one of your suitors?
one of my suitors.
the traffic... where is everyone? they have all gone away.
I would like to go back. james...
not yet. it is only beginning.
i think he will be waiting for us at the airport
james.
