i made you coffee.  that oughta help you cope with the injustice of the world a little.
thanks, it is starting to kick in.  i feel almost human.
yeah, me too.
it is payday, need me to pick up your check?
you are the best, maxie.
nobody there to sign for it, mon.  what is a bruddah s'posed to do, ride around all day with the damn package?
so you just decided to return it to the sender.  or, in this case, the sender's wife.
like de prophets say, "only the unrighteous husband sends expensive gift- wrapped underpants to another woman."
which is none of your business...or mine.
it concerns only jah.  but, in this case, i was the instrument of the most high.
yeah, well around here, I am the most high... from now on, before you do anything, call in for instructions.
this is a hot run.  beat it.  you are late.
i was on call.
i want you on call here.
what is the difference if I am on call here or deployed in the field.
more like deployed in bed asleep.
i do not sleep... theo asked me to pick up his check.
and theo can not pick up his own check because?...
he is sick.
for a change.
how 'bout you do not break my sneakers on this.  the guy is seriously not well.
you tell theo he is not in tomorrow he can start looking for another job.
i do not know how to break this to you, normal, we are all looking for another job.
morning, sunshine...
caught some son-of-a-bitch stealing my bike.  used a car jack to blow out my u lock and bent a bunch of spokes.  so now i gotta get my wheels fixed.
at least he did not swing with your ride.
no, but i broke a nail giving him a cranium crack and that just sort of wrecks your day, know what I am saying?
now, why can not i find a girlfriend like that?  brings him lunch everyday, thoughtful, sweet, legs from here to there--
straight.
shame, wastin' a girl like that on a guy, but what are you going to do?
catch you back at the wall.
later.
quitting time.  grab a cold one?
i gotta meet natalie for dinner.
right, the big one-oh.
but I will take a rain check...
how're ya doin', max.
you mean until you showed up?
you are not still pissed?
why would i be pissed?
it was a complicated situation which could have been misconstrued, causing you to maybe take offense.
'cause you went out the back door and nailed her girlfriend?  who would take offense to that?
justine was not an unwilling participant.
do you know why i went after justine?
she was there...
trying to have a relationship with you, max, is like standing in a fog bank.  you know you are in the middle of something only you have absolutely no idea where you are.
and when the fog lifted, there is darren with his head under justine's skirt.
could you give us a moment.
i was crazy about you...am crazy about you.  but you keep everyone at arm's length like there is some great big dark something going on that-- i do not know... it is just that the more i tried to get close to you, the more you pulled away.
I am really glad we are having this conversation.  you are right.  i was angry at you.  but talking about it-- the scales have fallen from my eyes and i see now that it was all my fault.  can you ever forgive me?
i see the perimeter defense system is still fully intact... at least i tried.
craps all over everything and everyone and then wants mommy to forgive him.
what guys do.  'nother order.
you are way more philosophical than i could ever be.
i just do not go in with any expectations.
that is odd...
what?
tell me the truth.  am i a female fog bank?
you are not seriously buying into darren's nonsense.
no.
he was just trying to blame you 'cause he is a slut.
yeah.
hell yeah.  there is not the slightest grain of truth in anything that idiot was saying.  you are a totally down-ass female and a straight-up friend who happens to be a little...
a little what?
you know what I am saying.
if i knew what you were saying, i would not be asking.
how long you and me known each other?
a long time.
long enough for you to pretty much read me like a book, right?
because you are probably my closest friend in the whole world.
and back at ya.  only there is a part of you that's... i do not know--
a fog bank.
more like a mystery... which is not bad. it is just kinduv...mysterious...
gotta go.
where?
it is a secret.
i asked you to keep that thing outside.
you did.
you drive away business roarin' in like that.
yeah, does kinda break the elegant atmosphere you got goin' on here.
you got a punk-ass mouth on you, kid.
my name's not kid.  it is client.  as in the person who pays for your opulent lifestyle.  now, you got something for me or not?
right here someplace.
i got a hit on the car.  an oh-five tahoe, blue, with wyoming tags... agt349... it was not easy 'cause you were off in one of the numbers.
sorry, i was seven at the time.
who is this guy?  this is not who we are looking for...her name was hannah.
he got the car in a trade for his old pick-up and some food...no bill of sale or nothing.  it was right after the pulse so all the dmv records were wiped.  so we do not get anything on the seller.  except i actually managed to find this guy, six hours on the phone... say thank you.
thank you.
he says he got it from a woman.  does not remember her name but she fits the description you gave like a glove.
guy says he made the trade in gillette, wyoming sometime in the fall of oh-nine.
then what?
then what?  that is it.  that is all i got.
nothing on hannah?
a nuclear airburst wipes out every record of every kind in every computer east of the rockies, and you want me to find some woman you met when you were seven, whose last name you do not even know... maybe if you could give me something more on her...anything you can remember, some detail...
she was a nurse.  she must have lived near there, somewhere, near the...  ...the clinic.  there must be some registry of nurses or medical technicians or whatever for wyoming.
only a last name would be nice.  or the nearest town to this...clinic.
what about the other kids?  you get anything on them?
they do not exactly have a search engine for finding a bunch of kids with bar- codes on their necks, which is something I am not even going to ask about--
you were gonna run through the law enforcement databases for a match on identifying marks.
nothing so far from arrests, hospital admissions or coroners.  this kind of search...it's heavy spadework.  I am going to need--
more money... like I am shocked to hear you say that.
oh my god!  in here!  in here!
shhh!  do not do that!
you are a thief?
girl's got to make a living.
thank god.
first time i ever heard that.
i was expecting someone else.
guess it was not the pizza delivery guy.
you are lucky.  i almost pulled the trigger.
I am sorry if i caught you at a bad time.
we are just a little tense right now...  it is okay.
you have good taste.  french, 1920's, attributed to chitarus.
whoever that is.
so, what, you liked it because it was shiny?
no, because it is the egyptian goddess bast.
who is...
the goddess who comprehends all goddesses, eye of ra, protector, avenger, and destroyer, giver of life, who lives forever... i could keep going.
what are you doing here?
i live here... guess i do not have to ask what you are doing here.
you are roommates?
some of us are trying to sleep.
you did not tell me you lived with her.
you know each other?
he is a mistake i made about six months before you did.  but do not feel bad. justine made the same mistake, along with renee, jada, tia, brooke--
yech...
nothing happened between me and tia.
leave.  now.
can i say something in my defense?
no.
what is it?
police drone.
it is a sweep.  c'mon.
what?  where are we going?
lemme put some clothes on.
no time.
move it.
where?
out there.
no way.
unless you wanna end up in jail, let me and kendra handle the cops.
but I am afraid of--
do not look down.
what a creep.
and for all his cattin' around, not much of a stick man either.
what is with you?  every week this scumbag puts the squeeze on us and every week you roll out the welcome wagon like he is family.
just thought maybe he would like a little coffee with his saliva.
you didn't...
every week.
playing hooky again?
feel like the dog's dinner.
probably a touch of what is going around.
i know what i got, max.  they put me back on that drug they are giving the other vets.  only the guy does those cable hacks says the stuff's no good.
do not believe everything you hear on tv.
what if he is on the level?
here's the dealio on eyes only.  he is probably some wack rich dude sitting around in a trick-ass apartment, bored stupid.  so he gets off on scarin' the poop outta folks like you-- i got to go.
tell everybody hey.
you can tell 'em yourself tomorrow.
hey, sketchy--
we gotta talk.
what is up?
you blew off your girlfriend last night, even though it was the big one-oh.  I would be pissed off too if i was her.
not half as pissed as she is going to be when she finds out why i blew her off... i need your help, max.
i do not see how you cheating on natalie involves me.
i know what you are thinking.  but the truth is, this other person is not someone I am in love with.  as a matter of fact, after what she just did, she is not even someone i like much.  so in a technical sense, I am not sure you could call me and her cheating...officially.
do guys actually believe their lame, self- serving excuses?
max--
or do you think we are just so grateful to have one of you idiots we will look the other way, which is arrogant and condescending.
lame, self-serving, arrogant...guilty as charged.
you left out condescending.
but there is another side--
here it comes.  the part where the guy turns everything around.
I am the victim here.
really?
hear me out.  this person I have been seeing is a jam pony client who happens to be married--
and you were a sympathetic ear.
exactly.
then a sympathetic mouth, then a sympathetic--
she had me followed the other day and found out about natalie.  now, this person's demanding i blow her off or she will do it for me by telling nat about us.
does this person have a name?
lydia.
and lydia telling natalie the truth makes you a victim in what way?
I am a toy to her.
a toy?
she is as much as said so.  but she does not want to share her toy with anyone else... it is just an ego thing with her.
fight fire with fire.  threaten to go to her husband.
who either does not care, or could have me killed.  either way, natalie's still going to find out.
what happens if you level with her?
even if she does not dump me, which is unlikely, she would never be able to trust me again.
and why should she?
look max, i made a terrible mistake.  one I will never, ever make again.  natalie and i are soulmates.  i know that now.  she is the woman i want to spend the rest of my life with.  i guess it took the thought of losing her for me to understand that.
I am looking for a lady who works here.
ladies would be elsewhere.
know where i can find her?
you do not want to.
but she does work here?
she may be easy on the eyes but she is trouble, trust me.  hot run to two-oh-two sansomme.
i need to talk to her.
can not help you.
max something.  i got no clue where she stays.
any idea when she will be back?
none.
I will wait.
you are actually going to bail sketchy out.
yeah, 'cause maybe he is learned his lesson.
unlikely.
and because he is my friend.
friends do not help other friends cheat.
and because i actually kinda feel sorry for guys sometimes.
please...
they are prisoners to their genes.
so are dogs.
they do not have a lot of moving parts.
only one i can think of.
besides, think of the drama I am sparing natalie.
i say hang the bastard out to dry, let her see him for the heel he is, then maybe she will step to the all-girl team and let mama-licious ease her pain.
but, of course, there is nothing self- serving in that scenario.
so this guy walks into a bar and says...
we did not get a chance to finish our conversation the other night.
original cindy, say hi to my good friend--
logan cale.
sorry about your window.
can we go somewhere and talk?
lemme get my coat.
the one you are wearing?
how did you find me?
was not that hard.
am i s'posed to be flattered by all the attention?
now you know who i am, where i live.  i figured i better find out who I am dealing with in case you were looking to hurt me.
so now you tracked me down.  what d'ya think?
too early to tell.
how does mrs. eyes only like being married to a guy on everybody's hit list?
lauren's not my wife.
girlfriend?
one of my sources.  her husband was murdered by edgar sonrisa.
what is your shot in all this?  being a famous, anonymous, underground, pirate, cyber-journalist can not be much of a payday.
fortunately, my needs are met in that department.
so, what, you just like the sound of your own voice?
look around at all this...  built by people who got up every morning and worked hard trying to make a better life.  then the bomb happened and everyone got scared.  they blinked and before they knew it they would given away the store to a bunch of thugs who were happy to take it off their hands.  overnight the government, the police, everything intended to protect the people had been turned against them.
you miss the good old days.  even though there were still poor people who died from diseases when they did not have to. and rich people spent obscene amounts of money redecorating their houses to match the cat.  those good old days?
people had a choice, even if they took it for granted.  and now they don't.
so what are you gonna do about it?
something.
personally, I am more interested in going fast on my motorcycle or climbing the trans american building with my pals. instead of giving myself a headache over stuff i can not do anything about.
you accept the way things are, you are an active participant in making it worse.
is the social studies class over for today?
yeah...
so you are straight on how this is going to go down.
you set up on lydia.  when she is on her way over to the apartment you give me the heads up.  i answer the door and pretend to be natalie.
she tells you how I have been--
--a philandering pig.
but you explain that you are a compassionate and understanding person who can find it in your heart to forgive me.
or, i dissolve into an angry, hysterical wreck who never wants to see your lying ass again, which is probably what would really happen.
i just do not want natalie to ever find out.  she deserves better.
how did you get her out of town?
convinced her she needed to visit her mom in san mateo.
and we are sure lydia's going to make her move?
she came by the apartment once already. fortunately, I would disconnected the doorbell as a precaution... lydia's not going to back off until she gets her pound of flesh.
I will give it my best shot.
max, what did i do to deserve a friend like you?
you don't.
fourteen-thirteen market.  get a signature, then take it to this address... by the way, that guy who was in here sniffing after you yesterday called twice already.
tell him i took the day off 'cause i was not feeling so hot.
what about this?
I am taking the rest of the day off 'cause I am not feeling so hot.
who is it?
a friend of your fiance's.
what do you want?
to set the record straight about where he was the other night when he said he was working late.
who are you?
my name's lydia.  and it seems you and i have a lot in common.
you said you knew where my fiance was the other night.
with me, where he is been after work, three, sometimes four nights a week for the last two months... we have what you might call an intimate relationship.
how do i know you are telling the truth?
he been sleeping in a t-shirt lately?  that is so you will not see the fingernail marks on his back.  bet you did not know your boyfriend finds a little pain exciting.  he did not either...at first.
look, i do not know what you want--
i thought it was important for you to know the facts.
and so should you.  sketchy told me i could expect a visit from you.  i know all about how you threatened him.  that if he did not break it off with me, you would save him the trouble.
oh?
well, it is over between you and him. we are getting married next month.
how sweet.  standing by your man, even after what he did.  you are a very understanding person.
big part of loving someone is being able to forgive them.
you are also a fool.
i think you should go now.
not before we get something straight you prissy little bitch.  i decide when I am done with your boyfriend.  not him, and certainly not you.  unless maybe you want to find out just how sharp these nails really are.
this is not a place you wanna go.
let go of my hand.
help... lemme go... no, do not let me go... help...
now, here's how it is going to be, lydia. you are going to take your threats and your acrylic nails, and you are going to go home and figure out your marriage, instead of trying to make other people feel as miserable as you do, understand?
okay, okay.
say the words, "i understand."
i understand.
and if i ever catch you coming near my man again...
you rock, max.  you... rock...
easy sketchy.
no, I am serious.  that psycho got exactly what she deserved... yes.
lydia may not have been one of humanity's finer specimens but--
she is toxic...monster in bed, but toxic.
you would be making a mistake to come away from this thinking she is the villain in the piece... you are.
she was the one--
none of this would have happened if you had exercised even a smidgen of good judgement or self-restraint, which you didn't.
true, but--
you were trying to have it both ways and you were being completely selfish.  and if i ever find out you are going out the back door on natalie again, you are the one who is going to be hanging by your ankles three stories up.  understand?
okay, okay, okay--
say the words, "i understand."
ever notice how cats always seem to turn up around dinner time?
i will not be staying.
I am not a half bad cook.
like following me around and pestering the people i work with was not bad enough, but breaking into my apartment--
it was open.
you got a lotta nerve.
me?  you are the one who tried to rip off this piece.
completely different situation.  i steal things in order to sell them.  for money. it is called commerce.  but some stranger sneaking into a girl's bedroom is...bent.
bent?
bent.
you make it sound i pawed through your priceless collection of underwear.
how do i know you didn't?
so saw my hands off, i left you a present.
am i s'posed to be grateful?
that would be appropriate, yes.
how'm i s'posed to ever sleep there again knowing some pervo's probably touched everything i own?
you are that nervous, you are welcome to stay here.
whoa there, tex!  we have been through all this.
it is alright, peter, we are fine.
we are not fine.
look, if i made you nervous or uncomfortable or creeped you out--
yes on all counts.
I am sorry.  it was not my intention.  but i had to see you.
you would think a guy who is taken on the job of saving the world would have a few more important things to do than traipse around after some girl.
i have not been able to get you off my mind.
you need to get out more.
c'mere, i want to show you something.
gold leaf, art nouveau, french, early nineteen hundreds... i could probably fence this for three or four grand.
no, i meant this.
expensive gifts, surprise late-night visits, over-the-top flattery... you always come on this strong?
only when i meet someone i have to know everything about.
suppose i could help you locate the other ones.
the other ones?
the other one like you...
you lost me.
c'mon, max.  first i watch you dive headfirst out the window fifteen stories up like you are rocky the flying squirrel. then, i found this in your apartment.
l-triptophane...a neurotransmitter sometimes used in homeopathy to control seizures.  then the lightbulb went off.
you did go through my stuff.
i do not know what kind of game you are playing here but I am out because you are a whack-job.
he was working on something called project manticore, which was using recombinant dna to produce a superior human...a warrior...an advanced infantry soldier.
not that i do not enjoy a good urban legend now and then but what does any of this have to do with me?
the bar code on your neck, max.  i know who you are and i know who you are running from.
goodnight bears.  goodnight chairs. goodnight kittens.  goodnight mittens. goodnight clocks.  and goodnight socks. goodnight little house.  and goodnight--
i do not want to move away.
i know, honey, but just think how exiting it will be-- new house, new school, new friends--
but why can not we stay here?
because we can't.  there is nothing here for us anymore.
are we in some kind of trouble?
no...
then how come last night i heard you talking to logan and you were crying?
what makes you cry?
if I am sad, or tired, or sometimes when I am angry or when somebody is being mean to me.
pretty much the same reasons i was crying.  but things will be better when we move to a new place.
then I am going to do what you do to make me feel better when I am sad.
we got separated right away.  i never knew how many made it.
how well do you remember the lab?
i remember fine.  i just did not understand what was going on.  they never told us anything except what to do.  it took me a long time afterwards to figure things out.
how much do you know?
i know they made me.  even got the label on my neck to prove it.
the technical term for you is "chimera"...
yeah...a made-up creature.  like in mythology...with the head of a lion, the body of a goat and the tail of...
a girl.
your basic hodge-podge.
hardly...
christmas is a snap when you got no parents or relatives, just a bunch of gene sequences from probably twenty different people.
like extra virgin olive oil, the best of the best.
you said you could help.
i need to find this technician, or anyone else who knows about project manticore. they would have used surrogate mothers to carry you after the in-vitro work... if i can track down one of them.
what is in it for you?
your help.
i already do not like the sound of this.
the woman you met, lauren.  she supervised workers removing cortodiazapine from gel caps by hand and replacing it with powdered sugar.  the real drug was shipped out of the country. the placebos were distributed to county va hospital and six veterans' clinics in the area.
that is low, but this effects me how exactly?
she is prepared to testify that she was instructed to do this by one of edgar sonrisa's managers.  you know who sonrisa is?
yeah, i catch your hacks.  he is satan's lap dog, or something.
so, you know the lengths he will go to keep her from going public... I am turning lauren over to canadian law enforcement tomorrow.  they will put her in witness protection, but if you are with her the risk of her safety goes way down.
i did not make it this far by attracting a lot of attention.
she is put her life on the line, and her faith in me.
they want me...bad.  or at least they do not want me grabbed up by the chinese or whoever.  best case, i wind up back in that facility.  more likely, it is a long drive out in the country, if you know what i mean.
they have lost track of me and i plan to keep it that way.
you are a soldier, max.  that is what you were put here for.  but soldiers need a mission otherwise they tear themselves up.
that is deep.  but before you lecture me about the meaning of life maybe you oughta get one...ta ta.
where did you clip this?
i didn't.  it was a present from a guy.
must think you are pretty special laying this on you.
thought so.  turned out he wanted me for something else though.
same old story.  not interested.
thought I would let you have first crack... later.
what are you looking for?
a grand.
which means i got to fence it for two. who is got that kinda scrilla lying around, these being the worst of the times.
i am not mad at you...
I will give you seventy-five bucks for it.
later.
i should not do this.  but i got a client lookin' to score some fire power.  maybe you will keep your eyes open for me.
i do not get involved with guns.
I will make it worth your while.
it is a rule.
you are light a deuce.
am i?
so max, what do you do with all your money?
i got overhead...
as long as you are okay.
I will live... regarding your case...i'm afraid I have come up with some bad news on your fiance.  lemme get the file.
i do not know what your story is and i do not want to.
here's your money.
whoever tossed this place wants you.  and I am looking to stay outta the line of fire.
how is this about me?
they lifted my wallet to make it look like a robbery.  but there is a bug in my computer keyboard, a tap on the phone and a mike in the light fixture.
like you said, maybe somebody is tracking one of your investigations.
hardware's too sophisticated.  it is got to be the government.  and why do i think they are looking for you?
you are crazy.
I am you, i take that money and get outta town while you can.
your fiance has four previous wives.  his m.o. is to clean 'em out and take off.  which is what you oughta do.
bastard...
I am sorry i could not come up with something more positive.
you and me both.
hot run to 842 beulah, corner of haight... and you can tell your pal theo he just got his worthless ass fired. not that he cares but the wife and kid might.
theo's dead.
that was extreme!  did you see that one guy--
shut-up...
damn... are you alright?
they took my daughter.
i know.
i could not get to her.  it all happened so fast.  logan had her, and i saw him fall...then peter told me to run.  and then he...and i remember so clearly, thinking it is me they want.  if i run, maybe they will come after me.  maybe they will not think about her... so i ran...
your daughter's the only leverage they have to keep you quiet.
can you help me get her back?
look, I would really like to...
if i give myself up in exchange for sophy, would you make sure she is okay?
we are not going that route.  sonrisa's not someone you make deals with.
what else can we do?
like i said-- this is not my regular line of work so I am making it up as i go.
who are you?
bruno's girlfriend.
oh, yeah?
yeah.
but see tonight wives and girlfriends are not invited.
no?
no... cause tonight the girls are here in a more or less professional capacity. all of them work for me, and you don't... let's go.
okay, okay.  i can explain... you ever have to do something you really do not want to?
how i make my living, what is your point?
this.
mr. sonrisa saw you on the cameras.  he wants you to come see him.
I am on a break.
guess again.
yeah, i can see to it your winning streak continues.
I will bet you can.  sit.
not right now.
not right now?  okay, when?
right after you change your wardrobe, your personality and drop about thirty pounds.
quite a mouth on a girl so young...  ...but my guess is talking is not what it does best.
only way you are ever going to find out is reincarnation... fact is, you are going to pay me, and i am going to provide you with a service.
i actually know how this works.
you are going to pay me fifty thousand dollars...
who are you?
what, you gonna put me on your christmas card list?
no wire.
now that that is out of the way... you want the woman, here's how it works.  you pull fifty large out of your mattress or wherever, and i make a call to bring her in.
or we can work on your face with a pair of pliers for a couple of hours and you tell us where she is.
or we could go another way 'cause your boss seems to like my face just the way it is.
look, you are a player... I am bringing you this on a plate, and my fee is just the normal cost of doing business.
pull the cash.
so, how do you get the woman to come to me?
i told her it is just business to you, that all you want is a reasonable solution to this.  you give her daughter back, she agrees to leave the country.  i play the guarantor, drive her down to mexico tonight, and put her on a train to brazil or wherever.
and she bought that?
i have sincere eyes.
make the call.
she is going to need to know that her little girl's alright.
she is got my word.
she is going to want to hear for herself.
look, we got to keep the momentum up here, not give her a chance to think.  if she hears her kid's voice...
hello...
hang on, lauren.  we are conferencing in sophy.
sophy?  are you okay?
mommy, where are you?
do not worry, I am coming to get you.
when?
soon, baby.
mommy, I am scared.
there is nothing to be afraid of. everything's going to be alright.
can you put that in a bag or something?
you get it when i get her.
okay...idea.  compromise, right?  bruno here comes with me.  he holds the money until mommy shows up, then we close escrow.  what you do with her after I am gone does not keep me awake nights.
look, that thing about the pliers, i was just doing what the man pays me to do. ya know?  comin' off hard.
yeah, sure, i understand.
i never woulda done it.  probably not, anyway.  i mean, i actually think you are pretty cool.
yeah?
you are attractive, you are smart.  stand on your own two feet, know what i mean? and you got a wicked sense of humor. man, you really zinged the boss a couple times, it was all i could do--
sooo...whattya think?  maybe after i betray the woman who trusts me and you take her and her daughter out and execute them...we could go on a date.  play a little miniature golf or somethin'.
man, you got a bad attitude.
i like to keep it professional, that is all.
fine.  so call her.  get her over here.
actually, that is not going to be necessary.
what?
that is not why we are here.
what the hell are you talkin' about? call her.
call the skank now or i start redecorating.
you have not figured this out yet, have you?  you walk in here thinking you are going to cap her then cap me and take the money back to your boss with your tail wagging... but see it is really the other way around.  you think I am the whack, when actually you are the whack.
see what you do not know is you are already in the last two minutes of your life.
you are in the last two seconds, you do not cut the crap.
you can hardly blame him, the way you have been taking care of business...or should i say, not taking care of it.
what are you talkin' about?
I am hired to do a piece of work, my mark goes down and stays down.  your's makes it to the hospital where you then got to go finish the job.  only the cops got the whole thing on video tape.
that is a lotta crap.
security camera got you coming outta the stairwell, weapon in your hand, going to room one-oh-four and greasing the patient.  it is embarrassing to the professional community, is what it is.
how come i never hearda you before?
I am outta portland.  sonrisa did not want local talent.
this is what your life's worth, bruno.
but the boss knows i always been loyal.
he is got exposure.  he sees you starin' at fifteen to life, there is a chance you could roll over, cop a plea, who knows? man's figured the odds...and he can not take a chance.
ass like your, i can see why he is worried you will punk.
what the hell are you doing?
who is camille?
none of your business.
this will not hurt.  triple dose of insulin, you will go into a coma, couple minutes you will stop breathing and on a busy night, the coroner will probably mistake it for an o.d.  plus, it is way classier than blowin' your brains out.
i need a favor... i need you to trace a number for me.
sure you wanna be havin' this conversation over the phone?
just do it... five-seven-five-oh- eight...
zero... c'mon, dan i do not have all day.
got a pencil?
just give it to me.  I will remember.
one-seven-four-nine-five natoma.
I am on my way.
what are you lookin' at me for?  I am not his next of kin.  anyway, i do not got that kind of cash lyin' around.
theo rode for this place a long time, man.
see you are back and still rocking the boat.
somebody is got to.
i would have come sooner, but...i didn't... how're you doin'?
not in any pain...the good and bad news of a blown out spinal cord.
I am sorry.
my mother used to say the universe is right on schedule.  everything happens like it is supposed to.
you believe that?
I have never been much for trying to understand why bad things happen, i just know they do.  so the job's to figure out how to deal with the consequences.  which you did... you took that sonuvabitch out.
well, not me personally.
on accounta you, sonrisa did not get to buy off the jury, or kill the judge. he is gone.  once and for all.  it was war, max, and you won.
that is what soldiers do, right?
what is this?
open it.
it turned up on the black market.  one of my sources thought i might be interested.
i do not know what to say.
deeds, not words.  i need your help.
forty-seven people drowned last night off the coast of vancouver after paying smugglers twenty thousand apiece to get into canada so they could get work in order to eat.  only they got marched overboard at gunpoint instead.
look, thank you for this but--
these girls, kidnapped during the last month and sold overseas to the highest bidder.  the oldest is twelve.  the youngest about the same age you were when you escaped.
and i feel real bad about all that but it does not mean i need to get involved.
you are involved.  by being alive you are involved.
we are quoting mom again.
maybe we got screwed outta living in a time when we could sit in a cafe, sipping our lattes wearing two thousand dollar wrist watches while we plan our next vacation.  but the world got a whole lot meaner all of a sudden.  was not s'posed to, but it did.  and it is back to the law of the jungle.  you got your predators and you got your victims.
and you still think you can do something to change that.
with your help.
civilization as we know it is unraveling before our eyes.  but logan and max, with a song in their hearts are gonna march into battle to keep that from happening.
and whether you want to believe it or not, you already fired the first shot.  on another matter, federal corrections used to keep records on distinguishing marks-- scars, tattoos.  i did a search and came up with this.
that was taken nine years ago... i.d.'d as michael hanover.  sentenced to 18 months in the state penn at rawlins, wyoming for armed robbery.  he escaped from custody after 4 days.  has not been seen or heard from since.
zack... he made it... he is alive...
