ah, what did you say, pinback?
mafhkin oble groop...
ah, what was that again, i still can not hear you?
i said I am trying to reach talby. something is wrong with the damn intercom. i need a last-minute diameter approximation.
talby!
oh! ah, yes, doolittle. what is it?
i need a diameter approximation.
okay, doolittle, I will have it in a minute.
i need a ghf reading on the gravity correction.
I will check it.
i have a reduced drive reading of seven thousand.
right, that checks out here.
pinback...
yes, doolittle.
your ghf reading is minus fifteen.
doolittle...
yes.
i need a computer reading on a fail- safe mark.
in a second.
boiler, can you set me up with some temp figures?
ninety seven million, minus eight, corrected to mass critical.
i read that with a quantum increase of seven.
pinback, i have a computer reading of nine five seven seven.
time to start talking.
well, bomb, we have about sixty seconds to drop. just wondering if everything is all right. have you checked your platinum euridium energy shielding?
energy shielding positive function.
swell. let's synchronize detonation time. do you know when you are supposed to go off?
detonation in six minutes, twenty seconds.
all right, i have detonation time at... wait a minute, something is wrong with the clock.  all right, i have detonation time at... no, that can not be right, it says three years.  okay, i have six minutes exactly. does that check out down there?
check at six minutes.
arm yourself, bomb.
armed.
well, then, everything sounds fine. we will drop you off in thirty-five seconds. good luck.
thanks.
begin main sequence. mark at 10-9-8- 7-6-5-4-3-2-1-drop.
well... now what? what do, you have for us now. boiler?
not much. nothing at all in this sector.
find me something, i do not care where it is.
well, i show a 95% probability of sentient life in the horsehead nebula...
fuck that shit.
well, it is kind of a long shot...
it is a goddamn wild goose chase. remember when commander powell found that 99 plus probability of sentient life in the magellanic cloud?
well, there is the possibility of...
remember what we found? fourteen light years for a fucking mindless vegetable that looked like a limp balloon and went squawk and let a fart when you touched it. remember?
all right, then...
so do not give me any of that sentient life crap. find me something i can blow up.
new star.  hey, guess what? i got a new star on the readout.
which one?
another unknown. not on the charts. a red dwarf.
any planets?
yeah. eight, it says here.
any of 'em any good?
naah. all stable.
what are you gonna name it?
what?
the new star. what are you gonna name it?
who cares. do not bother me.
commander powell would have named it.
commander powell is dead.
come on, doolittle, give it a name.
fred.
wha?
i hereby name this star fred.
hey, doolittle, here's one. an unstable planet. 85% probability of an unstable planet in the veil nebula that will probably go off its orbit and hit a star.
sounds good. chart a course for the veil nebula.
pinback, throw me the chart log.
you know, talby, you really ought to eat with the rest of us. you spend too much time up here.
i like it up here.
must get lonely being up here so much.
i do not like to go below since commander powell died. i feel enclosed down there. if it were big enough, I would sleep up here...
...should spend some time below, see more of the rest of the ship...
...you see, i can watch things up here, doolittle. i love to watch things, just stare at the planets and meteors and asteroids, gas clusters...
you will have plenty of time for that, you know. figure it this way: twenty years in space and we have only aged three, so there'll be plenty of time to stare around...
you know, doollttle, if we are going into the veil nebula, we may actually find a strange and beautiful thing: the phoenix asteroids. they should be passing through there about now...
phoenix asteroids? never heard of 'em.
they are a body of asteroids that make a complete circuit of the universe once every 12.3 trillion years. the phoenix asteroids... from what I have heard, doolittle, they glow... glow with all the colors of the rainbow. nobody knows why. they just glow as they drift around the universe. imagine all the sights they have seen in the time they have been travelling -- the birth and death of stars, things we will never see. the universe is alive, doolittle. i thought it was all empty, but it isn't. in between the stars, it is seething with light and gasses and dust. there are little pebbles drifting around, planets no one on earth has ever seen... no one but the phoenix asteroids...
you know what i think about, talby?
I am getting something here, on this readout...
it is funny, but i kind of sit around, you know, a lot of time to myself...
i think I am getting a malfunction here somewhere.
i can not talk to the others, but with time to myself, i think about back home, back home at malibu. i used to surf a lot, talby. i used to be a great surfer.
lieutenant doolittle, I am getting a definite malfunction on one of the closed-circuit computer systems...
the waves at malibu and zuma were fantastic in the springs talby. i can remember running out on the beach early spring mornings with my board and a wet suit...
i can not seem to locate the malfunction exactly...
waves would be peaking really high and glassy. hit that water. ridin' the wall just perfect.
...somewhere in the autonomic relay circuits...
i guess i miss the waves and my board most of all.
ah, doolittle, i do have a malfunction on this readout, but i can not seem to pinpoint exactly where it is.
do not worry about it. we will find out when it goes bad.
i really think i should try and locate it immediately. might be something important.
i wish i had my board with me now. even if i could only polish it once in awhile.
I am getting this flickering light on one of my panels.
what flickering light?
the one on unit... oh, i think it is gmr twelve zero zero.
oh. what is wrong now?
I am not sure. i think something is fucked up somewhere in the ship, though.
i hope it is not the oven again.
yeah.
remember when the artificial gravity, went out in the toilet?
hey, doolittle, think we will ever find real intelligent life out there?
out where?
veil nebula.
who cares?
lieutenant doolittle, this is talby. lieutenant?
yes, talby, what is it?
sorry to interrupt your lunch, sir, but I am in the computer room, and i think I have located the malfunction. the scanner shows it to be some sort of fault in the communications laser, down by the emergency air lock. can not pinpoint it exactly, but I am going down there with a starsuit and try to find it.
sounds good, talby. let me know if anything important comes up.
why does not talby ever eat down here with the rest of us?
he just likes it up in the dome, that is all.
there she is. definite 99%-plus probability that the planet is going to deviate from its normal orbit in another twelve thousand rotations. it will spiral in toward its sun, and --
eventual supernova.
fail safe in lock. four minutes to drop, 22 minutes to detonation. this is sergeant pinback calling bomb #20. do you read me, bomb?
bomb #20 to sergeant pinback. roger, i read you, continue.
ah, lieutenant doolittle? sir?
sh, talby, do not bother me now.
ah, well, i think I have found the malfunction, sir. I am in the emergency air lock...
not now!
well, I am in the emergency air lock and --
one hundred twenty seconds to drop, bomb, have you checked your platinum euridium energy shielding?
energy shielding positive function.
do you remember the detonation time?
detonation in twenty minutes.
right, that synchronizes here. okay, bomb, arm yourself.
armed.
everything sounds fine, bomb. dropping you off in sixty seconds. good luck.
thanks.
quantum is up thirty-five.
i read the same here.
mark at 5-4-3-2-1-drop.
ah, negative drop.
rechannel all safety relays --
-- open quantum latches --
-- open circuit breakers --
-- remove thrust drive repellant --
-- automatic channels open --
-- remark.
5-4-3-2-1-drop, drop, drop!
this is lieutenant doolittle calling bomb #20. i repeat previous order, you are to disarm yourself and return immediately to the bomb bay. do you understand?
i am programmed to detonate in fourteen minutes thirty seconds. detonation will occur at the programmed time.
bomb, this is doolittle. you are not to detonate, repeat, you are not to detonate in the bomb bay. disarm yourself. this is an order.
i read you, lieutenant doolittle, but i am programmed to detonate in fourteen minutes. detonation will occur at the programmed time.
commander powell, this is doolittle. ah, there is something serious come up, sir, and i have to ask you something.
I am glad you have come to talk with me, doolittle. it is been so long since anyone has come to talk with me.
commander, sir, we have a big problem. you see, the veil nebula bomb, bomb number 20, is stuck. it will not drop from the bomb bay. it refuses to listen and plans to detonate in --  -- less than eleven minutes.
doolittle, you must tell me one thing.
what is that, sir?
tell me, doolittle, how are the dodgers doing?
well, sir, the dodgers broke up, disbanded over thirteen years ago.
ah... pity, pity...
you do not understand, sir, we can not get the bomb to drop.
ah, so many malfunctions... why do not you have anything nice to tell me when you activate me? oh, well, did you try the azimuth clutch?
yes sir. negative effect.
what was that, doolittle?
negative effect.
it did not work?
that is correct, sir.
sorry, doolittle. I have forgotten so much since I have been in here. so much.
what should we do, sir? the time is running out.
well, what you might try is --
commander powell? commander, hello!
doolittle, hello?
sorry, sir, you faded out there for a minute.
sorry.
what were you saying, commander, about the bomb?
ah... it seems to me, doolittle... sorry, I have drawn a blank. hold it. I will have it again in a minute. i forget so many things in here, so many things. hold on, just a minute, let me think...
but you can not explode in the bomb bay. it is foolish. you will kill us all. there is no reason for it.
i am programmed to detonate in nine minutes. detonation will occur at the programmed time.
you will not consider another course of action, for instance just waiting around awhile so we can disarm you?
no.
i can tell, the damn thing just does not understand.
look, bomb...
commander? are you still there?
oh, yes, doolittle, I am thinking.
we are running out of time, sir.
oh, yes... well, doolittle, if you can not get it to drop you will have to talk to it.
sir?
talk to the bomb.
i already have, sir, and pinback is talking to it now.
no, no, doolittle, you talk to it. teach it phenomenology, doolittle.
sir?
phenomenology...
hello, bomb, are you with me?
of course.
are you willing to entertain a few concepts?
i am always receptive to suggestions.
fine. think about this one, then: how do you know you exist?
what is he doin'?
i think he is talking to it.
well of course i exist.
but how do you know you exist?
it is intuitively obvious.
intuition is no proof. what concrete evidence do you have of your own existence?
hmm... well, i think, therefore i am.
that is good. very good. now then, how do you know that anything else exists?
my sensory apparatus reveals it to me.
right!
this is fun.
all right now, here's the big question: how do you know that the evidence your sensory apparatus reveals to you is correct?
what I am getting at is this: the only experience that is directly available to you is your sensory data. and this data is merely a stream of  electrical impulses which stimulate your computing center.
in other words, all i really know about the outside universe relayed to me through my electrical connections.
exactly.
why, that would mean... i really do not know what the outside universe is like at all, for certain.
that is it.
intriguing. i wish i had more time to discuss this matter.
why do not you have more time?
because i must detonate in seventy- five seconds.
the key!
key? key? what is the key?
no, no, the key, the key to the fail- safe lock!
key?
where is the fail-safe key?
the key!
where is it? what did you do with it?
i do not have it. i do not know where it is.
you must have it, you idiot, we can stop the bomb!
now, bomb, consider this next question, very carefully. what is your one purpose in life?
to explode, of course.
and you can only do it once, right?
that is correct.
and you would not want to explode on the basis of false data, would you?
of course not.
well then, you have already admitted that you have no real proof of the existence of the outside universe.
yes, well...
so you have no absolute proof that sergeant pinback ordered you to detonate.
i recall distinctly the detonation order. my memory is good on matters like these.
yes, of course you remember it, but what you are remembering is merely a series of electrical impulses which you now realize have no necessary connection with outside reality.
true, but since this is so, i have no proof that you are really telling me all this.
the key, goddamit, the key!
christ, twenty seconds, christ!
where is the key?
we are going to die, boiler. we are going to die.
that is all beside the point. the concepts are valid, wherever they originate.
hmmm...
so if you detonate in...
...nine seconds...
...you may be doing so on the basis of false data.
i have no proof that it was false data.
you have no proof that it was correct data.
it did not go off.
oh, god...
it did not go off.
boiler, we are alive. my heart.
we have got to disarm the bomb.
doolittle, are you there?
I am coming in now. I am down by the emergency air lock. too much trouble to come in the ventral lock. would you blow the seal on the emergency hatch so i can come in?
oh, sure.
hello, pinback, are you there?
yeah, doolittle. what is up?
talby was in the air lock. you blew him out of the ship. I am going after him. turn on his helmet radio so i can contact him.
what was that, i did not hear...
it is talby. he is drifting away from the ship without his jetpack.
talby, talby, can you read me?
can you beat that? i always knew talby was weird.
talby, can you read me?
you are false data.
huh?
therefore, i shall ignore you.
hello, bomb.
false data can act only as a distraction. therefore. i shall refuse to perceive you.
hey, bomb.
the only thing which exists is myself.
bomb?
doolittle! help me.
calm down, talby. I am coming.
snap out of it, bomb.
in the beginning there was darkness, and the darkness was without form and void.
what the hell?
yoo hoo, bomb...
hey, bomb...
and i saw that i was alone.
doolittle, doolittle, where are you?
here i am. i think I am spinning... we are both falling, talby, in opposite directions, away from each other. my -- my jetpack's gone.
what happened, doolittle?
bomb must have gone off inside the ship. nothing we can do about it now. hey, it looks like... the skipper. he made it. commander powell made it!
men... men... what happened, men?
yeah, the skipper always was lucky.
looks like I am headed for the planet, talby. going right toward it.
when you fall, doolittle, if there is anyone down there on the planet, somebody may see you. they may see you coming down. what a beautiful way to die... as a falling star...
guess you are right.
oh yeah?
doolittle... i think it is the phoenix asteroids!
phoenix?
it is, doolittle, it is the phoenix! they glow with all the colors of the rainbow, just like everybody said.
no kidding?
I am going into them, I am going to hit them. doolittle...
yeah?
before we get too far away, and our signals start to fade, i just wanted to tell you... you were my favorite. i really liked you, doolittle.
i really liked you too, talby. hey, some debris from the ship! it is coming right by me.
