dios mia.
i tol' him. i tol' him this is a dead place. like all the others.
tony....tony....
pull in! get the others.
help me get him to the boat.
leave him.
aaaaaaah...my god...my god...i am heartily sorry...for having offended thee....offended thee...
shhhhh....tony. rest, rest.
i detest all my sins...because... because of thy just punishment... because of thy...just...punish...
nooooooooo!
...but most of all because...they offend thee, my god...who art all good...and deserving...deserving of all my love...
he is dying. he knows it.
you are dying, too.
no. the disease was cut away from me. i will live. i will live.
prayers have no power to save. the knife can save. it can cut the disease away. the bullet. it can shatter the brain where the evil takes seed. these are saviours...our new saviours...our only saviours.
we must wait. one day the curse will pass. one day a dead man will... will...
one day a dead man will refuse to return, and that man will be a saint. the first saint of our century. that is a prayer, too. a catechism. something the priests tell us to believe.
you can believe this, miguel. I will kill you if you shoot. we must wait. i'll....i'll do it....i'll do it myself....when it needs to be done.
no. you will not be able to do it. he will rise. he will rise and you... you will die.
his madness....could be from shock.
no. i did not stop the infection in time. i know.  do not worry. when he dies, i will not be like maria. I will shoot him.
what is it?
i dunno. landing pad for a helicopter? i dunno.
it is some kind of....elevator. there must be something under the ground here....maybe....military.
look.
what do we do? let'em know we are here....or what?
let's just....wait a minute. get a better look.
it can not be. are we truly in hell?
come on.
please...senor...destroy me...one bullet...please.
maybe. we will have a little talk first. then....maybe...i can help you out. string him up.
please....shoot me.
and if i don't? if i do not you will come back after your death. you will come back and find yourself hanging there...wanting to eat...needing to eat human flesh. you hate that thought, do not you? that is the ultimate sin for most of you fools, is not it?
after hanging up there a few days you will be mad for food...crazed! you will lust for it! you will be worse than any of them!
no...nooooooo...shoot me! shoot me! shooooooooot meeeeeeeee!!!
I will bargain with you. how many of you are on the island?
two of us...only two of us...me...and him.
i do not believe you, rebel. where are your headquarters? on the mainland?
the mainland...is dead...a dead place...nobody there...
where are your headquarters, rebel? tell me or I will let you hang there forever...forever!
there are no...headquarters. there are no...rebels. only the walking dead. do not you see. they have won.
then why did you come here?
to look...look for a place...a place to live in...an empty place...a... new...place...
how did you know we were on this island? do others know? will others come?
nooooo. believe me. there are no others...no rebels...nobody...it's over...it's ooooo....
where are you going, tyler?
my..."detail", sir. we are going to bury the heads.
no time for that. I will take care of them.
just....following procedure, sir. they are entitled to burial.
i said, I will take care of them. just leave them there. go help with the rest of the gear.
step up here, tyler.
sir!
you fired that shot, did not you?
no, sir.
let me see your weapon.
it is been fired.
in the battle, sir.
bees. that is what we call the dead... the walking dead...here on gasparilla's island.
gasparilla?
he was a pirate who sailed these waters long ago. his name is bein' borrowed these days by the long lost henry dickerson.
governor dickerson? of florida?
that is the man. he is been holed up here ever since the shit hit the fan. him and his family owned these islands 'round here. they was leasin' this one to the fed. the whole underneath is dug out. there was missiles here and laboratories and bomb proof housing, nuclear power, all o' that. now this is dickerson's....gasparilla's... private fortress. him and a bunch o' his cronies from all the best golf courses in tallahassee...and his private army, of course.
we ran up against a platoon of soldiers. there were actually walking dead...in uniform...with guns.
captain rhodes and his red coat bees. they could sting, sister. we know you came up against 'em. we been watchin' you since you landed. could not help. I am sorry for that. we am not supposed to be outside. if we was spotted it could....well, it could be the end of everything.
thanks. i can fight my own battles.
i know you can. like i said, we been watchin' you.
the man i was with...until today... believed that praying was for blind men who could not see the truth.
how we gonna break the curse without a prayer or two.
curse?
what is it if it am not a curse?
it is a disease. it is a...a bug...a parasite that infects the brain.
that sounds like a curse to me.
we thought we were escaping here. we thought we would found an uninhabited island. christ! this place is a worse nightmare than anything I have seen yet!
I am sure that is true, miss. and that is why we are doin' what we are doin'. what is happenin' underground here is just what lucifer planned for this sinful race o' man. but we are going to beat lucifer. we are going to put an end to what is happenin' here.
oh, what did i run into? a bunch o' jesus nuts? religiosos? prayer will not stop a bullet from one of those storm troopers and prayer will not keep one of those monsters from eatin' your liver for lunch.
that is why we did not use prayers on this here white coat 'til after he was destroyed. we ready to fight when we have to. and we got to fight now.
look. i been fightin', mister. i been fightin' for what feels like a hundred years and I am finished. i do not need religion. i do not need prayers. i need a couple guns and a couple hands. we can sail on outa here. find another island where there am not so much....traffic.
you think you can find your boat? there is a thousand little inlets and backwaters all through here. you remember all the ways you turned to get where you are now? you leave yourself a trail?
i can find it myself. i did not come that far.
farther than you think. you will get lost. you will. and there is bees all through the jungle. i am not lyin' to ya. religiosos do not lie.
no. they just try to hold you for ransom. fuck you, moses! I am outa here!
come, come, miss science. you have seen worse.
god....damn you, rhodes!
god has damned us all. are my atrocities worse than yours?
you have ruined weeks of work here! we have been trying to wean these specimens onto alligator meat!
no wonder they are so....hungry.
i did not realise! those were de-caps! i did not know that....de-caps... revived!
any dead whose brains are intact will revive.
but...we bury the heads. oh. god! it must be torture for them!
they are brutes without feeling. though i admit that I have requested cremation for myself. burial is an archaic tradition, even more ridiculous now than it ever was. to say nothing of the...spacing problem...on a small island like this.
i thought the purpose of decapitation was to...to...
the purpose of decapitation is to preserve as much...food...as possible. the purpose for feeding is to keep the beasts on our side. the fact that they can be taught to clean up our garbage or to fire a gun is a convenient side benefit, not the primary goal. the primary goal is to keep ourselves from becoming their supper. keep them fed and they behave. keep them hungry and they revert back to being the animals that they have always been. you saw them in there.
you gave them a fresh taste of blood!
they will never be satisfied with anything else, miss henried. they want human flesh. I am prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to see to it they do not get mine! not while I am still using it!
you can not run away from the planet, miss science. you can not even run away from the island, heh heh.
leave me alone, you...cocksucker!!!
you're....you're disgusting! you're....filth!
and you are the one who builds the bomb and they says, 'i hope it will never actually be used'.
julie grant is a behaviouralist. she is not medical. she has not been as...exposed to...to things...as some of the rest of us. she will be alright. I will talk to her. she will be alright.
oh, i have no doubt.
if you put her on the shit list because of her reaction here tonight I will go to dickerson.
ah, yes, our noble gasparilla does seem to favour you lately. i understand he assigned you a roommate of your choice. the rest of us have to pick names out of a hat.
rhodes, you and i had a roll in the hay together when i first got here. it was a wholly unsatisfying experience which i do not want to, and which i never will repeat! so give up, mister! I am going home...to that roommate you mentioned.
i had an unfortunate little run-in with him today. in fact...you might say that mr. tyler is in big trouble with the...authorities.
you better not mess with me, rhodes. I would love to serve your balls to those red coats for lunch! think about it!
no, miss science. you are the one who needs to do some thinking.
toby...thank god...wait here. i got to find out what is goin' on.
hey. slow down. what is it?
some of rhodes' men. at the door.
that bastard. i did not think he would make his move so fast.
it is because of me.
oh, bullshit, mary. it is because rhodes is a prick.
i want you to leave. then maybe...
we are both going to leave. leave the island. I have been talkin' to tricks. we think we can smuggle out one of those inflatable rafts. they are crated up real small. they have got air canisters. there is food inside. even a little motor.
i am not...a guerilla fighter, toby. I am not a pioneer. I am not...i'm not strong that way. i need...
need what? civilised order like we have down here? christ!
i can work here. maybe my work can help...help everyone. i can do more good with access to this equipment than i can off in some wasteland.
for the good of mankind. that is what every monster-maker says.
mary.
I will have somebody is ass for this. I will have your ass, soldier. I am not going to stand here and...
mary!
what is it?
the tunnel.
are you alright, doc? you look... you look real bad.
i have looked bad for four years. everyone in the world has looked bad for four years. thank god looks do not matter as much as they once did.
they seem to be havin' a good time. some punishment.
you disappear in here, darlin'. you get a knife in yer belly or too much shit in yer veins. you get lost out here and nobody's going to notice. rhodes, he counts on that. it all makes for food in the freezers.
well, miss henried, what a coincidence. you are just in time fer a case that seems ta concern you. guess you did not care about the other proceedin's we been dealin' with here this mornin'.
I am sorry. i was...busy. in the lab.
well, you managed ta make it here jus' in time fer this case, did not ya?
sir. in the matter of the state versus private tyler, i do not want to...
sir, tyler is innocent of any crime against the state. captain rhodes is...
miss henried, i think you better...
...captain rhodes is trying to...
miss henried, shut the hell up!!!
sir. it is quite clear that...
shut up, miss henried! i tol' ya b'fore!
this is a travesty! captain rhodes is...
siddown, young lady! i done yup a shit-load o' favours and i am not never yet asked fer nothin' in return! now how did you like ta spend two weeks up t'the vegetable farm yerself? that is what it will be if ya do not siddown an' shut the hell up!
now i think captain's punishment is fair, considerin'. in fact i think you am not got shit ta complain about.
I am sorry, general, if i...spoke out of turn. it is just that...mr tyler is not here to defend himself. he has no representation. i do not believe due process is being served by...
listen, missy. i am the only due process that has ta be served aroun' tyere and one of the people doin' the servin' from now on is going to be you. now you been prancin' aroun' the cave like yer ass was glass fer long enough! all that is
going to change, young lady. now if you still got a statement you would like ta make, you can jus' hold onto it 'til tonight.
tonight?
that is right. 'bout eight, if that suits. we will start out in my gymnasium an' progress on from there...to various other forms o' physical therapy.
the great state of florida. people came here fer years ta die. retire and expire. the rest o' the country used ta think we was nothin' but a bunch o' farts and fogies. hah! now this here's the new capital o' the world! hah! they came here...died...went to hell...and the devil sent 'em back as an army. hah! general gasparilla's army...my army!
we think there are other cities surviving. we think maybe detroit... there is some signalling out of philly.
there is no place like this place. warm climate. this facility. christ, there am not nothin' like this no-damn-where! even the feds knew that. that is why they stored so much o' their shit down here. it is all mine now. all mine. just let 'em try ta come after us down here, which they will some day...take a likin' ta what all we got an' come after us. they will hafta get past my army! an army that am not afraid ta die...ha ha ha...'cause it is awreddy daid! ha ha ha ha....
it is not a very big army. and small as it is you will not be able to continue feeding it for very long. we have got to find ways of getting them to respond without relying on...
you will find the ways, miss mary. and when ya do...we'll sail on over to the mainland...or any other damn mainland fer that matter...and start us a recruitin' program. there is millions o' bees out there jus' waitin' fer' a general ta lead 'em on ta vict'ry!
let me go! I am the one he wants. this is all happening because of me. if i turn myself in...
he is just finding another reason for bumpin' us off. do not ya see. he needs us ta die. he needs our bodies.
it is alright. I am a friend. i need help and so do you. what is a safe place to talk?
am not no place safe.
look...i know you have no reason to trust me. I have got friends in the cave. i got some stuff comin' out this mornin'. I am going to try to get off the island.
I am going to have this stuff sent over to the hospital...
the hospital?
yeah. my stuff's all marked with red crosses so nobody gets too nosey. meet me at the hospital after the supplies come in. maybe we can find a place there to talk.
maybe.
hey, tricks. some detail they got you on.
not as bad as yours, pal.
what'dya get?
rafts. two 38s. a little ammo.
we need fuel, and a couple automatics.
what'dya tell that soldier, soldier? you tell him we was rebels?
he is my contact for chrissake! there is two crates. can you get me into the hospital?
there ya go. complete with air canisters...little motors.
we got a boat.
what?
i say we got a boat. can you get other stuff?
i got some fuel comin' out and, i hope, some automatic rifles.
it will not work. that is pure nitro you are dealin' with there. that stuff can blow if you look at is funny. what are you going to do, walk into the cave carryin' those tubes on feather pillows? you do not have a complete layout of the place. even if you manage to avoid a fight you will not know where to go.
we are hopin' you can show us where ta go, toby.
oh, no. I am tryin' to get off this island alive. I will help you all i can but I am not goin' in there on a suicide mission. what can you hope to accomplish? some radios maybe? a supply room or two? you will all be killed and in a few weeks they will be back to business as usual. that place was built to withstand nuclear attack! what are you going to do with a half-dozen guns and a few sticks of nitro?
we are going to blow up the powder magazine.
what?
we know what is down there. we did the loading' and unloadin' when the stuff came ashore in the early days. a direct hit oughta do more than a few weeks worth o' damage.
a direct hit'll blow the top off this whole island! how're you going to fuse the stuff? how're you going to leave yourself time to get out?
toby's right. they are not going to sit around with their fingers up their asses while we bust up their toys.
datura.
what?
datura metel. the devil's trumpet. do not worry. i am not goin' religioso again. it is a flower that grows on these islands. where i come from the voodoo priests used it whenever they needed a mickey finn. it is toxic. ground up you can put it in a drink or inject it...or...in a sealed area it might be introduced through the ventilation system.
datura! miguel knew it! datura, he was shouting! datura metel!
we always planned to use it. we got some ground up already...but we could never find enough.
there is hundreds of 'em. right where we landed our boat.
this stuff really works? no shit?
quicker than gas. and it smells a lot prettier. it usually do not kill but it puts ya under fer a good night's sleep.
if you could knock out the central communications room you could foul up their whole intercom system. then, if you move fast enough, stay ahead of 'em...without bein' able to signal each other, they might have a hard time catchin' you.
i say it is poetic. pure calypso, brother. the devil's trumpet blowin' the notes o' doom for the devil's troops. ha ha ha ha ha...
looks like just two. we can take 'em when the time comes.
we are only about a quarter-mile from cave entrance number five.
that entrance is closest to the labs and the bee cages.
come on. let's go.
i know it hurts. but it will not be long. then all the pain will be over. oh, i wish you could hear me. god, give her the ears to hear me so she knows i do not want her to hurt so!
quiet!
oh, yes. quiet. yes. we must be quiet.
that is the general alarm. jesus! they musta got in!
what you wanna do?
come on!
you would hold us back. we have to go on.
hmmmmmm? oh, yes. go on.
tricks...jesus...
I am alright. let's go.
what is it?
it's...he was...one who came to the island with me.
how long do we have to watch him?
forever, darlin'. forever. 'til he turns ta dust and blows away on the wind.
