can we use our indoor voice please...
I am flying blind here god damn it!
if i told you once...i told you a thousand times...
i know...i know...if the cash is there we do not care...  finnegan this is as mean a pile of shit as we ever carried...
you remember the first time we met finnegan? i think you were just starting out...smuggling gold off sumatra for those two chinese...what did we use to call them?
fok yu and fok yu two...are we strolling down memory lane for any particular reason?
no, it just struck me as odd...i do not see you for all these years and you have still got the same tape stuck in the box.
you know what they say...the classics are eternal.
right here...middle of nowhere...
and where is our point of arrival?
right here...middle of nowhere...and the answer to your question is yes.
which question is that?
the one you came up to ask...are we on schedule?
take note mr. mason...this is why you hire a professional...no whining. no excuses.
do not mind him finnegan...you remember 25...balls of steel... splashing around in a sea of testosterone.
i do not mind him...but i do think it is time for him to get back down below with the rest of the playgroup.
you know what my goal is? before i die i want to make love to a woman from every country on earth.
you mean countries that are acknowledged by the un...or like made up countires too?
what the hell does that mean?
like mamooli's country...
this is not right finnegan. I have got a contract.
20 hours on the clock. out and back. double for overtime.
and no questions asked.
who asked any?
he did...with a crowbar...you know the rules on a broken contract.
i know it...but you want to get where you want to get, and back? i need a chief engineer, and unless you got a replacement, I would highly recommend overlooking the indescretion.
here's what i think...i think these mokes below are a hit sqaud.
i saw these guy perform...at altmont ...you know that? they opened for the stones...
...jagger was here...i was here...
you do not give a shit about anything do you?
sure i do...i give a shit that at 0300 hour we reach our point of dentination. i give a shit that those mojos got to do what they got to do, and 45 minutes later we are turn around and gone. i give a shit that by the time the sun comes up we are all safely tucked in bed.
that is it? that is all you give a shit about?
oh yeah...and that my stich job does not make you uglier than you already are...this will not hurt a bit...
what did you do the my kids!!
me??
no! the man in the moon!! who is driving this thing?
speedboat in the middle of the ocean...
how soon can we get up and running?
we can't...we got one engine dead, and the other limping badly.
i have a schedule...
we were talking about my schedule...
you are going to have to get a new one.
not an option.
then you better start swimming.
i think he knows that joey.
good! so maybe he also know where the hell am i going to get the parts i need...
great woman your mother. real foresight.
and she could do a hell of a barbie to boot! belt up. you will find all the parts you need up there.
i assume somebody up there has made sure no distress signal can be sent.
I would say that is a pretty good assumption.
i thought the plan was we would evacuate them after we got through.
maybe plans changed...
plans do not change...
maybe it is the wrong ship.
shut up!
let's just keep going.
you am not giving the orders here!
you know what I am going to do after this...i'm going to get a normal life...
joey...
...like a house in the suburbs... maybe a couple of kids...some sort of business...be in the bowling league...go to the ball games...
joey...it's okay...
what? you do not think i can have a normal life?
joey...look at me...
it is okay...come on...
I am stuck...
hey! what are you trying to pull!
john...
the hulls of these things are supposed to be impregnable...
so?
so...if the hull's impregnable why are my feet wet?
why do not you just stop figuring and keep working so we can get the hell out of here?
why do not you help us so we can get done faster so we can get the hell out of here?
'cause grease monkey am not in my job description dick head...
what was that?
nothing.
someone is back there.
hey! come out here!
check it out!
hey! you hear me? come out!
I am not screwing around with you man...i hate the cold water.
what is it man?
I am looking...
do not shoot, man, do not shoot!
what happened to vivo?! what the hell happened to vivo?
or maybe not.
where is everybody?
i mean...where is everbody?
poolside?
you tell it straight or i pull the trigger. who are you?
a passenger...
hanover!! hanover!!
forget them...
shut up! you hear me!!
...we gotta get outta here -- now.
shut up, man, just shut the hell up! i gotta think! i gotta think!!
what is there to think about?? that thing back there...
there am not no thing here!! no thing!! there is you him and me!! got it! you him and...
finnegan, what the hell was that?
i do not know...you got what we need?
if i don't, i am not going back to get it...you think we are safe?
I am not staying here!
it am not any better out there!
now look what you did!
i saved your life is what i did!
who asked you to!
what other bunch?
the thieves.
I am not a thief.
then who are you?
I am their ride.
where are my men?
dead.
where are you going?
nowhere...
hanover, listen...
shut up!
now, where is mulligan? where is vivo?
i told you...
shut up! shut up all of you! now here's what we are doing... mamooli is going to take you back to fix your engines, chin and i are staying here to finish the job...
did you clear this?
with who?
you the captain?
yes.
how do we get out of here?
we have to make it to the third deck...
who are you?
he is the owner...
why do not you want a message sent?
unless you collected on the insurance...
what are you people talking about?
he is with them.
it is not going to help us!
we are going to die here! we are going to die!
i was born in a city housing project in the bronx ok? it is not in the cards that i die on a luxury cruise ship...now which way up?
you hear that?
they are...they are everywhere.
all right, be cool, everybody, nice and slow, no sudden moves.
noooo!
jesus christ lady...
what are those things?
i do not know...
hey! hey! where are you going?
...there's got to be a way to access out back there...
but what makes you think there are not more of those...things...back there?
nothing...you want to come, come... you don't...
you do not have to be so touchy.
look lady, i know you people are used to getting your way...
what is that supposed to mean? you people.
you people...rich people...
I am not rich people.
well, you sure do a good imitation.
thank you, i work at it...
so this boat of yours...that's what you do? give people...rides.
that is what i do.
seen a lot of islands?
quite a few.
since I am a kid, i had this dream... i want to own my own tropical island... beaches, warm ocean, lots of food, little clothes...population of one...
anti social?
self sufficient...
with the emphasis on self, and in selfish, right?
takes one to know one.
i do not know where it is!
on the side!!
got it?
hey! i did not have to come back.
yeah you did...
right... you have a boat.
boat or no boat... you woulda come back anyway. you are that kind of gal.
oh yeah? what kind is that?
the "come back" kind.
how do you know that?
takes one to know one.
joey... which way's aft?
that way.
who gives a shit about aft?
that is where my boat's moored.
you trying to take over my show finnegan, that what you trying to do?
just trying to get to my boat...
why do not you back off?
you want some too?
who?
someone...maybe they sent an sos!
we do not even know if his boat is still there...you saw billy!
boat or no boat...i'm going...
nobody's shooting nobody...come on, just let us through the hatch!
I will kill you!! I will fucking kill you!! I will do it! I will do it! I am not playin' around here!
i once saw a guy put a fish in a bottle, then he corked it, sealing it tight, and threw it to a baby octopus. the little sucker felt its way around that bottle, and in less than two minutes, got that cork off, slid inside, and ate that fish.
what the hell are you talking about?
us...i'm talking about us... we are the fish.
and what? these things are octopusses?
i do not know what these things are ...all i know is...
like cattle...
you are saying they can think?
I am saying they are calling the shots...
what is the matter?
the quiet...
maybe we lost them.
or maybe we are exactly where they want us to be.
what is it?
a meat locker.
we can not just leave them here.
looking good...
you should talk...
so how do you get from the bronx to the south china sea?
you quit high school, lie about your age, join the navy, and next thing you know, four years are up and you need a way to make a living...
i was so goddamn close, finnegan! so goddamn close to my island... i could almost taste the sand...
keep tasting...
it is not them...it's it...
what?
you know what kind of force it took to rip open the bow of this ship? a million little things like this...
oh my god! oh my god! how do we do it? how do we get there?
not like him.
finnegan...
yeah...
...the minute you start your engines ...it's goint to kill us, is not it?
there is not much horsepower left in the engines, but there is enough noise...once this baby's set...i'll rev it up...that slimy bastard will come for it like candy...
if you blow up your boat, how are we going to get to the island?
jet ski...there's one left up there.
do not shoot!! do not shoot!!
just the man i wanted to see. on this puppy here, you remember if it is red to blue or blue to red...
not even a joey, I am glad to see you? joey, what happened to your leg?
joey, you want to get sucked out by a giant fucking mutated squid?
red cross over to blue double blue ...is that what it is? a squid?
squid...squid like...squid type... it is got tentacles, a feed sac... probably one central nervous processor somewhere...what the hell do i know is going on deep down in the ocean...there's all sorts of shit we have never seen...eighty foot clams...60 foot sharks...i'm just guessing...can you get me more juice out of hercules...fast?
for juice, i got to rebuild. that is not fast.
how about noise? can you get noise? we do not need speed, just noise, right?
right...
can somebody tell me what the object of the exercise is here?
seafood salad.  you ever operate a jet ski?
you want me to go up there?
not unless you can wire a missle or fix an engine.
and what if i run into one of those things?
I have never seen you so congenial with a mamber of the opposite sex... the two of you got a nice patter going...got a nice rapport...
and you got 10 minutes before this thing livens up a boring evening.
you know what i think? i think our luck has just about run shit out...
a little to the left...
i think we gotta stop floating from one fucked up situation to the next...
line it up now, nice and easy...
I am telling you, man, we got to give the future some serious thought.
i have been.
and what have you come up with?
how does an island sound to you?
man, do not go up there...
one whistle... start the engine...
she is gone...
second whistle you make it to the deck and get ready to jump...
all you are going to do is get yourself killed...and for what? some chick?
you are beautiful what you are jealous, you know that, joey?
i do not mean to drop in unannounced ...you ready...
soon as i get over the heart attack...
three minutes...i'm not back...no matter what...you go...
no...
you do not take orders very well, do you?
i do not take orders at all.
this time, make an exception.
where is you friend?
he is not coming...
was it the water in my eyes or were you guys about to...
joey...
because it is cool, you know, i can always take a walk or something down the beach...
joey...
or i could go for a swim...although, i gotta tell you...if i never get in the water again...
