oh, hi, mom.
now!
jam has yet to do an overnight with us.
i had a nightmare once that something like this might happen. i hope he does not get grounded again. if he misses peter criss's drum solo, i do not know if he will be able to handle it.
jam, listen up.
hawk?
just listen up, man, cause we are in a quandary.
are you on the crapper with one of those antenna phones? sounds like you are taking a dump the size of butte, montana.
it is my bullworker.
anyway, listen up. they are gone!
what is gone?
the kiss tickets, you nimrod! they are just fuckin' gone! please tell me you have'm!
gone!? why would i have the kiss tick...?
just check whatever you were wearing last night. now!
cool.
I am really sorry about that, man.
do not be a fembot. so, are you like grounded because of last night, or what?
of course, but has that ever stopped me before? besides, my mom's going to some church meeting and will not be back till late. no sweat... see you guys in school.
poor, jam, man. imagine having to stash your kiss records inside carly simon album covers. no question, mrs. bruce is a psycho-bitch from hell.
you are one to talk, lex. your mom's a fuckin' dyke.
trip, a female gynecologist does not a lesbian make. and even if it did, at least my mom did not give birth to me while she was on lsd.
shrooms! and even if it was lsd, i can still give my mom a kiss without smelling the catch of the day.
trip, you fuckin' asshole.
what?
jeremiah, what are you doing?
uhh... nothing.
ahh, sunshine.
you are going to be late if you do not hurry up and change soon.
change? what is wrong with what i got on?
it is dirty laundry for one thing and for another, you still have not worn the clothes i bought you. you are skating on thin ice already, young man, so i would not push my luck. now get out of those rags.
but, mom!
besides, those jeans are so tight i can see your penis.
they are not idiots.
now do not forget you are on the honor system tonight. I will be home a little after one and if you have been partying or playing that satanic kiss music... well, need i remind you of the consequences?
grounded for the rest of the year?
you are a smart boy, jeremiah. and so handsome.
will somebody please tell those chicks disco is dead.
stellas. i hate stellas almost as much as i hate dogs.
yeah, right. she wishes. look at that big ass.
you know what they say about a big ass... big shit.
shit, that dork is jam.
yo, doofus!
yeah, she gives you shit and you take it.
okay, enough. enough. gimme the tickets. i wanna hold onto them.
they are still at my house in trip's jacket.
they are what?
she was standing right over me when i was changing for fuck's sake.
that is some sick shit right there. did she comb your ass hair for you too?
if your mom so much as smells those tickets, they are history, and we get screwed outta seeing kiss for the third year in a row, the third year!
do not worry about it. they are perfectly safe. we can pick them up after school. my mom will not be home. it is no problem.
all right. after school we double- time it to your house for the tix before heading to the train station for the 2:45 to detroit rock city.
check.
no problem.
thanks.
sorry.
it is okay.
jeremiah?
yeah?
i made an appointment with father phillip mcnulty at st. bernard's. we are to see him directly where he will register you on the spot.
you mean, you are sending me to... b- b-boarding school?
what else can i do? oh, records and magazines and comic books are one thing, but tickets? tickets? jeremiah, do you realize what this means? that you are no longer content merely hearing their awful songs or looking at photos of their horrific faces! now you want to see the devil in the flesh. you want to reach out and touch pure evil... and in detroit no less!
i knew it! i knew this was gonna happen! i had a bad feeling since last night. remember? we are so totally fucked!
waitaminit, dudes! i got it! maybe we can glue the tickets back together!
what are you, high?
yeah.
for once lex is right. it is over. things can not get any worse from here.
second floor girls' john! two minutes! he will never look there!
check!
hey, take it easy, man. this is the girls' crapper, remember?
wake up, lex! we just watched jam's mom torch our fuckin' kiss tickets! not reo speedwagon! not journey! not the bay city rollers! kiss! if you can think of a better reason to trash a bathroom, I would sure like to hear it!
trip, it is not the end of the world, okay? quit acting all squeezed out.
oh, everything's hunky-dory now that the shit hit the fan just like you said it would, you snug sonofabitch! you fuckin' jinxed us!
smug, trip! not snug, smug.
that is sherry vanhafton.
I have been in love with her since the second grade.
whoa... she just farted.
i have never heard a girl squeeze cheese in my entire life.
weird...
someday you will have a son just like you, jeremiah. a boy who lies through his teeth, buys demonic records, and smokes the dope just like you.
if I am anything like you, I will deserve him.
what?!
i said, I am sorry!
if you truly are sorry, son, then you better pray like you have never prayed before. god willed me to find those tickets because he wanted to hear from you.  he knows you need help and he wants you to ask him for it.
wonder if you could smoke shit out of this?
maybe some tunage'll chase those blues away.
too bad we are stuck in electronics or...
never mind with the too bad shit. i got a crazy plan, but only the craziest among us can pull it off.
i did it! i did it! we won!
we won?!
this is the best thing that ever happened to me at school! not only are we on again for kiss in detroit, but we are actually sitting right at the fifty yard line! i dare you dudes to find a curlier scenario.
stan lee could not think of a better one.
the chinese have a proverb: "that which appears too good to be true, usually is." there is got to be a catch.
yeah? i have a saying too, lex. it goes, "catch my jizz in your mouth and stop jinxing us, asshole." we are going this time and that is all there is to it.
namely?
our band "mystery" is a quartet and we can not go on the road without our drummer. jam's mom said something about sending him to st. bernard's, right? we got to bust him out before we go anywhere.
but... but, st. bernard's is way the hell over in the next county!
so? your mom's car has a cb, radar detector and cruise control, check?
we are not stealing my mom's car.
damn straight we are.
hawk, all i need is one ding on the volvo and presto! there are my balls hanging from the rearview mirror after she gets back from cincinnati.
and when is she due back from that groinecologist's convention anyway?
sunday, but...
then lighten up. she will never know we touched it. alright, here's the plan. we bus it to chez lex, grab the volvo, bail jam the hell outta st. bernard's and arrive at the train station precisely on time for the 2:45 to detroit.
simplicity, hawk.
simple-icity is more like it. and you guys thought jam was in trouble before. wait till mrs. bruce finds out he went to that concert with us.
there is only so much trouble an individual can get into till it just does not matter anymore, lex. you familiar with a condition known as absolute zero?
the hypothetical temperature characterized by the absence of heat and even the slightest amount of molecular activity? yeah, I am vaguely familiar
well, jam is in absolute trouble. he could not get any deeper into shit if he was a fly sitting in a horse's ass. you know as well as me he would give his right arm just to see peter criss's drum solo, never mind a whole kiss concert, check?
well, the least we, his only buds in the world, can do is take him along with us tonight and give him one last curl before he starts serving his sentence.
just for the record, i understood the last part of what you said, but for a while there you guys were making no fucking sense whatsoever.
i was just explaining to lex here what you and i already know. just had to make it a little more complicated so he would understand.
very funny, hawk. okay, I am in on this hare-brained scheme, but if anything happens to my mom's car, I am blaming you. I will say you drugged me or something.
curly.
ok, dudes, follow my lead.
wait a minute. we ditching the rest of school?
about fuckin' time if you ask me. I am just going through the motions till i drop out anyway.
hello summer detention.
well, here we are back at fucking school again.
huh. st. bernard's. figures it is named after a canine.
now, how are we gonna do this?
gimme a second, dudes. lemme think.
if he offers you a slice, you are not the least bit hungry, check?
check.
we got you a change of duds when we picked up the car.
next stop: the 2:45 to detroit rock city!
jeezis, hawk, can you at least keep it within twenty miles of the speed limit?
lex, am i going to have to lock you in the trunk till we reach detroit? do not worry, these babies are built for speed.
I am starvin' and it is way past lunchtime.
totally. all I have had for chow was a packet of pop rocks and a yoo-hoo.
let's stop in sandusky, hawk.
what is in sandusky?
pizza, and i been jones-in' for a pizza ever since we left st. bernard's.
eyowch! this is one hot pizza!
trip, huck that out before it stains the upholstery!
do not you think we should at least pull over and offer to clean it off?
what?! are you mentally deranged, jam?
what the fuck!
the paint!
do you realize the sheer, goddamn, unadulterated, undiluted, no holds barred, one hundred percent pure as ivory snow, absolutely friggin' stupidity of what you just did?
hey, disco dude, it is cool...
could be.
and if it am not cleaned off?
are you gettin' wise with me?
no, I am dumber than a goddamn slug. now can i please clean your windshield and leave without further ado?
well, let's recap, shall we? you slapped all of us, yelled at me, used my head for a rag, threw me on the ground and tossed our love gun 8- track under the wheels of a passing semi.  so, if the lesson was that you are a dick with ears and a really bad haircut, then, yes... I would say we learned it.
excuse me, I am a little deef-a- hearin'. can you repeat yourself?
okay. ahem! you. are. a. dick. with. ears. and. a. really. bad. haircut.
oh, yeah...?
how would you like a nice hawaiian punch?
sure.
oh no, jam. I am not falling for that twice.
well, could not you slow down so i can at least state my case, hawk? if you do not like it, you can speed up and I will never mention it again.
oh, great. i just hitched a ride with a bunch of potheads... I am hooking up with some people at this funky place in downtown detroit called disco inferno. mind droppin' me there?
what is it worth to you?
what the hell is that supposed to mean?
it does not mean anything. do not pay attention to him.
disco inferno? disco's infernal morelike.
so, are you, like, gonna polish our nobs, or what?
what? that is disgusting!
tease? what the hell did i do to tease you mongoloids?
you got in the car, did not you?
oh, god, how calculating of me to lead you all on like that after you offered me a ride in the middle of nowhere.
whatever... stella.
you call that john travolta/denny terio shit dancing? i would not dance like that in private if you paid me.
disco blows dogs for quarters.
man, that weed knocked christine on her ass. she is sleeping like a baby stella.
let's lift up her shirt.
hey, look at the front entrance! a car's pulling out. the parking space from heaven. god is surely smiling down upon us tonight, dudes.
kind of funny, i thought he would be pissed as hell at me.
what was that d.j.'s name again?
oh, I will remember it till the day i die. his name was... simpleton the simian? no, samson samoan... no, simply, similar...
simple simon on the rock, go caller.
hello? is this me? I am trip. am i on the air?
i should hang up on you right now, but you are the right caller so answer quick or get your battleship sunk. what are the names of the four members of kiss?
gene klein, stanley eisen, paul frehley, and peter...criscula! yeah, that is it!
is that your final answer?
yeah.
trip? you just got yourself four tickets and four backstage passes to kiss live at cobo hall tonight!
i did?
yeah, you did!
yeeeehaaawww!! this is totally fuckin' curly, man! thank you god!
whoa, easy, trip, this is radio, not "taxi driver." now listen up cause this next part is crucial. stay on the line so we can get your full name, information, and...
really, trip, can we bore holes in your head and use it as a bong so it actually does us some good for a change?
fuck you, lex! this whole thing would not have happened if it was not for you jinxing us. i just made an honest mistake.
oh, I am sorry, trip. what you made was a big, brainless, pile of horse shit. no offense.
guys, guys! come on, if this is anyone's fault, it is mine. i was the one who grabbed trip's jacket by mistake. it is my fault and i apologize.
please, jam, we are trying to vent some hostility here. sure the whole thing may be your fault, but who is going to get pissed off at you?
i have one question. how could a kid who wails on the drums like it is the only thing keeping him alive even think of such a femmy thing to say?
really, jam, you tryin' to make us barf?
uh... dudes?
now there is a woman who totally abuses the privilege of motherhood.
dudes!
it is gone.
i can see that, bright boy. what happened to it?
it was stolen!
christine stole it! asleep, my ass! the stella booted with your mom's wheels.
but we took the keys?
damn, she musta hot wired it. we picked up a professional car thief in the shape of olivia newton-john!
okay, I am just a little mad now! jam, why did you talk us into picking that bitch up in the first place!?
I am sorry, guys. i thought it was a nice thing to do.
jam, not another word out of your femmy-ass mouth! okay, we are here, we got nothing, and we got an hour and a half. we are totally committed. it is time to brainstorm.
here's a suggestion. let's stop worrying about the concert for the time being and get the cops in on this volvo situation.
wake up, lex. this is detroit. the cops are not going to waste city dollars looking for a swedish car. face it, the volvo's on a cutting board as we speak getting sliced, diced, and julienned by christine, the chop shop gourmet.
now listen up. here's the game plan.
...i mean, my mom's got insurance. what is the worst thing she could do? ground me for the entire year? i can handle that...
cool, bro, now listen up...
...holy shit! i am in absolute trouble! i never should have let you drive, man! absolute fuckin' trouble!
okay, shut the fuck up, lex! now, then, step number one, we find us a scalper. i got...  twenty-five.
twenty-five more'n i got.
all i got is five. the rest is in the volvo.
i got...
uh-uh. do not tell us, jam. just show us.
so maybe we got enough for one ticket. fuck!
waitaminit, dudes! i got it! we find four really small kids, beat the shit outta them and steal their tickets. what do you think?
brilliance, trip. sheer brilliance. give albert einstein here the nobel prize.
i think we should try sneaking in.
four dudes sneaking in? we would get busted fer sure. bad plan.
okay, one of us sneaks in, gets four ticket stubs off some kids in the audience, comes back out, and we all "re-enter" the concerto. voila!
still too risky for my money.  we are running out of time here. this is kiss! a victory for one is a victory for the team. I am sure i can barter with a scalper, but if you dudes think you got better plans, go for it. we will reconvene at that intersection...
...at twenty-thirty hours.
one more time in english.
for the next hour and a half it is every dude for himself. try to get at least one ticket and at 8:30 p.m. we will meet over there.
wait! i know how we can get in!
jam, shut-up! you are not allowed to speak, remember? go use whatever femmy idea you have to get yourself a ticket or four. i do not wanna hear it.
but... my plan involves all four of us acting together.
see you at 8:30, jam. later.  dudes? later.
mom, what are we...?
just keep your lying, heathenous trap shut, jeremiah.
dude, this is all i got.
sorry, man, no can do. but I will be here for a while if you scare up the extra gravy.
where the hell am i gonna scare up that kinda gravy in one hour?
the easy way.
you look a little scrawny, but it is worth a shot.
i can not just walk in and take my clothes off. it is embarrasskin.
guess you do not want to see the greatest show on earth. and in detroit no less. well, take care, chief.
dude, if it were dancing the way fred astaire did it, I would give it my best shot. I would learn the steps and practice in my spare time. but this... tribal, ritualistic bullshit, it is way-too-spontaneous for me.
yeah, you are probably too young anyhow.
hey, i invented fake i.d.s, alright. that is not the problem... they are playing disco music in there, man.
chief, here's a little secret. drink heavily, your feet will know what to do. now shit or get off the pot. do you wanna dance or do you wanna see kiss only on their album covers?
you are a little scrawny, but thanks to the concert we are low on amateurs. name?
hawk.
pick a song, hawk.
got any kiss?
you kidding? this is detroit. drink?
yeah, a man's drink...
what is that?
you mean you never seen a jack daniels on the rocks before?
sure, i have. but not one with ice in it, that is all.
save your money, stud muffin. the lady at the end of the bar sends her love.
whoa... she is a killer.
amanda finch. her ex is one of the wealthiest businessmen in detroit. play your cards right and you could hit paydirt. she like 'em young.  and since you look a little new at this, let me give you three words of advice. hard to get. think it, act it, know it, be it. nothing a woman loves more than when you beat her at her own head games.
please sir, do not beat me up. i do have a kiss ticket, but not on me.
a likely story. hand it over, kid.
no really. my brother's hanging onto it for safe keeping. please, let me get him for you.
hey, kid, that is okay. i do not wanna see kiss that ba...
do not try to run, maggot. chongo's an all-state track star in every event.
what do you want?
a tag on your toe. nobody threatens me and lives.
look, you can have my wallet...
it is not nearly enough, punk.
please, sir, do not kick my ass! I will do anything to get out of a beating!
say, chongo, perhaps we could use some extra cash for tasty snacks at the kiss concert our weasly friend will not be attending.
forgive me, father, for i have sinned. this is my first confession in... well... a really long time.
prepare to receive the act of penance. how many sins have you committed since your last confession?
just one, father, but boy was it a doozy.
oh, dicky, i c-c-can't...
you are not going to chicken out on me now, are you? we have got your kiss song playing and everything.
i-i c-can't...
look, people undress in public because, a, they are exhibitionists, b, they are nutcases, or c, they need the money. i can tell you are not a, and i hope to hell you are not b. so my suggestion is, think about why you are a c and let your body party, shake your groove thing, boogie oogie oogie till you just can not boogie no more.
two hundred bucks?
you heard me, nad breath. my time's precious and i think that is a reasonable price to pay for your sorry life.
look, i want to live, but i do not know where the fuck I am going to find two hundred bucks.
so, you see if it was not for me, me and my friends would be at that kiss concert right now... together.
that is it?
yeah.
well, this is a unique confession to say the least, son. and not exactly the most interesting one I have ever heard either. you sure you do not want to talk about... oh, carnal knowledge with a neighborhood girl or impure thoughts about the new student teacher maybe... or how about finding a box of magazines under your dad's bed?
no.
well then, i suggest you have a seat on the bench behind you and think of something a little juicier to confess than losing kiss tickets. i realize this is detroit, but i personally find, what that rock and roll band is all about, to be boring as lucifer's kingdom. I will return in a little while.
beth? i can not believe it.
believe it.
i did not mean for that to be so... intense. forgive me.
i do not care. i wanna hear more.
I have loved you ever since i first laid eyes on you, jeremiah. I have just always been too scared to show it.
beth, i can not believe you just said that because that is exactly how I have always felt about you... call me jam. it is my band name.
you do not know how long I have been waiting to hear that... jam!
we have got to take this slow...
right, slow...
oh, screw it!
thanks, miss.
you are too kind. I am amanda.
right, well, thanks for the drinks and stuff, amanda, but there is no reason for me to stick around these parts anymore.
do not be so glum, hawk. the night's still young and filled with plenty of compensatory possibilities.
huh?
I would be in a position to spend some money on you if you would get in a position and spend some time on me.
oh, yeah! you and what army?
the kiss army!
so. is it true that gene simmons had a cow's tongue grafted onto his real one? y'know, to make it so long?
i dunno. i think he had the piece of skin under his tongue removed so he could stick it out farther. I am not too up on gene trivia.
your man is the drummer, peter criss, right?
peter criss is my inspiration, man. if i paid a hundred bucks for a kiss show and all i saw was his solo, I would consider it... money... hey, how did you know that?
i have all your notebook doodles memorized, jam... here.
ann arbor?
my dad's company is relocating him. we are moving. that is why i was acting so freaky in school today. i thought it was the last time I would ever see you. anyway, open the box. i would have given it to you this morning, except... like i said, i was freaking out.
okay, you better have something really sinful for me this time, son. my patience is worn to threads and your mom will be here any minute.
alright, father, here it is. about two weeks ago i went to my cousin's wedding and one of the bridesmaids asked me if i wanted to take a bath.
no...
i was insulted, so i asked her if i was wreaking some wicked b.o., right? then she said no, she wanted to take a bath with me.
oh, this is terrible... please go on.
well, she was a very tempting siren, father. built like you would not believe. so i gave into temptation about a block away from the wedding reception at this little motel that charges by the hour.
well? continue! continue!
okay... when she peeled off that gown, you will never guess what she was wearing underneath.
was it a teddy?
no. much bet... i mean, much more sinful than that.
a bustier?
tell you what. you keep guessing and I will say something when you get it.
splendid! i love a good game of name that nightie.
what the hell is that?
gin.
whoa. some of this hard liquor's a tad too manly for me. I am a brewski man myself.
better ease up then, hawk. would not want to give you whiskey dick would we?
who is whiskey dick?
well. obviously no one you have to worry about... woody.
my name's not woody, it is haw-haw...
well, amanda, this has been quite a night. so far you have seen me and my dick throw up.  what is next? projectile diarrhea?  man. what a stud, huh?
believe it or not, you still have a way to go before you start competing with my soon-to-be-ex-husband... the champion of lousy lovemaking. the man who thinks he is the biggest and the best... the man who thinks every secretary, stewardess, and cocktail waitress he fucks should lick his feet for the honor. the man for whom faking it was invented. christ, if i had not gotten pregnant with our son, i would have never known i even had sex with the prick.
you love him?
i just told you, he is a big, hairy...
no, i mean... you love your son?
more than anything in the world.
and he loves you back, does not he?
he is a little spoiled, but i know he does.
well, shame on him if he doesn't.
gimme your gun, boy!
no, you gimme your gun, boy!
do not tempt me, I will shoot!
not if i shoot first!
i do not even think you have a gun!
neither do i!
ann arbor isn't... that far from cleveland, right?
nah. once i get my own wheels, i could come up all the time.
that would be great. hey, maybe someday your band'll play there. it is a college town, you know?
i feel like such an idiot. why did not i just say something a year and a half ago? man, think of how much time we wasted.
let's not think about the past. let's just think about from today on. I will never forget you, jam.
tell me about it. church will never be the same again.
coming dad.  I will call you. soon as we get a phone. bye.
bye.
amanda, as ironic as this is going to sound, i can not take any money for... I am no midnight cowboy, y'know. it would only cheapen the whole deal for me.
I am not paying you for the lovemaking, hawk. i just want you to have whatever you needed the money for when you took me up on my offer.
jeremiah... what is gotten into you?
i just lost my virginity in a confessional booth! lord have mercy!!
any luck?
plenty, but it was all bad.
i found the volvo.
tickets?
no... you do not think...?
nah. could not be.
well... i still got my idea if anybody will let me speak.
go ahead, jam.
we all beat each other up, then, once we are nice and bruised, we run over to the ticket takers and say we got mugged and our tickets were stolen. they got to let us in then.
