I am john mcclane.
argyle.  I am your limo driver.  hey, nice bag.
argyle.  do not you take this stuff?
do i?  I am sorry.  you are going to have to help me, man.  this is my first time driving a limo.
that is okay.  this is my first time riding in one.
if your friend is hot to trot...i know a couple of mama bears.  ...or is he married?
married.
the girl was off today.  hey, i did not expect you to sit up front.  so, your lady live out here?
the past six months.
meanwhile, you still live in new york?
you are nosey, you know that, argyle?
hey, I am sorry.  when i was a cabdriver, see, people expected a little chit chat, a little eccentricity and comaraderie, i forgot how stuck up you limo guys were, so excuse me.
it is okay, it is okay.
so, you divorced of what?
she had a good job, it turned into a great career.
but meant her moving here.
closer to japan.  you are fast.
so, why did not you come?
'cause I am a new york cop who used to be a new york kid, and i got six months backlog of new york scumbags I am still trying to put behind bars. i do not just get up and move.
you mean you thought she would not make it out here and she would come crawling on back, so why bother to pack?
like i said, argyle...you're fast.
mind if i play some tunes?
how 'bout some christmas music?
that is christmas music.
so, you go on upstairs to the party, your lady sees you, you run into each other's arms.  music comes up, you live happily ever after, that it?
it is corny, but i could live with it.
what is it do not work out that way? where you going to stay?
I will find someplace.
you are all right, argyle.
just remember that when you sign for the tip.  they are paying for it, so do not be shy.
excuse me, I am looking for --
holly gennero?
yeah.  how did you know?
I have spent half my life on airplanes,			* i can recognize someone who just got off one.  I am joe takagi, mr. mcclane.  i have ...something to do with this company.
so I have heard.
relax, ellis.  I am off duty.
can i get you anything?  food?  cake? watered down champagne punch?
I am fine.  you throw quite a party.  i did not know they had christmas in japan.
hey, we are flexible.  pearl harbor did not work out, we got you with tape decks.
you wife's made for this business. she know how to drive a hard bargain.
yeah.  i remember our first date.
nice, but one of us is three hours out of sync.  i think it is me.  is there a place i can wash up?
sure.  follow me.
what are you doing?
it is a long story.  you know, i think that ellis has his eye on you.
that is okay...  ... i have an eye on his private bathroom.
well, cappy roberts retired out here a couple years ago.  he said i could bunk with him.
oh...where does he live?
ramona...no, pomona, that is it.
pomona!  you will be in the car the whole time...look, let's make this easy.  i have a spare bedroom.  it is not huge, but the kids would love to have you at the house.
they would, huh?
i would too. * they lock eyes for a moment, but it is an intense moment that says a lot about how they still feel about each other.
...i've missed you.						*
especially my name.  you must miss it every time you write a check.  when did you start calling yourself 'ms. gennero'?
this is a japanese company, you know? they figure a married woman, she is on the way out the door...
sure.  it is unnerving.  i remember this one particular married woman, she went out the door so fast there was practically a jetwash...i mean, talk about your wind chill factor...
did not we have this same conversation in july?  damn it, john, there was an opportunity out here -- i had to take it --
no matter what it did to our marriage -- ?
my job and my title and my salary did nothing to our marriage except change your idea of what it should be.
oh, here it comes.  one of those 'meaningful relationship conversations.' i never should have let you get those magazine subscriptions --
you want to know my idea of a marriage? it is a partnership where people help each other over the rough spots -- console each other when there is a down...and when there is an up, well, hell, a little goddamn applause or an attaboy would not be too bad.  i needed that, john.  i deserved that.
I will be a few minutes.  wait here --
do not i always?
it is beautiful.  i always enjoyed models as a boy.  the exactness, the attention to every foreseeable detail... perfection.
this is what this is about?  out building project in indonesia? contrary to what you people think, we are going to develop that region... not 'exploit' it.
yes...i know about them.  the code key is a necessary step in accessing the vault.
you want...money?  what kind of terrorists are you?
who said we were terrorists?
the code key, please...?
it is useless to you!  there is seven safeguards on our vault, and the code key is only one of them!  you will never get it open!
then there is no reason not to tell it to us.
i told you...
i do not know it!  get on a goddamn jet to tokyo and ask the chairman! I am telling you!  you are just going to have to kill me --
okay.
nothing...
see to heinrich...  now...you can break the code key...?
how long?
thirty minutes to break the code... two hours for the five mechanicals. the seventh lock...that's out of my hands.
if out plan works...the fbi will get rid of it for us.
i know what you are feeling.  but this is not productive --
he was my only brother...my only family!  i want blood for my blood.  we search...now.
no.  heinrich's team must finish planting the detonators...and theo needs time on the vault.  after the			* police come they will waste hours trying to negotiate...that's when we search			* for this man.  until then...we do not alter the plan.
and if he alters it...?						*
what is happening?
they do not look happy...something's gone wrong.
the police...?
john.
john?  christ, he could fuck this whole thing up...what does he think he is doing?
how about his job?
his 'job' is 3000 miles away.  without him, they might let us go...at least we have a chance...
tell that to mr. takagi.
hans, he killed by brother --
karl, i know you want him, but the police are probably on their way. maybe we can convince them it was all a mistake, but not if they hear gunshots! if you lock him in he will be neutralized -- now do it!  karl?  karl!
bad for your health anyway.
who are you, then?
just the fly in the ointment, hans. the monkey in the wrench, the pain in the ass -
mr. mystery guest.  are you still there?
i would not think of leaving, hans. unless you want to open the front door...?
I am afraid not.  but you have me at a loss -- you know my name, but who are you?  just another american who saw too many movies as a child.  another orphan of a bankrupt culture who thinks he is john wayne...rambo... marshal dillion.
actually, i was always partial to roy rogers.  i really dug those sequined shirts.
do you really think you have a chance against us, mr. cowboy?
he was not lying about marco:  he is thirty stories down on the street. the other man is heinrich, and i found his body upstairs.  and his bag is missing.
he had the detonators!  theo?  theo!
yo!
we may have some problems.  how is your schedule?
three down, four to go --
then do not waste time talking to me.
how do you know?
I have seen enough phoney id's in my time to recognize that the ones they have got cost a fortune.  add all that up and i do not know what the fuck it means, but these are bad ass preps and they are here to stay.
i hear you...  partner.  and la's finest are on it, so light 'em if you got 'em.
I am ahead of you...partner.
uh, what do i call you?
'roy'.
got it...'roy'.  now listen.  if you think of anything else you think we need to know, do not be shy, okay? in the meantime i want you to find a safe place and hole-up and let us do our job.  understand?
they are all yours, al.  good luck.
i am, sir...sergeant al powell.
dwayne robinson.  well, what have you learned?  what do they want?
the terrorists?  do not know, sir. we have not heard a peep from them.
then who the hell have you been talking too?
we do not exactly know, sir.  he will not give us him name.  he appears to be the man who called in the report...he's killed one of the terrorists for sure and claims he capped two others.
he claims?  powell, has it occured to you he could be one of the terrorists, pulling your chain? or some kind of nut case who --
i do not think so, sir.  in fact... i think he is a cop.  maybe not lapd, but definitely a badge.
how do you know?
a hunch.  things he said.  like, knowing how to recognize a phony id --
-- recognizing phony id's?  christ, powell, he could be a fucking bartender for all we know!
i...have a request.
oh?  what idiot put you in charge?
you did.  you murdered by boss.  now...  they are looking to me.  personally I would pass on the jab.  i do not enjoy being this close to you.
go on.
we have a pregnant woman out there --  -- relax, she is not due for two weeks, but a marble floor is not doing her back any good.  I would like permission for her to more to one of the offices where there is a sofa.
no.  but I will have a sofa brought out to you.  good enough?
good enough.  and unless you like is messy, you would better start taking us in groups to the bathroom.
yes, you are right.  it will be done.
mr. takagi chose his people well, mrs...?
gennero.  miss gennero.
what is going on?
what is it look like?  we are going in.
going in...are you out of your mind? there is 30 hostages in there -- for all we know --
-- all we know?  we do not know shit, powell.  if there is hostages why has not anyone asked for ransom?  if there is terrorists, where is their goddamn list of demands?  all we know is that someone shot up your car, and it could be the same flake you have been talking to on the radio!
what about the body that fell out of the window -- ?
who the hell knows?  maybe he was a stockbroker who looked at the dow jones and opted for early retirement!
I am here, roy, but i'm, uh, kind of busy.  let's talk later, okay?
al, what is wrong?  did something --  -- oh, god.  you are coming in!  that is it, is not it?  christ, powell, i told you what you are dealing with here --
i said we will talk later, roy.  if you are what i think you are you should know when to listen, when to shut up... and when to pray.
safe and sound, thanks to you. what the fuck was that?
the plastique i found.  is the building on fire?
no, but it is going to need one hell of a paint job and a shitload of screen doors.  one spotters say you got two with that blast.
two?  are you sure?
is that him?
yessir.
give me that.  now, listen to me, mister, i do not know what you think you are doing, but demolishing a building does not fall under the definition of 'help'! there is hundreds of people out here and you covered half of them in pieces of glass --
hey, i love you.  so do a lot of the guys.  so hang in there, man.  hang in there.
thanks...partner.
where are you going?
I am tired of sitting here waiting to see who gets us killed first... them...or your husband.  hi there.
what are you going to do?
hey, i negotiate million dollar deals for breakfast.  i can handle these clowns.  i want to talk to hans.  hans! sprickenzie talk?
-- you would not let me kill him when i had the chance --
if you would listened to me he would be neutralized already!
i do not want neutral...i want dead --
hope I am not interrupting...?
what does he want?
you are very perceptive.
hey, i read the papers, i watch 60 minutes, i say to myself, these guys are professionals, they are motivated, they are happening. they want something.  now, personally, i do not care about your politics. maybe you are pissed at the camel jockeys, maybe it is the hebes, northern ireland, that is none of my business.  i figure, you are here to negotiate, am i right?
you are amazing.  you figured this all out already?
hey, business is business.  you use a gun, i use a fountain pen, what is the difference?  to put it in my terms, you are here on a hostile takeover and you grab us for some greenmail but you did not expect a poison pill was going to be running around the building.  hans, baby...i'm your white knight.
i must have missed 60 minutes.  what are you saying?
the guy upstairs who is fucking things up?  i can give him to you.
yeah, just trying to handle some year old twinkies.  yucck.  what do they put in these things?
'sugar, enriched flour, partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, polysorbate 60 and yellow dye #5.'
you sound like a man with a couple of kids.
not yet, the wife in working on our first.  you got any kids back on the ranch?
two.  and I would sure like to see them swinging on the jungle gym with al junior.
it is a date.  you buy the ice cream.
john, they are giving me a few minutes to try and talk some sense into you. i know you think you are doing your job, and i can appreciate that, but you are just dragging this thing out. none of us gets out of here until these people can negotiate with the la police, and they are just not going to start doing that until you stop messing up the works.
ellis, what have you told them?
i told them we are old friends and you were my guest at the party.
ellis...you should not be doing this...
tell me about it.
john, i think you could get with the program a little.  the police are here now.  it is their problem. tell these guys where the detonators are so no one else gets hurt.  hey, I am putting my life on the line for you buddy...
do not you think i know that!  put hans on!  hans, listen to me, that shithead does not know what kind of scum you are, but i do --
what am i, a method actor?  hans, babe, put away the gun.  this is radio, not television...
that asshole's not my friend! i barely know him!  i hate his fucking guts --  -- ellis, for christ's sake, tell him you do not mean shit to me --
john, how can you say that, after all these years--?  john?  john?
hear that?  talk to me, where are my detonators.  where are they or shall i shoot another one?  sooner or later...  ...i might get to someone you do care about.
go fuck yourself.
goddamn, did not you hear him!  he practically pulled the goddamned trigger himself -- he gave that man to them --
christ, can not you read between the lines!  he did everything he could to save him...if he gave himself up they would both be dead!
maybe.  and maybe they would at least be talking to us!  now tell your 'partner' to stay out of it, or so help me if he lives through this I will put him behind bars myself!
he is alone, tired, hunted, and has not seen diddly-squat from us and you think he gives a flying fuck about what you are going to do to him? robinson, wake up and smell the shit you are shoveling!
anytime you want to go home, sergeant...consider yourself dismissed.
this is --
this is deputy chief robinson.  who is this?
'asian dawn movement?'
i read about them in time magazine.  when these revolutionary brothers and sisters are free, the hostages in this building will be taken to the roof and they will accompany us in helicopters to the los angeles international airport where you will be given further instructions.  you have two hours to comply.
al?  al, you there?
I am here, cowboy.
speaking of cows, did you ever hear so much bullshit in your life? two hours?  that does not even make any sense --
do not tell me, partner.  I am just a desk jockey who was on the way home when you rang.
the way you drove that car, i figured you for the streets.
in my youth, partner.  in my youth.
I am special agent johnson of the fbi. this is agent johnson...no relation.
dwayne robinson, lapd.  I am in charge here.
not any more.
--ohgodplease -- do not kill me -- do not kill me -- you are one of them, i know it --
whoa, whoa, easy man.  i will not hurt you.  who are you?  what are you looking for?
you...you're an american?
only if new jersey counts.
one of yours?
no, sir.
if he is not a terrorist, and he is not a hostage...he's just not part of the equation.
you...you do not work for nakatomi... and if you are not one of them...
I am a cop from new york.
new york...
they invited me to the xmas party. who knew?
better than being caught with your pants down, right?  john mcclane.
william clay.  call me bill.
bill, you know how to use a handgun?
one weekend i went to a combat ranch...  you know, that game with the, the guns that shoot red paint?  must sound pretty silly to you...
sounds better than nothing.
hans.  your hans.
put it down now.
that was tricky, with the accent. i bet you do a great ed sullivan. why do you need the detonators, hans? i already used the explosives.
I am going to count to three...
yeah.  like you did with takagi.
you better heat up that miracle				* you were talking about.  we broke through on number six, and the electromagentic came down like a sledgehammer...
* well have a look at what our friends outside are doing and I will be right up.
roy?  you still with us?
yeah.  but all things being equal, I would rather be in philadelphia.  by the way, chalk up two more terrorists.
they boys'll be glad.  we got a pool going on you.
yeah?  what is the odds?
you do not want to know.
they way you drive, i can see why.
i...i shot a kid.
eleven years ago.  oh, it was dark... he was big for his age...damn ray gun he had looked real enough...yeah, i had all the right excuses...but afterwards... i really could not draw my gun again.
i...i'm sorry.  i did not mean to make a joke of it.
hey, you could not know.
i still feel like shit.
then this will not matter.  lapd's not calling the shots anymore.
...the circuits that cannot be cut... are cut automatically in reponse to a terrorist incident...you ask for miracles, theo...i give you the fbi...
when you are hot, you are hot.
powell?  what is going on?
ask the fbi.  they have got the terrorist playbook and they are running it, step by step.
encourage them to be bolder.
the only thing left for them is the city grid...  ...they may not do it.
-- ten blocks?  are you crazy?  it is christmas eve, thousands of people -- the mayor'll scream bloody murder --
we must shut down the building.  go wider --!
look...i'm getting a bad feeling up here...i'd like you to do something for me.  look up my wife...don't ask how, you will know by then...and tell her...tell her...i've been a jerk. when things panned out for her, i should have been behind her all the way ...we had something great going until i screwed it up...she was the best thing that ever happened to a bum like me.  she is heard me say i love you a thousand times, but she never got to hear this...honey...i'm sorry.  you get all that?
i got it.  but you can tell her yourself.  just watch your ass and you will make it.
i hope so.  but that is up to the guy upstairs.  upstairs...  ...hans, you bastard...what were you doing?
roy?
stand by, powell.  i gotta check something out.
after all your posturing, all your speeches...you're nothing but a common thief.
I am an exceptional thief, mrs. mcclane. and now that I am moving up to kidnapping, you should be more polite.
john!
holly, we have to stop meeting like this.  so that is what it was.  a fucking robbery.  so why nuke the building, hans?
nein, dies ein ist mein.  this time john wayne does not walk off into the sunset with grace kelly.
that was gary cooper, shithead...
no more jokes, drop it or she gets it between the eyes!
whoa, hans, now you are the cowboy?
'yippe-ki-yea, mother fucker'?  now you are fucked.
al.  man, you were my rock.  i could not have made it without you.
bullshit.
I am serious.  hey, this is my wife... holly gennero.
