combat operations center, major mandrake speaking.
this is general ripper speaking.
yes, sir.
do you recognize my voice?
certainly, general.  why do you ask, sir?
why do you think i ask?
i don't know, sir. we just spoke a few minutes ago.
youddon't think i'd ask if you recognized my voice unless it was important, do you, major?
no, sir.
good.  has the wing confirmed holding at x-points?
yes, sir.
all right, major.  i'm putting the base on condition red.
condition red!
that's right.  i want this flashed to all section immediately.
yes, sir.  what's up, general ripper?
you're a good officer, major mandrake.  you have a right to know.  it looks like we're in a shooting war!
a shooting war!
yes, major.  this looks like it's going to be it.
but...what kind of a shooting war?  have they hit any of our cities yet?
major, that's all i've been told.  just got it on the red phone.  the base is to be sealed tight.  and i mean tight.
yes, sir.
let me worry about that, major. i've still got my red line to the air command.
that's right, sir.
we don't want to be vulnerable to saboteurs calling up and pretending to be different people from the president down, do we?
you're right, sir.
no calls from inside out.  no calls from outside in are even answered.  no calls.
i understand, sir.  nothing comes or goes without your personal say-so.
no calls at all.  with or without my say-so. my voice can be imitated too, major.
yes, sir.  i just thought of something, sir.  how do i know i'm talking to you now?
who do you think you're talking to?
to you, sir.  but how do i know?
are you trying to be insubordinate?
no, sir.
i hope not.  now, as soon as you do what i told you, have plan-r radioed to the wing.
plan-r????
are you hard of hearing, major?
no, sir.  plan-r to be radioed to the wing.
as soon as you've done that, shut down the communications center.  lock it up and assign the personnel to base security details.
general ripper, if i shut down the communi- cations center, there'll be no radio or teleprinter contact with air command head- quarters or anyone, for that matter.
are you questioning my orders, major?
no, sir.  i'm just bringing the facts to your attention, sir.
you're a good officer, major, and you're perfectly right to bring these facts to my attention.
thank you, sir.
now, as soon as you've done that, double- up on all base security teams.  our enemies are plenty smart, and there might even be an attack on the base by saboteurs.
yes, sir.
and lastly, all privately owned radios are to be immediately impounded.  they can be used to issue instructions to saboteurs. air police will have lists of all owners.
hey, king.  somebody at burpelson has a very perverted sense of humor.
yeah?
i just got another blast on the crm-114, and the damned thing decodes: wing attack, plan-r.
wing attack, plan-r.  that's exactly what it says.
check your code again.  no one at base would pull a stunt like that, terry.
that's what i'm doing, and it comes out the same.
then this is it.
what?
war.
war?
what else could it be?
maybe it's an exercise.
yeah, to see if we're on our toes.
no, they wouldn't send us in with bombs on an exercise.
no, this looks like the real thing.
yeah, it sure looks like the real thing, all right.
he's right.  we wouldn't have started it.
they must have clobbered some of our cities already!
he's right.  they must have clobbered some of our cities already.
the dirty, stinking, rotten, sons of b's!! they might have clobbered marge and the
i'm sorry, major kong.  i guess i was way out of line.
forget it, quentin.  it can happen to the best of us.  now let's get squared away.
give me a first rough course as soon as you can, lieutenant ballmuff.
roughly, one-zero-five. i'll have it plotted in a minute, major kong.
okay.  check these points.  complete radio silence.  to ensure that the enemy can't plant false transmissions and fake orders, the crm-114 is to be switched into all receiver circuits.  the three code letters of the period are to be set on the alphabet dials of the crm-114, which will in turn block any transmissions other than those preceded by the code letters. you got it?
roger, i'm setting up the crm-114.
primary target the icbm base at laputa. one weapon fused for air burst at ten thou- sand.  second weapon to be used if first malfunctions.  otherwise the secondary gets it - the airfield outside of karnak.  fused air burst at ten thousand.
i've got the heading, major.  one-three-eight.
roger. one-three-eight.
in about twenty minutes we start losing height to keep under coastal radar.  cross in over the coast low-level, continue low- level on zig-zag legs to primary, and climb for bomb run.  any questions?
i've got one.
shoot, lothar.
our targets are a missile complex and an airfield - not cities, right?
that's what i said.
well, if there's a war, they must have hit us first.
what's your point, lothar?
well, if they hit us first, they've probably fired off their missiles and got their planes off the ground already.  we'll just be hitting empty real estate.
are you saying our order don't make sense?
hellnno, major.  i was just trying to think the thing through.
i'm sorry, sir.  general schmuck is asleep and he isn't taking calls until eight-thirty.
what is your name, young lady?
ceida pietraszkiewicz.
what did you say?
ceida pietraszkiewicz...p...i...e... t...r...a...s...z...k...i...e...w... i...c...z.
now look here, miss pietraszkiewicz, this is air command headquarters calling.
yes!
general schmuck?
yes!  who the hell is this?
go back to sleep, baby.
what did you say, sir?
i didn't say anything.  what's the meaning of disturbing me at this hour, colonel?
general schmuck, we monitored a trans- mission about six minutes ago from burpelson air force base, hq 843rd wing.  it was apparently directed to their wing on air- borne alert.  it decoded as - wing attack, plan-r.
colonel, you're not drunk, are you, man?
no, sir.
then why bother me with this nonsense? get in touch with the base commander.
well, that's ridiculous.  if the teleprinter and radio links are out of order, just pick up a phone and pay for a call.
i know it sounds crazy, sir, but we tried, and nobody answers any of the telephones.
does the threat board show anything?
well, that's the funny part of it, too, sir.  it doesn't show a damned thing.
well, mister president.
what kind of trouble?
well, sir, about forty-six minutes ago one of my base commanders, general jack d. ripper, sent out attack orders to the thirty-four b-90's of the 843rd bomb wing, under his command.
general schmuck?
yes, sir.  he issued attack orders to --
may i be stupid enough to inquire why in hell the base commander of the 843d bomb wing did a thing like that ???
to be perfectly honest, mister president, we really aren't sure.
you aren't sure!
not exactly, sir.  you see, colonel puntrich at air command hq received a call from him about twenty minutes ago.  he asked general ripper if he had issued the go-code and the attack order, and general ripper said:  "sure, the orders came from me.  they're on their way in, and i advise you to get the rest of air command in after them. my boys will give you the best kind of start, and you sure as hell won't stop them now."  then he hung up.
damn it!  damn it!  i've been telling you all for years you've got too damned many psychoes in the service.
be fair, mister president.  didn't we initiate the human reliability tests for all personnel handling nuclear weapons?
buck, when i told you to give them right up to the top, you said we couldn't insult a general officer by asking him to pass a test to see if he's a psycho.
it was a honest mistake, sir.
i presume the planes are armed?
i'm afraid so, mister presient. being part of the air-borne alert, each plane is carrying a full load - about fifty megatons apiece.
well, what about the positive control, the safety catch?  don't the planes automatically come back unless they get a second order?
that's right, sir.  but the planes were at their positive control points, ready to turn around when general ripper issued the final go-code.
and i suppose there's some reason why you haven't recalled them?
yes, sir.  the base commander, general ripper, selected plan-r?
what the hell is plan-r?
well, sir, plan-r is an emergency plan to be used by lower echelon commanders if higher echelons have been knocked out by a sneak attack.
why can't you cancel it?
once the orders have been given, plan-r requires any new orders to be received on the crm-114 in the aircraft.  but the crm-114 will not receive any transmissions unless they are preceded by the proper three-letter code group.
and i suppose you're going to tell me you don't know what the three-letter code is.
mister president, to guard against espionage, the three letter of the code group for plan-r are always selected by the lower echelon commander himself, just before each mission.  they are sealed in the various attack plans and are known only to the lower echelon commander and his deputy.  in this case the deputy is air-borne with the wing, and general ripper refuses to recall the planes.
how soon until the enemy finds out what's going on?
we estimate the planes should be entering their coastal radar cover in about twenty-five min- utes.
how could you let this happen, general schmuck?
mister president, i know you think i've let you down, but we had to have a plan-r.  if we completely centralized the command and control, all a potential aggressor would have to worry about was knock- ing out maybe half a dozen headquarters and the capitol, and we'd be out of business. we'd have planes and missiles just sitting there while we were getting clobbered.
then there's no chance for recall?
i should say practically none, though we have our communications center plowing through every possible three-letter combination. the trouble is that there are about seventeen thousand permutations, and it will take us approximately four and a half days to go through them all.
general jack d. ripper, sir.
i want to talk to general ripper.
but we can't communicate with the base.
yes, sir.  one thing, mister president.
yes?
under a condition red alert, the base will probably be sealed off and defended by the base security troops.
i am aware of what a condition red alert implies.
well, sir, they may not allow the special service troops to enter the base.
that's a very wise deduction, general.
thank you, sir.  but what shall i tell them to do if they are denied entrance?
under the circumstances, general, what would you think they should do?
well...i suppose penetrate the base by force.
you see, you knew the answer all the time, general.
but that would mean some of our own boys will get hurt, mister president.
what do you suppose is going to happen if general ripper's planes start bombing their targets?
that certainly would be a problem, sir.
roger, maintain.
lothar, take your checks now.
a through h is correct.
main interference linked to electronic detector.  fight interference on readi- ness state.
check.
missile and plane flight path computer showing four greens.
check.
zombies set to knock out local air defense four hundred miles from primary.
check target approach.
bomb doors circuit is green, bomb release circuit is green, bomb fusing circuit is green.
check, all bomb circuits green.  okay, lothar.
when do you want to arm the bomb for the primary, major?
as soon as i've checked over the route. about five minutes.  all right?
what's the gun for, general ripper?
please don't take any notice of this weapon, major.  i love all weapons, and as of late, i've just taken to keeping a loaded weapon nearby at all times.
sort of like a new hobby, huh, general?
that's right, major.
i see you're playing your radio, major. isn't that contrary to my instructions for the personnel of this base?
oh, it's not my radio, sir.  i picked it up in the communications center.
i didn't mean for anyone to play anyone else's radio either, major.
yes, sir.  general, can i ask a question?
certainly, major mandrake.  you're a good officer, and you can ask me a question any time you want to.
well, general ripper, sir -- i was thinking -- we're on a condition red, aren't we?
that is correct, major.
and a condition red means enemy attack in progress, doesn't it?
you know the regulations well, major.
well, sir, i was thinking, if an enemy attack is in progress, how come the radio's still playing music?  it's supposed to go off, and all we should hear are civil defense broadcasts.
that's a good question, major.  maybe if you think hard, you can think of the answer yourself.
well, i was thinking, maybe an enemy attack is not in progress?
and if that were true?
but then, sir, why have you issued the order: wing attack, plan-r?
because i thought it proper, major.  why else would you think i'd do it?
suppose that were the case?
but -- why...that would be an awful thing to do, sir.
perhaps, major.  perhaps.  pour me a scotch and soda, please.  and help yourself to whatever you like.
don't fret about it, major.  there's nothing anyone can do about it now.  i'm the only one who knows the three-letter code group for the crm-114.
i know that, sir.
we've come a long way since world war ii, major.  and the lessons we've learned are all in plan-r.
i suppose they are, sir.
you're damned right they are.
how much soda, sir.
just a squirt.
that about right?
perfect.  thank you, major.  and now let's drink a toast.
what shall we drink to, sir?
to peace on earth.
general ripper, can i ask another question?
ask away, major.
well, general -- i was wondering, why are you doing this?  i mean why do you want to start the war?
i've given it alot of thought, major.  don't think i haven't.
no, sir.  i mean i didn't think you hadn't given it a lot of thought.
do you remember what clemenceau once said about war?
i don't think so, sir.
he said war was too important a matter to be left to generals.
i see.
when he said it, fifty years ago, he might have been right.  but today, war is too important to be left to the politicians. do you follow me, major?
i'm trying to, sir.
you see, major, at this very moment, while we sit and chat, a decision is being made by the president in the war room.  he knows that the enemy will pick up our planes on their radar in about twenty minutes.
but when they do, sir, won't they hit back with everything they've got?
if we haven't taken any further action, they certainly will.  doyyourhappen to remember the statistics on our casualties in the event of a full-scale enemy attack?
well, i think i remember reading the report on that.  wasn't it something like a hundred and sixty million?
that's close enough, major.
but then why do you want to kill a hundred and sixty million of our people, sir?
you're being dense, major.  i certainly don't
i suppose we might catch them off their guard.
our missiles would impact before my planes were even discovered by the enemy, wouldn't they?
i guess so.
i know so, major.  i know so.  and add to that, the whole air command force being committed to clobber everything they've got.
but even then, we wouldn't get everything.  i mean some missiles would abort, or they'd miss their targets, or maybe the enemy have some secret bases we don't know about.
you're absolutely right.  you forgot to mention their nuclear subs.  but it wouldn't matter. sure we wouldn't get off without getting our hair mussed, but we'd prevail.  i don't think we'd lose more than fifty million people, tops.
but if you just let things alone, we wouldn't lose anyone.
major mandrake, i guess you don't follow what's going on too closely, do you?
where, sir?
where?  everywhere, major.  everywhere.
well, i know they've been going on for years, and they haven't gotten any place.
not yet, major.  not yet.
and i guess they won't until they agree to let us inspect inside their country.
you're very naive, major.  don't they say they want disarmament?
yes, sir.  but so do we.
but we mean it because we are a peace- loving country.  are they a peace-loving country, major.
i don't know, sir.  but they're just as anxious to avoid a nuclear war as we are. war just doesn't make sense any more, for anybody.
but war doesn't make sense precisely because the weapons can kill an entire country -- right?
right.
then don't you realize the bomb gives us peace not war?  and, if that's the case, i ask you again: why do they want disarmament?
well, sir, like i said, for the same reasons we do.  i mean, all the experts say the most likely way for war to start nowadays is by an accident, or a mistake, or by some mentally unbalanced person --
go on, major.
i was just going to say, as long as the weapons exist, sooner or later something's going to happen -- and that'll be it for both countries.
i've heard the arguments.  like napoleon's quote, "there's one thing you can't do with a bayonet, and that's - sit on it."
that's right, sir.  and don't forget in a few years a lot of other countries will have the bomb.  what if they start something?
go on, major.  you fascinate me.
well, sir, i remember an example that pointed out that if a system was safe on 99.99% of the days of the year, given average luck it would fail in thirty years.
i still ask, why do they want disarmament?
well, for the same reasons we do, sir. don't you see?
no, major, i don't.  they have no regard for human life.  they wouldn't care if they lost their whole country as long as they won.
gee, sir, that last remark doesn't exactly make all the sense in the world.
major, you're talking like one of them!
well, i'm not, sir.  honestly, sir.
don't be offended, major.  our president holds the same views.
don't you think he knows something about this, general ripper?
i'll tell you what i do think.  if they say they're for disarmament, i say anyone who says they're for disarmament is either a traitor or a damned fool.
but, general, we're on our toes.  we haven't agreed to anything for years.  inffact, a a lot of people say we never will.
but if they suddenly opened up and gave us the inspection we want, we'd agree, wouldn't we?
if they gave us what we think we need, yes, i guess we would.
and you'd like to see that?
general, what's good enough for the president and all the experts he's got working on the thing, is good enough for me.
do you think we'd cheat?
no, sir.  i'm sure we wouldn't.
do you think they would cheat?
look, sir.  i'm no expert on the subject, but i've read some pretty sharp ideas the big boys have.  like, say, both countries agreeing to a million dollar reward and international protection for anyone who gives evidence of cheating to the inspectors. you can't hide those things without a lot of people knowing about it.  and if i were going to try and hide a few, i wouldn't want to depend on the fact that some poor slob isn't going to run and blab for a million bucks.  we're as smart as they are, and if they cheat, or even hold back information, we'd pull right out.
major, i hate to say this, but i think you've been enemy indoctrinated, and you don't even know it.
i don't think that's a fair analogy, sir.
admiral buldike?
but he'll hear everything we're saying.  and if he just looks out of that window, he'll see everything we're doing.
that's the idea, general schmuck.  zlat!
lieutenant toejam, are you ready for bim and bam?
ready, major.
primary arming switch.
primary arming switch.
primary circuit is live.
primary trigger switch.
release first safety.
first safety.
second safety.
seond safety.
fusing for ten thousand air burst.
check, ten thousand air burst.
master safety.
master kong.
primary bomb is live.
all right, lothat, that does it.  master safety on now until bomb run.
master safety on.
we should be crossing the coast in about six minutes.
thanks, binky.  can you see bromdingna island yet?
i don't think so.
missiles!  sixty miles off, heading in fast.  steady track, they look like beam riders.
roger, keep calling them.  knock off auto-pilot, ace.
just the missiles.
they must have been fired from bromdingna - probably one of their new vampire - 202's. they've got a range well over a hundred miles.
forty-five.  still coming straight and fast. twelve o' clock.
speed?
between mach 3 and 4.
call them every five miles.
thirty-five, still straight.
twenty!  twelve o' clock.
maximum ecm!
maximum ecm.
fifteen!  twelve o' clock.
please be calm, ambassador de sade.
you will not get away with this vicious attack on our peace-loving people.
premier belch will not be fooled by this fantastic lie.
mister president, are you going to let this stooge talk to you like this?
war-mongering bully!  don't think you're going to intimidate me!
all right, mister ambassador!  but you must treat general "buck" schmuck with the respect due him.
can i have a glass of water?
certainly - how about some breakfast?
possibly some coffee?
moffo!
thank you, admiral.
now, mister ambassador.  in a very few moments we should have premier belch on the phone.  i intend to tell him exactly what has happened.  i merely want you to authenticate certain facts for him.
the food - you wouldn't put - anything in it, would you?
don't be ridiculous.
i have your word, mister president?
yes, of course.
we don't operate like you kgb boys.
knock it off will you, general?  crudley, find out what's holding up that call!
where are you trying to reach him?
at his office in the capitol.
if he's not there, try...  87 - 43 - 56.
did you get that, kulnick?
don't you dare touch me!  what the devil do you think you're doing?
i caught you red-handed, mister ambassador.
give that back to me.
what do you think of this, mister president?  i told you we shouldn't let him in here.
what's the meaning of this?
i am sorry.  sub-miniature photography is my hobby.  it's amazing what excellent en- largements you can make from the negative.
i'll hold this, if you don't mind.  you can have it back when you leave.
all right...we're still flying.  i'm taking her down to the deck.
give me revs for maximum speed at sea level.
you know what that'll do to our fuel consumption.
can't help it.  what's the wind like?
shouldn't be bad.  might even help.  but my guess is we're going to have to paddle our way back.
we'll worry about that later.  okay, i'll take damage reports.
major, those are my boys out there dying.
yes, sir.  why don't you stop the fighting, sir?
to peace on earth, major.
peace on earth.
general, now that you've done that, i beg you to recall the wing.
major, i happen to believe in a life after this one, so i believe i will have to answer for what i have done.  i think i can.
well, it has been explained to me that, if you add a thick cobalt-thorium-g jacket to a nuclear device, the radio- activity resulting from such a nuclear explosion will retain its lethal power for a hundred years.
our scientists calculated that the detonation of fifty of our biggest nuclear devices, jacketed in cobalt-thorium-g would enshroud the earth in a hundred years of lethal radio- activity from which no human life could escape. in ten months the earth would be as dead as the moon.
where is this...thing?
it is buried somewhere in the grudd mountains.
do you mean to say you'd set it off in your own country?
naturally.  it would kill us just as surely even if we set it off in your country.  but this way we know it's safe, and we don't have the problem of delivering it.
mister president, i can't buy this malarkey; they wouldn't set the damn thing off.  why should they?
you're absolutely right.  we wouldn't.  no sane nation ever would.  that's why it was designed to trigger itself automatically.
then all you have to do is untrigger it.
ah, but if we were able to untrigger it, that would be defeating its purpose.  all our enemies would have to do, would be to warn us in advance that they were going to violate one of our unalterable triggering conditions. we would bluff, naturally, but in the end we would be insane not to untrigger it. now we can say: there is no point trying to intimidate us, we don't control the doomsday machine.
mister ambassador, what on earth possessed your country to build this weapon?
first of all, economic reasons.  it was cheap.  the entire project cost just a fraction of what we spent in a single year on our various space and missile programs. it also seemed ideal in most other respects. it was terrifying, convincing, automatic, and extremely simple to understand.
but, finally, one factor tipped the scales. we received information from a very re- liable source that your country was going to build one.
that's preposterous!  we have no such program!
the source was...shall we say, completely reliable.
the report is entirely untrue.  i can assure you of that.
perhaps you gentlemen would like to check with the source?
you mean you'll tell us his name???
it's not a he, general.  it was an article in the "times" about a year and a half ago.
major?...major?  i'm colonel "bat" guano, 701 battalion.
come in...come in... peace on earth... peace on earth...yes...
why are you saying that phrase over and over again?
i think that just might be it!  although it could be riki-tiki-tavi.
what are you talking about, major?
the three-letter code group.  or maybe some combination of the three letters. p...o...e, or p...e...o, or e...o...p... let's see, there would be six possible combinations.
get a grip on yourself, major!
it might still be worth trying riki-tiki- tavi.  r...t...t...there's only three combinations of -- t...t...r, or t...r...t...
now, snap out of it, fella!
who the hell do you think you are, sir???
i did that for your own good, fella.  now i'm not going to pull rank on you.  when this is over, i'll be happy to step outside with you and settle this thing.  right now my orders are to locate general ripper and put him on the phone with the president.
well, you can't do that because he's dead.
do you have any witnesses, major?
what?
what happened, major?  some kind of private beef between the two of you?
look, i didn't shoot him!
we'll have to leave that up to the c.i.d. boys, won't we, major?
look, colonel.  i've got to talk to somebody at air command.
don't worry, major.  your rights will be fully protected.
colonel, don't you know what's going on?
sure i do.  there was some kind of mutiny on the base, and you killed general ripper.
look, general ripper went off his rocker and ordered the 843rd bomb wing to attack with h-bombs.
you must think i'm an awful sap, major.  just sit down, fella, and keep your hands on the desk!
didn't they tell you?
they told me, major.  and i didn't hear anything about any atomic attack.
look, colonel.  you keep me covered, but let me just pick up this red telephone that connects to air command headquarters. okay?...i won't play any tricks on you... okay?
okay, fella.  but just move slow and don't do anything that might surprise me.
sure...sure, colonel.  now look, i'm picking up the phone...nice and slow.  right?...hello? ...hello?  hello?...hello?...gee, it must be edad. probably the lines were hit during the fighting.
now look, i'm picking up this ordinary telephone.  see?...hello?...hello?... nuts, the lines must still be disconnected.  the general had us disconnect...
look, colonel.  maybe it's too late. maybe they've sent air command in already.  but we've got to try to con- tact somebody.
on your feet, fella.  i've got to get outside and see how my men are.
okay, colonel.  but look, there's a pay phone just outside in the hall.  maybe that works, huh?  maybe it'll work?  what do you think?
you've wasted enough of my time, fella.
wait a minute.  the president!!  that's it! the president!!!
what about the president?
he wanted to talk to general ripper, didn't he?
so what?
well, i'm general ripper's executive officer. he'll want to talk to me.
operator...how much would the call be station-to-station?...thirty-five cents cheaper?...i'd still be short twenty cents ...just a second, operator...  colonel, shoot the lock off the coke machine.  there's bound to be enough change in there.
that's government property, major.
colonel, remember, a reprimand from the president can be pretty serious to a career officer...just a second, operator, i know i have it somewhere.
have you received acknowledgements from every plane?
they're coming in now.
how long will it take to receive them all?
i'm not certain, mister president.  the boys in concom do the pencil work.
i believe it will be just a few minutes, at the most.
how many planes did we lose?
i'm not certain, mister president.  but i believe it was four.
general faceman, what was the name of the officer who called me from burpelson?
i didn't speak to him, sir.  but colonel "bat" guano was in command of the special service battalion, so i would imagine he did.
i want him upped to brigadier general, and recomended for the d.s.c.
yes, sir.
yes?
allow me to assure you that my government will not be satisfied with a polite note of regret for this shocking example of aggression against our peace-loving people.
damn you, de sade!  you know as well as i do that this was the act of a mentally sick man - a single individual, whose crack-up can probably be traced to the strains and tensions caused by your country.
it is very convenient to place all the blame on a dead man.
how dare you talk to me in this manner?
this dreadful accident could never have happened if your government hadn't cynically and hypocritic- ally blocked every proposal we made for disarmament or arms control!!
bah!  all you wanted to do was spy in our country!
that's nonsense, and you know it!
i know nothing of the sort!
surely, you don't expect us to destroy our weapons without being able to verify that you are doing the same?
and surely you don't expect us to let you spy in our country before you destroy your weapons.
don't you realize that despite your incredible distrust and suspicion, that in fact, you place a far greater trust in us than inspection would require?  you trust us not to cause a war accidentally - and, of course, we are obliged to place the same trust in you.
let's have a rundown on the damage, lothar?
everything still checks out okay.
binky?
yeah, i got it in the thigh.
lieutenant toejam, why don't you help him?
i thought i should check out the damage first. my gear is busted up pretty bad.
lieutenant toejam's going to help you in a minute.  can you check your ecm?
why can't he help me now?  he's sitting two feet away from me!
come on, quentin, isn't that pretty selfish, putting yourself ahead of the mission?
look, i'm shot - it hurts.
lieutenant quiffer, we're all sorry you were hit, and we'll help you stick it together as soon as we get squared away.
look, can't someone help me?
general schmuck, are you positive of your figures?
naturally i am, sir.
he says they've only shot down three planes.
well, if you choose to take his word over mine ---
look, he's there, and you're here.
mister president, there were thirty-four aircraft involved.  thirty acknowledged the recall.  that makes four shot down.
hello, are you still there?...uh-huh...i'll be right back.  we're still working this thing out.
how do you know they were shot down, buck?
well, just common sense, sir.  thirty from thirty-four equals four, or my name's not "buck" schmuck!
roger.
fighters closing fast - range fifty miles.
they must have made a visual contact.
must be mach two-five stuff.  altitude fifteen thousand.
they can't touch us at this height.
they're moving apart.
yes?
well, sir, it looks like one aircraft, the "leper colony", failed to receive the recall.
have you tried the recall again?
yes, sir.  we're still sending it.  but it's a funny thing we don't seem to be able to make any contact with the aircraft at all.
what's the target.
well, the premier doped it out pretty well. its primary is their missile base at laputa.
is there any chance a single aircraft can penetrate the entire enemy air defense, when its course and target are known?
if i can speak freely, sir -- look, these guys talk big, but frankly, we think they're short of know-how.  you can't just take a bunch of ignorant peasants and expect them to understand a machine like one of our boys, and i don't mean that as an insult, mister ambassador.  hell, we all know what kind of guts your people have.  why just look how many millions of 'em those nazis  killed and, hell, they still wouldn't quit.
general, stick to the point, please.
well, sir, if the a/c's a really good man, i mean really sharp, why he can barrel that plane along so low - well you just have to see it some time.  a real big plane, like a sting ray, zig-zagging in, its jet exhaust frying chickens in the barnyard ---  has he a chance?.....hell, yes!  he has one hell of a chance.
if they come down low enough to make a firing pass, they'll never be able to pull up in time.
i think they mean business.
hang on, boys.
sorry, king.  my leg's stiff as a board.
hey, terry, i'm hit.
so am i.
listen, i think i'm hit bad.
where'd they get you?
damn you, lieutenant toejam!  lothar!
yes, major.
lothar, get up here fast, and bring your first- aid kit!  i'm hit kinda bad, i think.
can't "ace" help you?
he's dead.
what happened?
i bit his jugular vein.  now will you shut up and get up here???
sure!  sure, i'm on my way.
where'd they get you?
in the back...feels like an arrowhead.
how do you know he's dead?
hell, he looks dead.
he's dead, all right.
listen, give me a shot quick!
i don't know what we got left besides bim and bam.
quentin, how's your gear?
what does it look like?
some kind of signaling.
no kidding.
let's see...international morse, i think ...k...e...o...p...e...r...e...c...a...l... l...m...i...s...t...a...k...e...o...p...e... gee, i don't know, it seems to be some kind of code.
no, look!  it's "ope - recall mistake."
recall what mistake?
no, i think it means, "recall period mistake," and the ope is probably the crm-114 code. terry?
you sure have to hand it to those guys.
what do you mean?
i mean pulling a stunt like that.
what are you talking about?
yep, it's the crm-114 code, all right.
very interesting.
what do you mean?
well, we sure as hell aren't going home just because the enemy tells us to.
wait a minute, major.  "ope," that's the recall code.  where would they get that?
you tell me.
they must have gotten it from the base. no one else would know it.
why should they call us back?
how the hell do i know?  maybe the war's over.
lieutenant zogg, what do our orders say about the authentication of orders during an attack mission?
look, this is different.
our orders warn us to expect the enemy to use ingenuity in issuing contrary and confusing orders.  and therefore, to disregard anything that doesn't come on the crm-114.
but the crm-114 has been smashed for almost an hour.
then that settles it, doesn't it?
like hell it does.
the crm-114 is smashed, right?
right.  so how could we get any messages?
that's the point.
i don't get you, king.
i said that's the point!
look, king, maybe you've lost too much blood, or something.
lieutentant zogg, how would you like your black butt slung into a general court martial when we get back???
take it easy, major kong.
then get off my back!
there are plenty of traitors and spies running around loose.
but the code is made up by general ripper, and he's the only one left at the base who would know the code.
nobody's loyalty is beyond question.  besides, how do we know one of his staff didn't see it?
come on, king.  that doesn't make sense.
okay, how do we know they didn't shoot down one of our planes and torture the crew?  how do we know that?
we crossed the coast over an hour ago. okay?
you're giving them an awful lot of credit for being on the ball.
first lesson in war college:  never under- estimate your enemy.
sorry, king.
forget it.  okay, team, let's break it up and get ready for the kick-off.
who's that?
it's me - lothar.  are you okay?
i'm okay.  what's up?
well, i hate to say this, but i think the bomb bay doors are stuck.
are you sure?
well, i can't get out and look, king.  but i don't get a green light.
maybe the warning system's out.
but i get a red light.
have you tried the emergency system?
i tried everything.  something must have gotten bent or twisted from the pounding we took.
lothar, can you arm the bombs for impact?
but i told you, i don't think we can get the bomb bay doors open.
i asked you a question, lothar!
but how are we going to drop the bombs if the doors won't ---  hey, king....you're not thinking of --- you don't mean you'd --- ???
there's no other way, lothar.  can you re-arm the bombs for impact?
let me check.
there's no other way, boys.  i'm going to have to take her in...the hard way.
i think it's okay, king.  they should go off on impact.
would it matter if they hit at a flat angle? i mean, do you think the deuterium mass might separate from the atomic trigger?
well, it would probably help if you took it ...sort of...straight down.
roger.
gee, we hate to leave you like this, major kong.  but there isn't anything we can really accomplish by sticking around.
forget it.
well, listen, king.  could you take her up to about eight hundred?  that'll help you come in at a nice down-angle, and it'll give us a chance for our chutes to open.
sure, i'll take her up to eight hundred.
could you take her up right now, king?  other- wise we'll get kind of close to the fireball.
sure, i'll take her up right now.
listen, king, old buddy.  on behalf---
skip it and jump, damn you!  this flak's so close, i can smell it.
we're on course, major.  just fixed our position on that river back there.
what the hell are you doing here, lothar?
i thought i'd go along for the ride.
now what the hell did you want to go and do a thing like that for, lothar?
i thought maybe you'd like some company.
king, would you mind if i keep me hands on the wheel when you take her in?
i'd be mighty proud if you did, lothar.
thanks, king.  i've always wanted to take one of these big babies in.
listen, lothar.  you know that crack i made about your...butt?
forget it.
i just wanted you to know i didn't mean anything by it.
sure, king.
well, i just wanted you to know how i felt. hell, i know air command wouldn't have taken you if you weren't okay.  and don't think i don't know some of our best ball-players and entertainers are of negro descent.
at the bottom of mines?
yes.  the radioactivity could not penetrate a mine some thousands of feet deep.
in a matter of weeks, sufficient improvements for a dwelling space could be provided.
but they couldn't come out for a hundred years!
mister president, man is an amazingly adaptable creature.  after all, the conditions would be far superior to those, say, of the nazi concentration camps, where there is ample evidence most of the wretched creatures clung desperately to life.
it would not be difficult.  nuclear reactors could provide power almost indefinitely. greenhouses could maintain plant life. animals could be bred and slaughtered. a quick survey would have to be made of all the suitable minesites in the country, but i shouldn't be surprised if several hundred thousand of our people could be accomodatedd. every nation would undoubtedly follow suit.
but who would be chosen?
a special committee would have to be appointed to study and recommend the criteria to be employed, but off-hand, i should say that in addition to the factors of youth, health, sexual fertility, intelligence, and a cross-section of necessary skills, it would be absolutely vital that our top government and military men be included, to impart the required principles of leadership and tradition.
when they emerge, a good deal of present real estate and machine tools will still be recoverable, if they are moth-balled in advance.  i would guess they could then work their way back to our present gross national product within twenty years.
but, look here, von klutz.  won't this nucleus of survivors be so shocked, grief-stricken, and anguished that they will envy the dead, and indeed, not wish to go on living?
certainly not, sir.  when they go down into the mine, everyone else will still be alive.  they will have no shocking memories, and the prevailing emotion should be one of a nostalgia for those
and now, mister president, i must return at once to my embassy to communicate this reassuring news to the premier.
goodbye, mister ambassador.
we have many splendidly deep mines in our country.
excuse me, mister president, but you forgot to give me my camera back.
oh, yes, that's right.
just a second, sir.  he's got films of the war room in that thing!
i'm afraid i'll have to ask you to take the film out.
please, mister president, i am extremely shy and do not wish to endure this sort of personal humiliation.  here is the only other camera i have left.
see!  see, i told you.
you've lied to me twice - i'm sorry, but it will be strictly routine.  these men are experts.
zlat, make sure the secret service boys care- fully search his seven body orifices.
my seven body orifices????
that's right, fella.
one, two...  three, four...  five...  why you, dirty, stinking...
