your uncle has been such a friend to us in every crisis.  without his country's financial aid --
what is money?  mrs. teasdale, for you -- i would do anything.
ambassador!  i am so anxious for you to meet our new dictator.
mrs. teasdale -- no matter who rules freedonia, to me you will always be the first lady of the land.
so that is the one you want to marry.
with mrs. teasdale as my wife and freedonia under my control --
maybe it is not going to be so easy. from what I have heard, mrs. teasdale is rather sweet on this rufus t. firefly.
that is where you come in.  I will leave him in your hands, and do not forget you are supposed to be my niece.
what will i do with this card?
you can keep it -- I have got a whole pack...  now what were you saying?
in choosing you, i feel that i serve my country well.  i heartily endorse everything you stand for.
well, i will not stand for much.  and i will not stand for you if you do not show some improvement soon.  look at your report card last month -- "d" in spelling...  six in behavior. now who were the six?  a fine state of affairs -- no wonder you can not matriculate, now what were you saying?
the future of freedonia rests upon you.  promise me you will follow in my husband's footsteps.
i have not been on the job five minutes and already she is making advances to me.  not that i care -- but where is your husband?
why - er -- my husband passed away...  i was with him to the very end.
no wonder he passed away.  I would like to be with you to the very end. can not you see what I am trying to tell you -- i love you.
your excellency!
you are not so bad yourself, mrs. teasdale, when i look at you i can see that we are facing a crisis. we have got to balance the budget -- we have got to cut down everything including, you.
that is even a greater honor.
i bring you the greetings of my president and the good will of my people.
I will keep the greetings -- but you can send back the good will... what we need right now is twenty million dollars.
twenty million dollars is a considerable sum...  I will have to discuss that with my minister of finance.
well, in the meantime, could you let me have $50 personally?
$50?
I will tell you what I will do.  I will give you mrs. teasdale as security.  or my jackknife.  if you want my advice, you will take the jackknife... I have a better proposition...  make it $25 and I will give you a first mortgage on my son and i hope you foreclose.
your excellency, have not we met before?
why yes.  i met you at the dog races -- say, you could have won that race if you tried a little harder.
excellency, may i present my niece.
go ahead.
you do not understand.  this is my niece vera.
and vera niece, too.
your excellency, please do not think me silly, but I would love to have a picture of you.  i want to hang it in my bedroom.
you could not hang me in your bedroom -- I will make a note of it.  where is my secretary?
here i am, father.
take a letter.
who to?
the president of the united states.
my dear president...  read it back...
"my dear president"...
that does not sound right...  take out "president"...  now read it.
"my dear"...
that is not right yet... put back "president" and take out "dear"... how does it read now?
"my president"...
there is still something wrong with it... take out "president" ...now what have you got?
"my"...
now we are on the right track... put back "dear"... how does it read?
"my dear"...
you can not say that to the president... put back "president"... now let's hear how sounds.
"my dear president"...
that is what i wanted in the first place.  tear it up and send it airmail.
is that all?
take another letter...  to my tailor.
dear sir... enclosed find check for $100.  yours very truly...  send that immediately.
I will have to enclose the check first.
you do and I will fire you.
your excellency, the eyes of the world are upon you.  notables from every land are gathered here in your honor --  this is a gala day for us.
well, a gal a day is enough for me. i could not handle any more.
if it is not asking too much --  for our information just for illustration  tell us how you intend to run the nation.
these are the laws of my administration: no one's allowed to smoke or tell a dirty joke -- and whistling is forbidden...
we are not allowed to tell a dirty joke hail, hail, freedonia
if chewing gum is chewed, the chewer is pursued and in the hoosegow hidden...
if we should choose to chew, we will be pursued -
if any form of pleasure is exhibited report to me and it will be prohibited.  I will put my foot down; so shall it be - this is the land of the free.  the last man nearly ruined this place he did not know what to do with it.  if you think this country's bad off now just wait 'till i get through with it.  the treasury is low on dough; the last man went and flew with it.  if you think we are short of money now just wait 'till i get through with it.  the country's taxes must be fixed - and i know what to do with it, if you think you are paying too much now, just wait 'till i get through with it.
i will not stand for anything that is crooked or unfair; I am strictly on the up and up, so everyone beware. if anyone's caught taking graft and i do not get my share, we will stand 'em up against the wall - and pop goes the weasel!
so everyone beware who is crooked or unfair; no one must take a bit of graft unless he gets his share.
if any man should come between a husband and his bride, we find out which one she prefers by letting her decide.  if she prefers the other man, the husband steps outside; we stand him up against the wall and pop goes the weasel!
the husband steps outside; relinquishes his bride; we stand him up against the wall and take him for a ride.
the population must increase with great rapidity.  we give a couple seven years to raise a family. if, by that time, there is no branch upon the family tree, we stand 'em up against the wall - and pop goes the weasel.
you have made a wonderful impression. your views are liberal... it is easy to see you have an open mind.
that is what i get for dressing in a hurry.
your excellency, you must not forget your appointment at the house of representatives... have you got your speech ready?
i wrote a speech last night that will knock them off their seats...  four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation --
why, that is the speech that lincoln made at gettysburg...
he did?... i told my son not to leave it laying around... where is son?
here i am, father...
send for my car...
his excellency's car!
go out and chase that peanut vendor away from the building -- get rid of him if you have to use violence - if necessary call out the militia and if he is not looking get me a bag of peanuts.
I have tried to chase him but it is no use - he will not go -
he will not eh? - we will see about that - send for your father immediately.
but you are my father -
never mind then, I will get in touch with him myself -
how'm i doing, boss?
fine - keep on yelling - do everything you can to disturb firefly - now what about your cousin?
he is working very hard - i got him a job driving firefly's car - he's-a driving him crazy and I am driving him nuts - p-e-a-n-u-t-s
hey you!!
all right -
have you got a license?
no, but my dog he is a got millions of them --
what kind of a dog is he?
he used to be a bloodhound but he is anemic --
well - what is he now?
he is half poodle and half watch dog -
half watch dog?
yeh, he is only got one eye.
i do not know much about dogs but you ought to be on the end of a leash - a ninety-nine year leash -  look - what do you call your dog?
i do not call him, i whistle.
what do you whistle?
yankee poodle.
I have got just the place for a man like you but I am too busy right now to do any digging.  what do you call your dog when you want him?
i do not want him.
well, if you do not want your dog why do not you put him in a pound?
he only weighs ten ounces --
i can use you in the house of representatives.  we need a man who understands dogs -- and that is where this country is going to.  step inside.
in case of fire, how long will it take to empty this place?
about - thirty-four seconds.
we will start a fire --  -- and get rid of these microbes.
that was for you.
I am sorry I am not in.  i wanted to have a long talk with you...  now look here, my good man, you have got to stop yelling "peanuts" in front of the house of representatives.
oh no, i can not do it.
you do not want to be a public nuisance, do you?
sure.  how much does the job pay?  sure, if there is a chance for advancement.
you would not consider going over niagara falls without a barrel?
'at's-a no good.  i went to niagara falls once.
did you shoot the rapids?
no, but i shot some ducks.
if there was an open season for fellows like you, I would get myself a hunting license.   anyway, I am going to make you a sporting proposition. you give up the peanut stand and I will make you vice-president of the country.
oh, no -- nothing doing.  i had a brother who was a vice-president once and that is the last we ever heard of him.
well, maybe he is still the vice- president.  now if i were to offer you --
hello...  yes...  no, not yet... all right...  goodbye.  that was for you again.  he wants you to call him up as soon as you get back.
i do not know what is keeping me.  i should have been here a long time ago. now how about my proposition?
what other job you got?
let's see -- what have i got in my cabinet besides mice --  I have got it -- how would you like to be secretary of the interior?
that is no good.  i like to work on the outside.  i must have something easy.
then you do not wanna work hard?
i do not wanna work at all.
in that case you will have to take a civil service examination --  if you pass I will put you in the post-office -- stick out your tongue.
i do not wanna stick out my tongue.
well, if you wanna work in the post- office you will have to stick out your tongue.
look, I am a very nervous man.  i got to have a job where i come to work at eleven -- go to lunch at twelve -- and quit at one.  and twice a year i got to have a six month vacation.
I have got just the job for you -- secretary of war.
'at's-a fine.
you know, I would be lost without a telephone.  now - where were we? oh, yes - i just made you secretary of war.  the first thing you do is buy ammunition -- you buy it from me and i get 10% commission.
what do i get?
you get half mine and i get half yours.
i do not want to buy ammunition -- we no got to war.
then we have got to start one. do you know how to start a war?
sure, that is easy.  you got to insult somebody.
my card.
that is a-no good.  you got to insult somebody from another country.  look --  i come from one country.  you come from another country.  i say something you do not like.  you say something i do not like - and I am insulted.
why was not i insulted?
you was insulted, but you do not know it.
then i demand an apology!
that is a-no good.  if i apologize we no got a war.  look -- i send you a scrap of paper.  you send me a scrap of paper -- and we have a scrap.
you have got a brain after all - and how you get along without it is amazing to me -- now, who can i insult?...  who do we owe money to?...  ambassador trentino!  how about him?
he's-a very easy to insult --  i say something to his niece once, and he slapped my face.
why did not his niece slap your face?
she did.
what did you say to her?
you are lucky i do not slap your face -- you oughtta be ashamed of yourself. where did you hear that story?
you told it to me.
oh, yes, i remember -- and i should have slapped mrs. teasdale's face when she told it to me... I am going right out and find trentino.  you go right out and get yourself an army.
wait a minute.  what kind of an army do you think we oughtta have?
i think we oughtta have a standing army, so we can save money on chairs.
...but would further cement the relations of our countries.
ambassador trentino, i am indeed honored...  but you see - well - i --
oh.  then there his somebody else?
well no -- not exactly -- but --
gloria -- I have waited for years.  i will not be put off!  i love you!  i want you!  can not you see that I am at your feet?
when you get through with her feet, you can start on mine.  i have not been to a chiropodist in two years...  if that is not an insult, i do not know what is.  gloria, i love you.  i --
can not we go some place where we can be alone?
what can this mug offer you?  wealth and family.  i can not give you wealth...  ...but we can have a little family of our own.
oh, rufus!
all i can offer you is a rufus over your head.
oh, your excellency, i do not know what to say.
i would not know what to say either if i was in your place.  maybe you can suggest something.
this has gone far enough!  this interruption is humiliating, to say the least...
well, why not say the least and get it over with?
gentlemen!  gentlemen!
i did not come here to be insulted.
that is what you think.
you swine!
give me that again!
you worm!
once more!
you upstart!
that is it!  no man lives who can call a firefly an upstart.
i shall report this indignity the my president.  mrs. teasdale,  i feel this regrettable occurrence will plunge our countries into war.
this is terrible!
uncle, you can not do this!
my dear niece -- i must ask you not to interfere.  war is not a woman's problem.
it is every woman's problem.  who supplies the sons? -- the brothers? -- the husbands?  who...
you keep that up and you will crab the whole war.
carry out this tragic folly if you will -- but i for one will not be a part of it.  i will stay here in freedonia.
then it is war?
yes.
how're ya fixed for ammunition?
bah!!
then it is war!
send in the next girl.
by the way, are you sure we need a spy?
sure, we got to have a spy.  if we no got a spy who is going to tell the other side what we are doing?
I am glad i did not ask you for "washington crossing the delaware".
we have got to have somebody who knows how to get secrets from men.  you know how to make love?
he is going to make a good spy... that is not bad for the first day.
that is not bad for any day.
you are right about that guy -- i think we have got something.
i do not know about us, but i know he's-a got something...
this is all firefly's fault -- that idiot, that fool...
i thought everything was working out fine.
fine nothing!  i did not want war... my plan was to marry mrs. teasdale and overthrow firefly.
maybe you can still win the old dame over -- why not try to --
mrs. teasdale, I am willing to pocket my pride and do anything i can to make up with his excellency.
oh, would you...?
for you, i would do anything...
if only we can get his excellency to listen to reason...
perhaps he will listen to you...
so -- you have come to ask for clemency! I will give the enemy no quarter -- not a dime...
but your excellency -- the ambassador is here on a friendly visit...  he came to ask you to patch up the breach.
let him patch up his own breeches...
I am sorry we lost our tempers... I am willing to forget if you are.
forget?  you ask me to forget... why, my ancestors would rise from their graves... and I would only have to bury them again... a firefly never forgets...
i am willing to apologize...  I am willing to do anything to prevent this war.
nothing doing!!  I have taken a lease on the battlefield.  I would lose my deposit, besides, I have already ordered the ammunition...
oh, your excellency, is not there something i can do?
yes, but I will talk to you about that when we are alone...
oh, will not you reconsider...
well, maybe i am a little headstrong...  but, you know, it is awfully hard to forget what he called me.
what i called you...  why, what did i call you?
i do not remember.
oh -- you mean... worm?
no, that was not it...
was it -- swine?
no... it was a seven letter word.
oh yes! -- upstart!
that is it...
why - er - mrs. teasdale - this is an outrage!  this man is impossible... my course is clear...  this means war...  you runt!
i still like upstart the best.
guard them with your life... do not leave them out of your sight...  if the enemy gets those papers  we are lost.  if they do not get them, we are lost.  can not you see what I am trying to tell you?  i love you...   mrs. teasdale, you are the salt of the earth.  they do not come any better than you...
now -- er --
well -- they might come better but they do not come any bigger... and the bigger the better.  the bigger the betta you have got on a horse, the more you lose, and speaking about horses, why do not you marry me. come, come -- say yes and you will never see me again.  I will go 'way if it means your happiness...
oh, your excellency, you take me off my feet.
gloria -- may i call you gloria?
why -- why -- of course.
you can call me gloria too.  gloria -- what a beautiful name.  when i was born my mother named me gloria -- two minutes later she found out her mistake...
father...
take a letter...
who to?
none of your business...  take another letter.
eureka ammunition company -- gentlemen -- your shipment of sailor hats arrived this morning by freight --  gloria, i could go for you in a big way --  however, the rifles you sent were a little rusty --  -- and i do not say that to everybody --  have not received last month's drawing account.  how come?  your neck is like a swan...  yours very truly.  now read it back.
eureka ammunition company, gentlemen. your shipment of sailor hats arrived this morning by freight.  gloria, i could go for you in a big way. however, the rifles you sent were a little rusty and i do not say that to everybody.  have not received last month's drawing account; how come your neck is like a swan.  yours very truly...
they will know i mean business then they get that letter...  see that that gets out immediately and that goes for you too.
yes, sir.
gloria, much as i hate to leave, I would be crazy to stay here.
i wonder what is keeping his excellency?
never mind his excellency -- you gotta your pocketbook?
yes -- why?
i wanna powder my nose...
in her dressing room?  why, what could he be doing there?
he could be playing solitaire, but i do not think so.
what is the matter with you?
what is the matter with you?
you have not been still a moment since you have been here.  you act as if you had neurosis --
i no got to new-rosis.  my uncle he's- a got a flower shop -- he's-a got to new-rosis.
i shall dance for you tonight as I have never danced before.
this is a fine thing to be doing at my age.
are you getting tired?
not at all.  when i was a boy back on the farm i used to pump my own water.
are you sure you are not tired?
tired!  I would like to stretch this into a week -
i hope I am not interrupting.
take a seat -- you are next.
your excellency, something terrible has just happened.
that is all right.  I will fix you right up.
my purse has been stolen -- the plans of war are in it.
what  ?
i -- i may be wrong, but i suspect the secretary of war.
do not bother me - I am thinking -- what was that?
i said - i suspect the secretary of war.
this is treason!!  what a fool i was to listen to your siren song and fall a helpless victim under the insidious spell of your irresistible charms --
but -
you satisfied your selfish whims, while nations tottered, dynasties rocked and the world plunged headlong into a chasm of chaos and oblivion --  not bad, eh?
you no gotta no gun.
who said i had a gun... gimme those plans, you paper snatchers --
late again, eh?  you have not been on time once since this war started...  get out there and fight...
i can not do it...
why not?  you are the secretary of war, are not you?
yes, but I am not working for you any more.  I am on the other side.
is that so?  i used to think you were two-faced - but you can not be - or you would not be wearing that one. now - let's talk this thing over.
now -- how many men you got in your army?
well, we gotta one hundred thousand men.
that is not fair -- we have only got fifty thousand.
that is all right.  we let you have twenty-five thousand men -- and we both start even.
that is the spirit -- fifty-fifty.
no. seventy-five -- seventy-five.
well, we will let that one go.  now -- how many battalions you got?
we gotta two battalions and one frenchman.
i wish you were still working for me, so i could ask you to resign. how're ya fixed for cavalry?
I have got to five thousand men but no horses.
that is funny, we have got five thousand horses but no men.
that is all right -- our men can ride your horses.
not a bad idea.  if our horses get tired they can ride your men for a change.  now, i do not mind letting you have our horses, but you must promise to put them through their maneuvers.
oh, sure.  we have horse maneuvers every morning.
with a gun like that you can kill some of your own men.
that's-a pretty good.  I will take a dozen of them.
anything else?
yes, one gross of bullets, two dozen hand-grenades, three kegs of powder -- and throw in some matches.
fine.  we will throw in the matches before we make the delivery.  by the way, how're you fixed for spys?
fine.  we gotta him.
so! -- he is on your side, too.
sure.
well, with you two fellows on the other side, this country should have no trouble keeping the wolf from the door.
chicolini, you have come just in time. we need a man who is fearless, brave. a man who is willing to die, if necessary.
all right -- I will go out and find one.
firefly must be captured at any cost.
that is easy, I will get him for you wholesale.
it must be done right away.
i can not do it right away.
from what i have been gathering, i think they think i should be king: i think they think i should be king!
he should be king!
and wear a crown and everything.
and everything.  he should be king!
you know i think they think i should be king.  although it would please me to govern the throng, suppose i were king and then everything went wrong.
the king can do no wrong!
of course you are all aware a king must have an heir some one to pass the family name along will some one tell me where I would ever get an heir if a king can do no wrong
the king can do no wrong!
suppose a pretty dame into my castle came - and let us say that i was going strong.  she might be stuck on me, but what good would it be, if the king can do no wrong.
the king can do to wrong!
king solomon was game he gave each girl his name to number them would make a list that long I will bet his thousand wives led miserable lives if the king can do no wrong.
we really think he should be king and wear a crown and everything.
they think i should - they think i should - they think i should - they think i should be king.
