"i know thy works and thy labour and how thou canst not bear them that are evil. and thou hast tried them who say they are apostles and hast found them to be liars". revelations ii.
what the hell does it mean?
it means who is side are you on?
you did not ask me to meet you 30 miles from my office for a bible study class.
it is a bi-partisan issue. everyone needs to swallow hard. no one, including you, wants to be fingered as the one obstructing efforts to crack down on terrorism, and--
fuck you.
what?
i said fuck you.
is that anyway to talk to an old school chum?
you are going to finger me as soft on terrorism? <i>terrorism,</i> you unconscionable asshole?
there are planes falling out of the sky, buildings blowing up. <i>american</i> buildings. <i>americans</i> getting bombs in the mail. what are we gonna do!?
we are not going to hand you and your band of lunatics the keys to the kingdom. I am not going to sit in congress and write a law that allows the nsa to point a camera and a microphone at anything they damn well feel like. and the next time you have something to say to me, we do it above-board, in my office, like everyone else. now get outa my car, I have got a committee meeting on the hill.
well that is why I am here, mr. dean. 'cause you are a labor lawyer.
good point.
last night, larry spinks, he works the steel press, he goes to a bar with his wife rosalie to have a glass of chianti 'cause it is his birthday, and these two guys, these guido mother-fuckers, they jump him when he goes to the bathroom.
l.t., in this office I would prefer you say italian-americans.
I am sorry, mr. dean. but larry's in st. lukes now, so I am a little--i'm not myself. the union bosses say unless we take bellmoth's offer, it will only get worse.
that is because your union bosses are those guido mother-fuckers.
i do not under--
the union's trying to railroad you into accepting terms worse than what you have now.
why would the union--
because they have been paid off by bellmoth.
mr. dean--
my name's bobby. I am your lawyer. do not do anything 'till i talk to you.
how is the trout?
it tastes like fish.
it is fish.
i mean it tastes like every other fish I have ever had. every fish tastes the same.
do you like fish?
not that much.
here's what you asked for. brill's note said it was everything you would need to, shall we say, coax depinto--
when do i get to meet him?
depinto?
brill.
never.
that was not the answer i was hoping for.
what answer were you--
"soon". or at least sooner than never.
it is how he works.
brill?
yes.
so you have said.
ten thousand cash. i do not know if it is brill's prices going up or your commission.
i take a straight 15 percent. brill's fee varies with risk. perhaps you would be more comfortable using someone else.
other than brill.
other than me.
why would i--
someone with whom you do not have quite so personal a--
i like our history. and i like you. I would probably like brill if i ever got to--
he does not work that way.
i just want to make sure I am not breaking the law.
you are not.
how can i be sure.
i would not let you. good luck with depinto.
thank you.
eat your fish.
mr. depinto? my name's robert dean. I am an attorney with seth, silverberg.
what can i do for you?
well, i was hoping you might stop by my office to swear out a criminal deposition against some of your friends and co-workers.
is this a fuckin' joke?
i do not believe it is, no.
why the hell would i--
I have got photographs of you at the trenton ramada looking very--
that am not me.
it is not?
you do not know who the fuck--
that is not you having a whiskey sour with carmine morada.
this is fucked. you do not know who's in that--
you are right, mr. depinto, and maybe i jumped the gun.
you are goddam right you jumped the gun.
that is probably not you in the picture. i tell you what, I will just run the thing by the grand jury, see if they can't--
i want to talk to a goddam lawyer.
good news there, mr. depinto, you are talking to one.
zavitz, what? you want your old job back?
listen to me--
tired of chasing squirrels around the park?
listen--
lemme ask you something. i put a bird feeder out in the yard, but the squirrels, they keep taking--
turn on cnn.
they keep taking the bird seed. i thought since you are the expert on--
goddammit, shut the fuck up and turn on cnn!
alright, i made a joke about squirrels, do not get so--
do it!
you have got it on tape?
clear as day.
who else have you told?
no one. but I am a little nervous.
when can you get it here?
I am doing a transfer now.
come straight here. do not talk to anyone.
I will come straight there.
be careful, danny.
god knows i would, sir, but i have a previous engagement this evening.
and may i ask what could possibly be more important than fawell oil v. u.s. environmental agency?
i have to go lingerie shopping.
diane, maybe you did not hear mr. silverberg. they have got models that will try on the garments.  thank you, sir.
merry christmas, son.
yes?
federal express for 'zavitz'.
federal express?
for daniel zavitz. i just need a signature.
how did you get in the building?
the door was open, sir. i just need a signature.
do you see anything you like?
I am married.
that is fine.
I am married to my wife...of several years...and I would like to buy...as a christmas present...
you would like to buy your wife some lingerie as a christmas gift.
yes. i have her permission.
it is okay. i think it is a wonderful gift.
can you help me?
how 'bout christian dior?
is that good?
very good.
i do not know anything about this. well, i mean, i know a little about--from a certain perspective. my point is, i do not want to do anything foolish.
it is a little late for that.
I will say.
what size?
pardon?
what size?
eight.  size eight.
I will be right back.
thanks.
remain calm.
okay.
it is me, robert dean.  from seth, silverberg. i worked on--
bobby--
it is been a few years.
yeah.
I am just doing some christmas shopping. it is for my wife, no kidding. though, this is not the <i>main</i> present, it is just, you know, a little--
i need help.
tell me about it.
how can i reach you?
are you okay?
are you still in crystal city?
yeah, what is going on?
i think she will like this very much.
listen, daniel, hang on one second.
for that matter, i think you will too.
could you give me just a moment to talk to a friend of mine here? not about this, but...daniel?
excuse me, have any of you seen an eight year old boy, good looking, about yea-big.
hi, dad.
hi, mr. dean.
hello. hello, maria.
you are learning a cruel lesson.
are those my christmas presents?
some of 'em.
can i open 'em up?
sure, go ahead.
really?
in your dreams.
dad!
you staying for dinner?
is it okay?
you got any money?
he is kidding.
where is mom?
she is in the kitchen.
hey.
this guy's a fat-assed rotarian gasbag.
uh-oh.
listen to him.
bobby!
not a very good one, but--
so you tap everyone's phone? you use computers to probe financial records? new search and seizure laws?
just for the criminals.
we will not suspend the civil rights of the good people.
right.
you should take this seriously.
i think you are taking it seriously enough for both of us.
you are a lawyer. do not you care what is going on around you?
something bad happened tonight.
what?
i saw a man die.
what do you mean?
in front of harrison's, he got hit by a bus. i knew him. the firm did some pro bono work for his organization a few years back.
I am sorry.
the thing is, when i saw him, it seemed like he wanted to tell me...  ...he was upset about something and he said...  does not matter now.  I am going to wash up.
what did you buy at harrison's?
a toaster. and no terrorist talk at dinner. you are spookin' the kids.
what happened?
he is dead. an accident. hit by a bus.
what about the tapes?
we found the originals.
the originals?
there was a transfer.
am i to understand--
he never made it to the newspaper, but there was private sector contact.
who?
several indiscriminates and one primary who we have id'd as robert dean. a crystal city attorney.  mr. reynolds?  sir?
contact cointel. profile. assess the threat. then cross-check against zavitz. red-flag the intersects and anything we can exploit. also nro. pull up the keyhole tapes. i need to own him. i need to own him now.
what is your opinion?
it is hard to say for certain, these things are--
I am not asking you to say for certain. this is what you are trained to do, right?
yes sir.
then what is your goddam opinion?
zavitz had digital compression equipment. he could have downloaded into something. a disk, a chip, anything small enough to put in his pocket and run with. whatever he put it in, he dropped it in that bag.
get it.
we would have to--
get it.
bobby?
yeah.
how did you get the information on depinto?
what do you mean?
who did you work with to get the--
a guy named brill. same guy as always.
yeah, but you said you have never met him. how did you--
honey, i do not like to talk about this stuff in front of eric.
have you been working with rachel?
no.
sorry.
it is okay.
they took the espresso machine. the <i>espresso</i> machine, jerry! which makes sense, you know, because the crooks probably wanted to make themselves a latte before fencing the stereo.
did they take your clothes?
no.
you have got a bunch of armani suits, they did not take 'em?
no.
usually they take clothes.
why do not you give 'em a call.
what about jewelry?
they did not take the jewelry. they took the computers. they took the big-screen tv, they took my blender.
the blender?
i love my blender.
they did not take the silverware?
no, but they took my blender.
sounds like they did not want anything that was not electric?
what?
they only took electrical appliances.
serve the ball.
yes?
i did not want to bother you during your racquetball game.
thanks.  who are you?
I am sorry. detective morelos.
hey, did you guys find my stuff?
your stuff?
the robbery.
no, sir, I am not involved with that. I am doing a quick follow-up on a bus accident took place a few nights ago. your name keeps coming up.
oh...yeah, i did not see the accident.
witnesses said you were there, but i notice you did not file a report.
a report?
a police report.
that is 'cause i wasn't there.
you were not at harrison's department store the night before--
i was in the store, the accident was outside. it was a bus.
someone said you spoke to mr. zavitz before he died. i thought you might know something.
about what?
about the accident.
I am no expert, but I am assuming that the impact of a moving bus against his body caused--
mr. zavitz was in trouble.
what kind of trouble.
you tell me.
i can't.
are you invoking attorney/client privilege.
I am not his attorney.
than why can not you tell me.
because i do not know.
I am just trying to determine if mr. zavitz was involved in something more than a simple bus accident.
than why do not you talk to the bus driver?
why so edgy, mr. dean?
somebody took my blender.
we would appreciate your cooperation.
I am happy to help you all i can. but i did not see the accident and i barely knew daniel zavitz. I have got to go to work.
did he give you anything?
no.
anything at all?
no, sir.
was he with anyone?
not that i could see.
nobody gave you anything?
no.
why did you go to harrison's?
to buy lingerie.
for your wife?
yes, for my wife, what the hell kinds of questions are these.
i thought maybe it might be for rachel banks.
i do not know what is goin' on with zavitz, but that was way, way outa line.  you understand?
yes sir.
dick burns got a phone call this morning from someone wanting information on you.
the police?
no. he said they were doing a credit check. are you refinancing a loan?
you remember daniel zavitz?
yeah.
he got hit by a bus.
what does that have to do with you?
i honestly do not know.
was zavitz in trouble?
i do not know.
you think there was a connection to--
jesus! i just told you. i do not know.
yeah?
we would like to ask you some questions about daniel zavitz.
who are you people?
I am an investigator with pro-tech security.
i went through this with an investigator this morning. if i could--
mr. zavitz was involved in an extortion scheme. we believe he passed you sensitive materials, possibly with your knowledge, and we need to--
he didn't.
we believe he did.
you are wrong.
we have good reason to believe that he passed you--
if he passed me materials, I would have them. i don't.
we would like to recover any materials mr. zavitz may have given you--
he did not give me--
--otherwise we may have to--
otherwise you may have to what?
we would rather not--
fuck you. you may have to what?
he did not give me--
--otherwise we may have to--
otherwise you may have to what?
we would rather not--
fuck you. you may have to--
he is arrogant and threatening. voice stress points suggest he is worrying.
hiding something?
it was in his bag. now it is not.
destroy his credibility before he goes public. neutralize him. i do not want anyone listening to a word he has to say. tell me about rachel banks.
can i talk to you a second?
table 122?
that is what i want to talk to you about?
i wrote a check for a thousand dollars. you guys did not have a table that was in the kitchen?
the congressman's very happy to have your support, but he is heard that there is an investigation.
an investigation? it was a bus accident.
he is heard that it is escalated.
into what?
your bellmoth case. the fbi thinks there might be mob ties.
I am a labor lawyer. there are always mob ties.
just be cool.
i do not understand why jerry could not clear this up.
well, you know--
he is got his priorities?
there is just, clearly, some administrative snafu. I am sure this is the worst of it.
i got a call from my firm this morning saying do not come in.
why?
there are reporters wanting to know about my relationship with you and how long I have worked for the mob. the mob, bobby!
all right, look--
listen--
i got a call this morning from a source i trust. the post is running a lead this afternoon about your involvement in the bellmoth investigation.
i do not under--
we have also been informed that the grand jury is going to call for an investigation into your affairs.
why?
they want to hold you in contempt for ethics violations.
they claim you helped create a shell company for sam vollotti in zurich and that through your continuing relationship, the gambino family's been able to exert influence and provide false witnesses to discredit our case.
oh, well, that is true.
it is?
except for the part about my setting up a company in zurich and knowing anyone named sam vollotti and having any relationship whatsoever with the gambino family.
robert--
gimme a week and four guys from litigation and I will have the post pleading with us not to sue for libel.
tell us about rachel banks.
rachel banks?
what kind of a question is that?
a direct one.
i have a professional relationship with rachel banks. she is the go- between for a private investigator i use.
what is his name?
brill.
why do not you just call brill directly.
i do not know who he is.
I am told you had an affair with rachel banks four years ago.
told by whom?
considering the enormous exposure to which you have subjected this firm, I would think you would do best to simply answer my questions.
really?
yes.
well considering what a colossal douche bag you are, david, maybe I would do best to simply kick your ass all over the capitol.
gentlemen--
this is bullshit. someone is mixing up a bunch of half-truths to ruin me and to ruin my case.
who would do that?
maybe bellmoth. maybe the unions. i do not know.
well until we find, you are going to have to take a leave of absence.
you are firing me.
a leave of absence. until we have sorted this all out.
put david on it. he seems anxious to clear my name.
bobby--
fuck off.
robert--
where is stacy?
she does not want to talk to you.
what are you talking--
she can not talk to you right now.
why?
because she is reading the newspaper, you asshole.
stacy?
how could you let me find out like this?
stacy, i found out like this. this is the first I am hearing of--
robert--
it is not true.
"sources revealed an fbi investigation into a possible money laundering scheme that may have sent millions of dollars--
I have seen it.
"at the center of the investigation are well-known washington-area attorneys robert dean and rachel banks."
yeah...look--
you swore!
i have lunch with rachel once a month. she is my connection to an investigator.
i told you i did not want you seeing her.
i know.
you had an affair with this woman, robert, we went to a fucking counselor for a year.
i see her for business.
you told me you were not seeing her at all.
i did not want you to be upset. i should not have lied. stacy, there is nothing between me and rachel banks.
the date stamp on the picture is last month. is that where you and rachel conduct business.
it is not real...  that is not me.
oh, please--
it is not a real picture, stacy, it is been doctored-up.
i think you should leave now, robert.
stacy--
leave this house.
I am sorry, sir, this card's been declined.
it is a brand new card.
maybe it is not connected yet.
here, you can use this.
my suitcase--
sir?
my suitcase is gone.
I am sure we can locate it for you, sir.
do not count on it.
I am sorry. I am not sure i understand. you wanna fuckin' what?
I would like to speak to someone about what is happening to me.
actually, that is not true.
you did not squeeze depinto?
no, i meant I am presbyterian.
oh.
my wife's jewish. but that probably does not matter right now.
what is it you want?
someone is trying to destroy my life, and I would like to find out who.
and then what?
I will see if i can, you know, work things out.
well we would sure like to help you.
you would?
yes. but we can't.
why not?
because we, and our associates, have paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to shyster lawyers like you, because of shyster lawyers like you, and we would just as soon sit back and sip a beer while you get ass-banged by as many people as possible.
i know, but--
wildlife footage, for god's sake. i do not see how he could have slipped you something that the fbi would be interested in.
that is my point.
what's your point.
well, i need to find out as much about daniel as possible.
why?
because my life is being ruined.
daniel's life is already ruined. maybe if you guys stopped thinking about yourselves for a change and--
good. you are just what i need right now.
you got a minute?
it is really not a good idea for me to be seen with you.
who is doing this?
i gotta go.
will you hang on just a second.
i know.
the irs contacted me this morning. they say my lifestyle and receipts exceed my income.
you being audited?
for the last four years.
my firm'll represent you. free of charge.
you do not work there anymore, bobby.
that is temporary.
bullshit.
rachel--
we are screwed.
I am going to fix it.
how?
tell me about brill.
i can't.
you have to.
I have never met him?
goddammit, rachel, you assured me--
fuck you. when you needed information, i got it. you did not care how.
i did care how.
this conversation's over.
what are you going to do, rachel? you going to sit in a bar in baltimore? you want your job back? you want a life?
i do not have a life, bobby. I am in love with a married man.
I am sorry about that.
what makes you think it is you?
it is not me?
you are a moron, you know that?
yeah.
any idea what he looks like?
my guess is male, somewhere in his 40's or 50's.
jesus! what?! you want money?!
shut the fuck up.
your shoe.
my shoe?
gimme the shoe.
brill?
brill's dead. he died of small pox when he was two and he was buried in a kansas field.  my name does not matter.
what happened?
it started with the information you gave me on depinto. after we talked, he agreed to resign. next, a phony detective asked me about daniel zavitz. then an investigator questioned me about an extortion scheme they claimed zavitz was behind. the fbi started looking into mob connections. a doctored picture in the paper. overnight, I am ruined. wife. job, bank accounts, everything gone.
depinto's dead.
oh jesus.
they found him yesterday folded neatly in a car trunk. what about zavitz?
i do not know anything about zavitz.
you said he was behind an extortion scheme.
they said he was behind an extortion scheme.
and you were the last one to talk to him.
yes.
what did he say to you?
nothing.
what did he give to you?
nothing.
do not bullshit me, i can save your life.
I am telling you, i--
i just gave him my card.
he did not give you an address? he did not give you a phone number?
nothing. two nights later i was robbed. I am pretty sure they were pros.
um...who's that?
do not know. did you check everywhere? maybe it was hidden in something. maybe there was someone else--
someone else?
maybe you bumped into someone who took it and you did not even know.
209 to anyone! i need some help here!
who are you calling?!
stacy, do not hang up.
do you know what I am looking at robert?
stacy--
I am looking at a picture of you and rachel taken yesterday.
i know, but listen--
was that doctored-up, too?
no, i was with her yesterday. i want you to take eric and go to our parents house. i want you to do it right now.
i went to the grocery store. my atm and credit cards did not work. i could not buy food.
i know.
i went to the bank to see why. they said you emptied our accounts--
it was not me.
this is science-fiction robert! the manager showed me the transfer notice with your signature on it.
stacy, somebody is trying to kill me. now goddamit--
my father's put me in touch with an attorney. he will be--
30 minutes ago you said we had him. what in hell's goin' on out there?
he had help.
help from whom?  christ.
hey!
forget me, forget what i did for you. do not ever mention my name or try to contact me again. get it?
i do not know you, i do not know your name, i do not know what the hell you did for me except hang up on my wife and slam me into a wall, but I am getting pretty fuckin' sick of this! get it?!
seat 74.
you are brill.
you knew the deal. no contact.
who was that other guy?
one of many people who would live a word with you.
who are they?
you have heard of the national security agency?
what do they have to do with this?
that is who they are.
the nsa?
yes.
you are crazy.
okay.
wait.
you drive a black bmw, license plate srk1339?
yeah.
i clipped this from your wheel well just before they towed your car away.
what is that?
it is a sat-tracker.
i do not know what that means.
like a lowjack, but two generations ahead of what the police use. it pulses at 230 giga-hertz.
i do not know what that means.
230 giga-hertz. they use that band for the aquacade spy-sat uplinks.
i do not know what that means.
it means the nsa can read the time off your wristwatch.
why are they after me?
if i knew, they would be after me. which they probably are right now. 'bye.
wait. what do i do?
pal, you are cooked. it is over. what you did, who you were...that's done. I would find a quiet job somewhere shoveling snow.
why do not they just identify themselves and tell me what they want?
they are spooks.
i do not know what that--
exposure. they can not have it. they wanna learn what you know and then deal with it.
i do not know anything.
no shit.
what am i gonna do?! i mean, like, for the rest of my life?!
hey, if you live another week I will be impressed.
what if--
look, you gave me some work over the last year. we will call it even.
what if i find out what they are after. you know these people, i don't.
and you won't. now move--
I will pay you.
they froze your accounts. get outa my way.
how many years have you been hiding from them? how many years have you been running?  what did they do to you?
if you find something, chalk the baltimore sheraton mailbox and go to temperanceville. it is south of salisbury.  and take this.
i sit on top of the greatest intelligence gathering organization in human history. why can not i bring in a man whose name <i>is in the</i> <i>fucking</i> <i>phonebook</i>?!
he is clever. he had help.
he is clever? he had help?  oh.
sir--
no, no, I am sorry. i did not realize you were hoping to be transferred to a weathership outside greenland.
i just meant--
i do not care if he is solomon with saint joseph sitting in his lap. i want the tape and i want him. now is--
yes?
puffed cheese?
no thank you.
i also have tiny pizzas and mushrooms stuffed with--
do i look like i want a tiny pizza?
no.
then let's assume i don't.
yes sir.
now is that clear?
yes sir.
jerry--
christ!
ssh!
bobby--
it is the nsa. they are the ones doing this.
bobby--
the nsa's doing this 'cause they think i have something. and they killed--
calm down.
they killed rachel.
rachel's dead?
yes.
jesus.
my stuff's all over her apartment.
bobby--
they are framing me.
why would they--
i do not know. i mean--
why would the nsa--
i do not know!
you are tired.
jerry--
listen to me.
you gotta--
no, listen to me. you gotta let me bring you in.
no, i--
you gotta let me bring you in to the police.
i will not make it to the police. they will not let me get there. you go.
to the cops?
to the nsa. make a deal. tell 'em to stop. tell 'em i do not have what they are after. make a deal.
bobby, you are in way over your head.
go to 'em, jerry.
i have a family.
so do i!
I am sorry, man.
no. no, it is okay.
bobby? piece of advice?
yeah?
turn yourself in.
jerry?
yeah?
go fuck yourself.
is eric in school?
yes.
has anyone been by? police? fbi?
just reporters.
i wish you would gone to your parents like i asked you.
this is my house. nobody's kicking me out of my house. i picked those drapes.
i do not think anybody wants the drapes, stacy, i think the drapes are okay.
what happened to your head?
i was in a car chase and a small explosion. now listen to me: the nsa is behind this. they think that guy i told you about, daniel zavitz, they think zavitz gave me a tape or computer chip of some kind that could be damaging to them. so they are doing all these things electronically. the bank records, the surveillance. they are the ones who broke into the house. now i know there is no reason to believe me. but i love you. and i love our son. so just believe me anyway.  please.
does that hurt?
well...yeah.
good.
stacy--
i told you they could do this. i told you they had this kind of capability and that with this anti- terrorism it would be just another--
stacy...stacy...maybe now is not the best time for the i-told-you-so speech.
I am sorry i did not believe you.
that is okay.
i opened the present you got me from harrison's.
you opened the thing?
the lingerie.
that was for christmas.
i was missing you.
you are as bad as eric. I have got an entire family of people who root through--
...who root through...uh...presents, and...
what is it?
oh christ.
dad!
do i know you?
where have you been?
having an adventure. i can not tell you about it right now, but I will tell you about it soon.
are you and mom getting a divorce?
no. we are never getting a divorce. we were having a fight. it happens sometimes.
who won the fight?
men do not win fights with women, son, I will tell you about that sometime, too. in the meantime, I have got a question for you, and it is incredibly important that you tell me the truth. under no circumstances will i be angry with you. this is a total get-out-of- jail-free card. ready?
yeah.
did you take anything--anything at all--out of those christmas bags i brought home last week.
hey, mr. d., what is happenin'?
dylan, i was just asking eric if--
oh, god, i knew it was stupid, i knew we would get caught. but the gameboy was just sitting there. right on top of the bag. yes. yes. we took the gameboy out of the bag, but with every intention of putting it back.
you are a tough nut to crack, dylan.
get dressed. we are leaving.
you could knock on the door, you know, and I would open it.
move it.
i taped it off the 11 of the clock news.
and you were worried about me. that is nice, i appreciate--
i was worried about my hundred and twenty 'k'.
we said a hundred.
the price rises with the temperature and right now you are smokin'. but you are right, you should shop around and get the best price. I will just let you out here.
one-twenty.
did you call anyone?
what do you mean?
i mean did you call anyone.
look, my wife is understandably--
jesus!
i called my wife!
what did i tell you?
i did not use my name.
what did i tell you?
i called from a payphone!
what did i tell you?
you told me no calls.
i told you no calls.
sorry.
you do not get it. they go through your phone records. they fuckin' monitor everyone you called in the last--
i did not use my name.
oh, I will bet that threw 'em off the scent. i sure hope you covered the mouthpiece with a handkerchief and used a funny voice!
the nsa's been in bed with the entire tele-communications industry since the 40's. they have infected everything: banks, computers, phones, mail, name it.  the more technology we buy into, the easier it is keeping tabs on us. it is a brave new world.  at least it better be.
how do you know so much?
none of your business.
you used to work for 'em, did not you?
i was a traffic analyst.
i intercepted phone calls.
how did you get around the tap orders?
they can tap anything as along as it is an airwave intercept. cellulars and pagers your kid can do.  hard-line calls we would pick off the relays as they were being fed into ground cables or fired up to the sats. we would suck in everything. all foreign, most domestic.  domestic was my group. druggies, radicals, loud-mouths. anyone we wanted.
how did you have the manpower to--
meade has 18 underground acres of computers. they scan every phonecall for target words like "bomb" or "president". we red-flag phone numbers or voice prints...whatever we wanted. when the computers found something, it was bounced to comparative analysis.
jesus.
that was twenty years ago. with digital? they can suck a salt grain off a beach.
why did you leave?
it was '72. i figured we had enough problems without monitoring a berkeley kid's class schedule. so i sold my story to ramparts and split.
they come after you?
well...there'd be too much disclosure to prosecute me. so they ruined my records and made sure I would never hold a real job again.
what do you think?
looks like detroit.
welcome to santa's workshop.
that is one ugly sunrise.
it really is.  did you find anything?
yeah.  take a walk with me.
remember when senator hamersley died in an accident up near shenandoah?
yeah.
the nsa killed him.
jesus. do you have proof?
well, actually, you have proof. could you walk a little faster please.
what is going on?
they are here.
who?
them.
where?
here?
here?!
in the warehouse. they are hiding in a duct on the third floor. when we go back inside, they are going to kill us. when they notice that we are moving toward the car, they will come running out of the building.
'kay, well, could you walk faster, please.
empty 'em 'till they are almost flat. and turn your head. there might be some debris flying your way.
why?
what the fuck?!
they should not have come without calling first.
gimme that.
you sure?
you are driving.
those are feds.
i did not see a warrant. did you see a warrant?
think we let out enough air?
oh my god...
we lost 'em.
that was not so hard.
fuckin-a.
let's not do the tire thing anymore, okay?
yeah, i can see where that'd--
these guys are incredibly persistent.
tell me about it.
drive.
we are not going to hurt you.
drive.
tell him we are not going to hurt him.
drive or I will blow your fuckin' head off.
no he won't.
goddammit--
we are honest people and we need your help. I will give you two- hundred dollars if you--
we found two sets of latent prints in the rubble of brill's studio. one was dean's. the other, we believe, belongs to brill.
we believe?
well...his real name's edward lyle.
lyle?!
yes sir.
you are kidding me.
no sir.
dean's with lyle.
and they have the video. that is confirmed.
so they know everything.
if they have looked at the video.
oh, let's assume that they have.
if he is with lyle it means he is got resources.
resources, that is a good point. he is got resources. all we have got is a <i>six-hundred billion dollar</i> <i>organization!</i> now goddammit, hicks, you find 'em. you find 'em and you end it now!
listen to you, "directly". you are not going to get near the news department. and if you did, it would never get on the air. time-life buried the zapruder film for 15 years.
what about newspapers and magazines?
same thing?
so what do we do now?
i was thinkin' about asking for my hundred and fifty grand and calling it quits.
what if we do a mailing to congressmen.
it would never get through. all packages are screened, x-rayed and then hand-searched for explosives. you did not like my "give-me-my- money" idea?
what if we hand deliver to their homes or office?
the area's wired for surveillance, they will be looking for those moves.
well how do i know what they're--
i know. i know what they are looking for and I am telling you.
what if we transmitted it over cellular?
listen--
nah, they would shut down the pin number.
what if--
if they could not do that, they would shut down the whole system, all the relays.
what if--
they have done it before. takes maybe two minutes.
what if--
what if what?
what if we just fucked with 'em?
how?
same way they did with you and me. we take their biggest guy and turn him into one of us.
reynolds.
no.
who?
you wanna get caught spying on albert?
no, i want the nsa to get caught spying on albert.
we are going to lead albert by the nose to one conclusion. and then when he is pissed as hell, we are going to drop the tape in his lap. how fast can you teach me what i need to know?
how fast can you learn?
pretty fast.
we will have to re-stock some basics.
what do you know about locking cellular phone signals?
i know my phone number and i know the number for sportsphone. beyond that--
shit.
what are you dialing?
ameritech's data-base.  there is albert's d.c. office address and his phone's identity code. now we just reprogram out phone with his id code and you know what we have got?
--don't think it could have gone any better. tell me, how is deb? how're my grandchildren?
a receiver tuned permanently to the senator's phone.
baudmore consultants.
is jerry delsano in?
who is calling?
it is pat cary. i work for senator sam albert and i was given jerry's name.
jerry's on vacation 'till monday. i can give him the message when he gets back. that was patrick and the last name--
the thing is...it really can not wait.
my name's neil. maybe i can help you.
well, sir, I am afraid it is not as simple as that. your average newspaper guy or hard copy lady or whatever, they can not buy this stuff.
well then who can?
ah, sir, you know, it is not for me to say.
what do you mean? who can buy this kind of equipment.
the thing is, senator, and i do not want to get in the middle of nothing, but--
what are you saying?
most of this stuff's only available to law enforcement.
law enforcement?
fbi, cia, nsa, local cops.
are you sure about this?
i yanked this off your rv. it is a global positioning tracker.
oh my god.
tracks your location to the inch and works directly with--you know...
with what?
with spy satellites. i do not like saying these things senator...
neil, thank you for your help.
anytime.
he came in four minutes ago.
c'mon.
feeling lucky?
not particularly, no.
we are not stupid, reynolds.
the fuck do you have goin' on with sam albert?
this guy's carrying the flag for the damn terrorism bill. you think this is the best time to piss him off?
you have any idea what kind of position this--
he is carrying the damn flag.
it was pulsing on your sat frequencies.
i do not know what is going on, but if you people have tripped over your own asshole again, you are not going to get any help from us. it is ending at your doorstep.
what about--
we do not know.
explain that.
jones had to flee the scene before we could locate the second body.
what about the tape?
we think it was on brill. if it was, it is destroyed now.
and if it wasn't?
are you sure you are safe?
yeah.
they are saying you killed that policeman.
that is going to end tonight.
found him. kent island nailed the call five minutes ago. he is stationary.
do you have visual?
not yet. he is near "m" and 34th. I have got an elsur unit on the scene now. a residential building. twelve units.
what is your eta?
three minutes. we are going in light. myself and two others. everyone else is held back in reserve.
he walked right up to me in church. at the holiest time of the wear. he approached me in a sanctified place.  kill him now.
it is actually dh-1 digitech pinpoint scanning with a frequency modulator.
i do not know what that means.
me neither, but the upshot is I have got color live-action footage of you and ms hawkins and it does not look good.
so...how much money do you want in exchange for not ruining my life?
i do not want any money. and believe me, i have no interest in ruining your life. I am not interested in this tape.
you are not.
is it over?
it is over.
how long can you stay?
I am not goin' anywhere, eric. i live here.
it is okay to use the phone.
alright!
no "900" numbers.
it is really over?
albert's going to get me my job back.
I am sorry about rachel.
yeah.  i wish you could have met...
who?
a friend of mine. i do not know his real name. he is dead now.
you did good.
