tony marvin.
oh, jesus.  who is responsible for his pain and suffering this time?
his dry cleaners.  you want him?
what do you think?  what is this?
tequila.  from your drug dealer friend.
carlos is not a friend; he is a client.
he is a low-life.  speaking of which, that is your nine of the clock in there.
whoa.  remind me.
erin brockovich.  car accident.  not her fault, she says.  and she looks like such an honest girl, do not you think?
you should not judge, brenda.
right.  lap-dancers are people too.
they took some bone from my hip and put it in my neck.  i did not have insurance, so I am about seventeen thousand in debt right now.
... could not take painkillers cause they made me too groggy to take care of my kids.
... matthew's six, katie's four, and beth's just nine months.
... just wanna be a good mom, a nice person, a decent citizen.  just wanna take good care of my kids.  you know?
yeah.  i know.
seventeen thousand in debt.  whew.  is your ex-husband helping out?
which one?
there is more than one?
yeah.  there is two.  why?
so.  you must have been feeling pretty desperate that afternoon.
what is your point?
what?  hey -- he hit me.
so you say.
he came tearing around the corner, out of control --
an er doctor who spends his days saving lives was the one out of control --
that asshole smashed in my fucking neck!
open and shut?  open and fucking shut?
if you had not used profanity --
oh, please, it was long over by then.  god damn, he made me look like some cheap --
i told you the questions might get a little personal --
bullshit.  you told me I would get half a million dollars.  you told me I would be set.
okay -- let's try and settle down here.
settle down?  i got 74 bucks to my name, mr. masry!  i can not afford to settle down!
I am sorry, erin.
yeah?  well, fuck you.  sorry does not feed my kids.
hi, sweetie.  were you a good girl?  where are matt and katie?
outside with the sprinkler.  so it is good?
it will be fine, yeah.
ai, bueno.  because i did not want to tell you before, with your worries --
what?
my daughter, she is bought a big house with a room for me.  I am going to move in with her.
you are moving away?  when?
next week.
wow, that is soon --
i know.  but it is good for me.  now i can help my daughter take care of my grandkids. and it is good for you, too.  now you have money, you can find a good babysitter, huh? not the old lady next door.
put your napkins in your laps and eat up.
how come you are not eating?
what the hell is this doing here?
it is those files you asked for.
i did not mean for you to leave them in the middle of the floor.  jesus.  look at me. what do i have this afternoon?
nothing you can not show up for with a stain.
what is she doing here?
who?
you never called me back.  i left messages.
you did?  wow, sorry about that.  listen, mario's a little not so bright.  he seems to think that you said --
there is two things i can not stand, mr. masry. being ignored, and being lied to.  you did both.
i never lied.  i may have miscalculated -- that happens sometimes, but --
you said things would be fine, and they are not.
I am sorry about that.  really.  but --
i do not need pity.  i need a paycheck.  and I have looked, but when you have spent the last six years raising babies, it is real hard to convince someone to give you a job that pays worth a damn.  so i figure, since you are the one who said i was going to be okay, you should be the one to hire me.
okay, look.  if you really want to apply for a job here, you can do it the way everyone else does.  send in a rsum, make an --
I am not everyone else, mr. masry.  I am someone you made promises to that you did not deliver on.  i trusted you.  with my kids' well-being.  now, I am smart, and I am hard- working, and I will do anything.  but if you think I am leaving here without a job, you got another thing coming.
... what we do in here is keep track of all the case files.  that way, at any time, we can find out a case's status -- where it is in the office, stuff like that.  we file 'em all here, alphabetically --
oh, hell.  I am dyslexic.
that is a joke, right?
yeah?
i was wondering -- could you tell me who I would talk to about maybe getting an advance on my paycheck?  just -- for the weekend.
jane's the office manager.  she handles payroll and petty cash.  but she leaves early on fridays.
oh.  okay.  that is okay.
all i have is hundreds.
i do not wanna take your money, mr. masry.
bullshit, you don't.
mommy, can i get a flower?
sweetheart, you can get a whole big bunch.
well, hello to you, darlin'.
what the hell do you think you are doing, making all that goddamn noise?
just introducing myself to the neighbors.
well, I am the neighbors.  there, now we are introduced, so you can shut the fuck up.
ooh, now, see, if i'da known there was a beautiful woman next door, i'da done this different.  let's start over.  my name's george.  what is yours?
just think of me as the person next door who likes it quiet, and we will get along fine.
now, do not be like that.  tell you what. how about if i take you out on a date to apologize for my rudeness?
you want my number?
i do.
which number do you want, george?
you got more than one?
shit, yeah.  i got numbers coming out of my ears.  like, for instance, ten.
ten?
sure.  that is one of my numbers.  it is how many months old my little girl is.
you got a little girl?
yeah.  sexy, huh?  and here's another: five. that is how old my other daughter is.  seven is my son's age.  two is how many times i been married and divorced.  you getting all this?  16 is the number of dollars in my bank account.  454-3943 is my phone number. and with all the other numbers i gave you, I am guessing zero is the number of times you are going to call it.
give her a cold washcloth to suck on --  i got to go -- there is a clean one in that bag -- I will check back in a bit.  sorry.  my kid --
where is anna?
out to lunch with the girls.
oh.  huh.  well, look, i got this file i need valued. real estate thing.  a lady has some property next to a pg&e plant that pg&e wants to buy. i need to know what to ask for it.
you do know how to do that, do not you?
yeah.  i got it.  no problem.
good.
you are a girl.
excuse me?
how come you are not at lunch with the girls? you are a girl.
i guess I am not the right kind.
anna?  with this real-estate valuing stuff - - could you remind me, cause I am a little confused about how exactly we do that.
erin, you have been here three weeks.  if you do not know how to do your job by now, i am not about to do it for you.
no.
c'mon.  i bought 'em for you, to make up for that night.
return 'em.  maybe you will get your money back.
i had a good neighbor, george.  she was 60 and mexican and she watched my kids for free.  something tells me you are not going to be able to measure up to that.
you need help with your kids?  i could probably do that.
I am not going to leave my kids with you.
why not?
cause i do not even know you.
yeah, and whose fault is that?
yeah.  I am probably ruining them.
how?
I am never here.  i got to leave 'em with this weird sitter all afternoon who costs a fortune and smells like chicken fat.
i was serious before, you know.  if you need someone to keep an eye on them -- after school or something -- i do not have a job now, so I am around in the afternoons.
great.  another deadbeat.
I am not a deadbeat.  i work when i need to.
yeah?  and what do you do the rest of the time, live off your trust fund?
i do construction, which pays real good. and i make it last by living cheap.
i hope that is not supposed to impress me.
are you this hard on everyone who tries to help you?
it is been a while.  maybe I am just out of practice.
then lemme remind you, the polite thing is to say, thank you, that is a real nice offer, i do not mind taking you up on it.
why in the hell would you want to watch my kids?
cause i like kids.  i like hanging out with them.
right.
you are around every afternoon?
yup.  usually working on my bike.  no big deal.  if it does not work out, you can send 'em back to the chicken fat lady.
this is not going to get you laid, you know.
yeah, we will just see about that, will not we?
i mean, it is not a problem or anything, but -- I am just a little unclear on what those things are.  i thought maybe you would know.
what do i look like, erin?  a library?
masry & vititoe, can i help you?
hi, rosalind, this is erin.  brockovich. from the file room?  i was wondering if you could tell mr. masry that I am following up on that real estate thing out of the office.
dr. paulsen?
yes?
hi, I am erin brockovich.  i was just over in the library there, asking a mess of questions about -- i guess they call it epidemiology? -- and the fella there told me to find you, cause you know all about it.
is this a joke?  did baxter put you up to this?
who is baxter?
he did, did not he?  baxter!
oh.  oh.
no one put me up to anything.  i was just hoping i could ask you a couple questions.
of course!  oh, gosh, of course --
well, look, there is not a ton of information here, but from what there is, I would say that these two people here -- what are their names?  shanna and ashley?
right, i guess those are the kids --
they have both got some immune system problem. can not say what from, whether it is viral or genetic or what, but something is wrong.  and these guys -- donna and peter --
their parents, I am pretty sure.
well, from what this stuff says, I would say they both have some form of cancer.
hi.  donna irving?
yes?
I am erin brockovich, from masry & vititoe?
you are a lawyer?
hell, no.  i hate lawyers.  i just work for them.  you got a minute?
this is a real nice place you got here.
well it oughta be, with all the work i put into it.
i added air conditioning, put in the pool, made all those pillows by hand ...
yeah?  i should learn to do stuff like that. they make the place feel real homey.
thank you.  i think so too.  that is why I am being such a stickler on this house price thing.  i do not mean to be a pain in pg&e's backside, especially after all they have done for hinkley, but i look around here and i think, if they want this place, they are going to have to pay for it.  and i do not just mean pay for the house; I would like them to pay me for the trouble of starting over.
right.
cause first you got to move, then there is decorating, and if the windows are not the same size, you know -- you are making all new curtains.  honest to god, i do not know if i have the energy.  you know, I have been sick. me and peter both have.
yeah, I am real glad you brought that up.  i was going through your file here, and i ran into these medical records.  they kinda surprised me --
i know.  they are more than a bit unusual. see, two years ago, pete got hodgkin's disease.  that is a kind of cancer --
yeah, I am real sorry to hear that.
thank you.  it is in remission now, thank the lord, but you never know.  and then while that is going on, i end up having to have a hysterectomy.  plus a whole mess of lumps removed from my breasts.  all benign so far, but still, no matter how positive you stay, an operation can still take it out of you.
I will say.  holy moley.
so the whole idea of selling the house -- do not get me wrong, I would be glad to move to some better place, but if they are not going to pay us properly, i just do not see the point.
yeah, i can see that.  i guess the only thing that confused me is - - not that your medical problems are not important, but -- how come the files about them are in with all the real estate stuff?
are you kidding?  with how our lives are, if i start subdividing files, I will be sunk.  i just kept all pg&e correspondence in one place.
right, but -- I am sorry, i do not see why you were corresponding with pg&e about it in the first place.
well, they paid for the doctor's visit.
they did?
you bet.  paid for a check-up for the whole family.  and not like with insurance where you pay, then wait a year to be reimbursed, either.  they just took care of it.  just like that.  we never even saw a bill.
wow.  why would they do that?
cause of the chromium.
the what?
the chromium.  well, that is what kicked this whole thing off.
what is chromium?
it is a chemical they used over at that compressor station up the road there.
well, hell, maybe that is why you all have been so sick --
i thought the same thing, right off the bat. that is why we went to see the doctor.  but hunh-uh.  turns out one's got nothing to do with the other.
seems like an awful big coincidence -- your water being messed with and you being so sick.
not around here.  this is a rough part of the world.  hard times, not a lot of money, not a lot of luck.  it is a challenge, staying healthy in a town like this.  heck, even our dogs up and die.
what are you doing?
better safe than sorry.
I am going to put a dead bolt on your front door, too.  this is not exactly the safest neighborhood in the world, you know.
thanks for reminding me.
i guess we get what we pay for, huh?
you think it could make you sick, living in a place like this?
what do you mean?
... and when i realized our area's just as bad as hinkley, i thought maybe my neighbors are all sick too.  so i went and asked.
you did?
uh-huh.  spent the last few days knocking on doors.  and you know what?  they are not.  i mean, they got problems, but none of this cancer stuff.  and their pets are fine.  so i do not know -- i just can not shake the feeling that it was not no multivitamin they put in the water.
well, if you are talking about contamination, you are getting out of my area of expertise. let me give you the name of a toxicologist friend of mine over at usc.
i gotta say, erin -- first time i saw you, i did not peg you as the kind to go off and conduct her own epidemiological study.
do not go telling anyone.  it will ruin my reputation.
what kind of chromium is it?
there is more than one kind?
yes.  there is straight-up chromium -- does all kinds of good things for the body. there is chrom 3, which is fairly benign, and then there is chrom 6, hexavalent chromium, which, depending on the amounts, can be very harmful.
harmful, like -- how?  what would you get?
with repeated exposure to toxic levels -- god, anything, really -- respiratory disease, liver failure, heart failure, reproductive failure, chronic headaches, bone or organ deterioration -- plus, of course, any type of cancer.
so that stuff -- it kills people.
oh, yeah.  definitely.  highly toxic, highly carcinogenic.  bad, bad stuff.
well, how do i find out what kind of chromium is up in hinkley?
have you been to the water board?
hunh-uh.  what is that?
every county has one.  they keep records of anything water-related within their jurisdiction.  you should be able to find something there.
county water board.  all righty, thanks.
good luck.  oh -- i would not advertise what you are looking for if i were you ...
oh, hey -- lemme give you a hand there.
thank you very much.  are not you a gentleman?  mr. ...
ross.
ross.  real pleased to meet you.  I am erin.
erin.  cool.  what can i do for you, erin?
well, believe it or not, i am on the prowl for some water records.
you come to the right place.
i guess i did.
you just tell me what you want to look at and I will be glad to dig 'em out for you.
i wish i knew.  it is for my boss.  he is fighting his water bill, and he wants me to find all manner of bills from all kinds of places.  the easiest thing would probably be if i just squeezed back there with you and poked around myself.  would that be okay?
heck, yeah.  come on back.  just gonna need you to sign in here --
pattee?  that your middle name?
nope.  maiden.
you are married.
not anymore.
where have you been?
what the fuck did you do with my stuff?
do not use language with me --
someone stole my stuff.
nice to see you, erin.  we have missed you.
i had photos of my kids, plus a mug --
-- toothbrush, toothpaste, and a pair of hose.  here.
what is going on?
there may be jobs where you can disappear for days at a time, but this is not one of them.  here, if you do not do the work, you do not get to stay.
erin, you have been gone for a week.
i left a message.  I have been dealing with that real estate thing.  i was going to write up a whole damn report and --
that is not how we work here.  you do not just leave a message and take off.
what am i supposed to do, check in every two seconds?
yes.  it is called accountability.
i am not talking to you, bitch.
excuse me?
okay, enough --  now, look, erin -- this incident aside, i do not think this is the right place for you. so what I am going to do is make a few calls on your behalf.  find you something else, okay?
do not bother.
come on, I am trying to help here.
bullshit.  you are trying to feel less guilty about firing someone with three kids to feed.  fuck if I will help you do that.
what are you doing here?
fixing a leak under your sink.
great.
I am going to clean it up.
what kind of person lives like this?  huh? what kind of person lets her kids run around in a house crawling with bugs the size of housecats?
it is a simple thing.  everybody gets them. all we got to do is call an exterminator.
i can't call an exterminator.  i can not afford one.  god, i can not even afford my phone.  i got fired.
what?  but you been working so hard --
does not matter.  does not make one bit of difference.  oh god, george, how did this happen to me? how did i end up so ... so nothing?
you are not nothing, erin.
well, I am sure as hell not what i thought i was going to be.  i was supposed to have one of those great lives, with everything all laid- out and perfect.  i mean, hell -- i was miss wichita, for god's sakes.  did i tell you that?  you live next door to a real live beauty queen.  i still got the tiara.  i kept it cause i thought it meant something.  i thought it meant i was going to do something great with my life.  i thought it proved i was going to grow up to be someone.
you are someone.
no I am not.  look at me.  I am not.
you are someone to me.  you are someone real special to me.
what are you doing here?
i got an interesting call this afternoon. it was from a dr. frankel.
oh, yeah?
he wanted you to know the legal limit for hexavalent chromium, is .05 parts per million.  and that at the rate you mentioned, .58, it could be responsible for the cancers in that family you asked about. the irvings.
well, that was nice of him.  is not it funny how some people go out of their way to help people and others just give 'em the ax?
look, I am sorry.  you were gone.  i just assumed you were off having fun.
now, why in the hell would you assume that?
i do not know.  maybe cause you look like someone who has a lot of fun.
boy, are you ever a shitty judge of people.
so what is the story on this thing?  this cancer stuff?
you wanna know, you gotta hire me back.  i got a lot of bills to pay.
but, pg&e told her about the chromium?
they told her something, but it can not have been too specific, cause i talked to her, and she sure did not think her water was bad.
so what made you think it was?
it does not take a genius to look at those medical records and think something is wrong.
what medical records?
the ones in the box of files.  the box of files?  the one from your office?
i did not see any medical records in there.
boy, you musta really fine-tooth-combed it then, huh?  and you fired me.  jesus.
that document you found, the one that says it was the bad chromium -- you did not happen to make a copy did you?
course i did.
lemme see it, will you?
i want a raise.  and benefits.  including dental.
look, erin, this is not the way i do business, this extortion nonsense.
okay.  a 5% raise, and --
ten.  there is a lot of other places i could work.
a ten percent raise and benefits.  but that is it.  I am drawing the line.
this is the only thing you found?
so far.  but that place is a pig sty.  i would not be surprised if there is more.
find out.
there is no way a son of mine hates funky town.  it is impossible.
well i hate it.
i hate it too.  i hate this trip.
oh, come on, where is your sense of adventure?  we are going someplace you never been before.
I am going to hate it.
yeah.  a real moron.
some kind of half-wit, no-good, big-haired, bimbo, i bet.
yeah.
thank god we got you away from her, huh?
you know what, erin?  i got nothing but time here.  why do not you let me do that for you, and you can get your kids some dinner.
ross -- you are an absolute angel.
fax these to this number, okay?
all of 'em?
all of them.
an on-site monitoring well?  that means --
it was right up on the pg&e property over there.
and you say this stuff, this hexavalent chromium -- it is poisonous?
yeah.
well -- then it is got to be a different than what is in our water, cause ours is okay. the guys from pg&e told me.  they sat right in the kitchen and said it was fine.
i know.  but the toxicologist i been talking to?  he gave me a list of problems that can come from hexavalent chromium exposure. and everything you all have is on that list.
no.  hunh-uh, see, that is not what the doctor said.  he said one's got absolutely nothing to do with the other.
right, but -- did not you say he was paid by pg&e?
I am telling you, the minute brenda sent the fax -- I am talking the second she pressed that send button -- pg&e claims department is on the phone to me, scheduling a meeting.
so you think we got 'em scared?
it sure as hell sounded like they were sitting up and taking notice.
250,000?
in terms of land value out in hinkley, mr. masry, we feel it is a more than fair price.
what about in terms of medical expenses? 250,000 does not come close to what this family's going to have to spend on doctors.
i understand they have had a bad run of luck, health-wise, and they have my sympathies. but that is not pg&e's fault.
you are kidding, right?  look at these readings for christ's sake. pg&e's own technicians documented toxic levels of hexavalent chromium in those test wells, on numerous occasions.
a million things could have caused those problems.  poor diet, bad genes, irresponsible lifestyle.  our offer is final and more than fair.
wait a minute -- i thought we were negotiating here.
250,000 is all I am authorized to offer.
mr. masry, before you go off on some crusade, you might want to remember who it is you are dealing with here.  pg&e is a 28- billion dollar corporation.
thanks.  I will keep it in mind.
at least they made an offer.
that was not an offer.  a million would have been an offer.  when they send the god damn mail clerk down to jerk me off, waste my time, it is a fuck you.
i do not get why they would do that.
because they can.  you heard that kid -- they have 28 billion dollars at their disposal.  they can afford to waste all the time in the world.
and you can't?
what, you think I am made of money?
tell you what, why do not you go on over to reception, tell them i said mario should take you to the airport.
hey, excellent.  thanks.
mr. masry, mario gets lost going to the bathroom.  they will be driving around the valley for hours.
yeah.  is not that a shame?
you have been reading for hours.
I am a slow reader, on account of the fact that i look at the word "dog" and see "god".
hey, just so long as you see him.
excuse me, are you erin brockovich?
yeah.  who are you?
when donna told us about you, and what you told her about the chromium, we figured that might have something to do with this, too.
it sure could, yeah.  thanks a lot.
there is something else, too.
what?
i know.  it is an awful lot.
I am surprised donna did not say anything.
look, i know you are mad.  but the way this job is, things come up at the last minute, real important things, and i got to deal with them.  now i do not like me missing dinner any more than you do, but we are all going to have to get used to it, cause the fact is, it is going to happen sometimes.
it happens all the time.
that is not true; we had dinner together just last night.
boy, do i know how you feel.  first time i heard that number, i said you got to be kidding me.  forty god damn percent?
erin --
I am the one who is injured, and this joker who sits at a desk all day is going to walk away with almost half my reward?
erin --
then i do not get anything either.
and i realized, he is taking a chance too.
you know that thing it says in here about rashes?
uh-huh?
well, this old neighbor of mine, bob linwood -- he ran the dairy on community -- seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other.  i just figured it was something in the genes.  and you know how it is -- you do not like to ask about things like that ...
hunh-uh.  absolutely not.
that is crazy -- why not?
because i said no.  look -- the only reason pg&e's even talking to us is cause this is a quiet little real estate dispute.  we add plaintiffs, and suddenly we are in the middle of a toxic tort -- with a statute problem -- against a massive utility.  no, thank you.
okay, so here's what I will do.  I will go on up to ted and rita daniels -- two of the nicest people you would ever hope to meet, who spend every single day watching their little girl fight like a dog against this cancer -- I will tell them we can not help them cause you do not feel like working that hard.
it is not about working hard --
bullshit.
-- it is about being realistic.  something like this, erin -- it could take forever. they are a huge corporation.  they would completely bury us in paperwork.  I am just one guy with a shitty little p.i. firm.
-- who happens to know they poisoned people and lied about it.
and this shit is bad news, mr. masry.  not only does it attack every organ of the body, it fucks with your dna, too.  that means these people's genes, and the genes of their kids, and the genes of their grandkids --
i know how dna works, erin --
we can get these people.  with a little effort, i really think we can nail their asses to the wall.
oh, you do?  with all your legal expertise, you believe that?
okay, fine.  i do not know shit about shit. but i know the difference --
how many families we talking about here?
four more.  eleven people.  so far.
you think there is more?
well -- i found one document at the water board that had a toxic test well reading from 1967.  a hell of a lot of people have lived on that land since then.
this is a whole different ball game, erin. a much bigger deal.
kinda like david and what's-his-name?
kinda like david and what's-his-name's whole fucking family.  okay, here's the deal -- if, and only if, you find me the evidence to back all this up -- I will do it.  I will take it on.
you are doing the right thing, mr. masry.
yeah, yeah.  remind me of that when I am filing for bankruptcy.
what now?
another raise would not hurt.  and with all the time I am going to be spending on the road, I will probably be needing my own cel phone, will not i?
george, i am just trying to do something nice for my kids on my one day off.  could you please not give me a hard time about it?
one toy per kid is doing something nice. four is ... something else.
well, hell, i guess that is it, then, huh? they are scarred for life.  they are going to start holding up 7-11's any day now.
I am just saying --
i know what you are saying, and i do not wanna hear it.  i am doing the best i can.
I am not going to quit cause of one creepy phone call, george.
come on, erin.  a job's supposed to pay your bills, not put you in danger.
I am not in danger.  i have a dead bolt. remember?
look, do not take this the wrong way, but do not you think you might be out of your league here?
no, see -- that is exactly what those arrogant pg&e fucks want me to think -- that because they got all this money and power, we do not stand a chance in hell against them.  but you know what?  they are wrong.
it does not have to be this complicated, erin.  there is a lot of jobs out there.
how would you know?
you mind telling me what that is supposed to mean?
nothing.
if you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
i did not say that.
cause i can get a job.  i will.  and you can start leaving the kids with the chicken fat lady again.  would that make you happy?
keep your voice down.
i know what they can sleep through, erin.  i probably know it better than you.
hey, ross.  tell me something.  does pg&e pay you to cover their ass, or do you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
i do not know what you are talking about.
the fuck you don't.  no one calls me pattee. that heavy-breathing sicko that called the other night could have only found out about me from you.  people are dying, ross.  you got document after document here, right under your nose, that says why, and you have not said word one about it.  i wanna know how the hell you sleep at night.
I am so tired I am about to drive off the road.  keep me awake, willya?
what do you want, a joke?
no, no jokes, i gotta pee.  just tell me about your day.  what went on back there?
well, come to think of it, we did have a big event around here.  beth started talking.
what?  beth?  my beth?
yeah.  we were sitting around at lunch and she pointed at a ball and said, "ball."
is that what i think it is?
she lived on the plume.  you never know.
I am bored, and so are the kids.
just a few more minutes, then we can go.  take her, will you?
you wanna talk about --
no.
I am embarrassed.
that is okay.  i understand.
it is just -- the pain.  it is only getting worse.  i can not be a good wife.  i can not be a good mother.
I am real sorry, laura.
know what i always thought i wanted outta life, erin?  a jaguar.
jaguar's a darn pretty car.
i thought if i could spend that kinda money on a car, it would mean everything else was fine.  i do not even know how much they cost.
a lot.  but you hang in there, maybe you will get one.
they used the hex chrom here, in these cooling tanks, as an anti-corrosive.  then they dumped it here, in these six ponds.
i do not remember seeing any ponds up there.
they covered 'em over.  and not too carefully either, cause you dig one inch under the surface, and the dirt is green as a fucking shamrock.
and that is what caused the contamination?
it did not help, but no.  the real problem's on the bottom.
see, according to this, they were supposed to line the ponds so this shit could not seep into the ground.  but guess what --
they skipped that step.
i guess it was a little too inconvenient. so for fourteen years, this stuff flowed into the groundwater, free as you please.
jesus.  i do not even wanna ask what you did to make this melendez guy talk.
for your information, frank cares what was in those ponds 'cause he used to spend half his day wading around them.  that was his job.
no shit.
no --
erin -- lemme tell you something.  if i'da put three researchers on this, i would not expect them to dig up all the information you got here.  this is some damn good work.
yeah?  then gimme another raise.
hey, i got a staff to pay, plus rent, plus i have not billed a minute of my time since i started on this case, so you can quit hitting me up like I am rich or something.
do not give me that.  you are going to get plenty rich off of this, mr. 40 percent.  we got those pg&e fuckers by the balls here.
we have got the pg&e fuckers in hinkley by the balls.  but nobody's getting rich unless we can pin this on the corporate pg&e fuckers in san francisco.
what do you mean?
pg&e corporate is claiming they had no way of knowing what was going on in hinkley.
oh, they knew.  they had to know.
show me the document that proves that.
then they did not know.  and if they did not know, we can not hit 'em for punitive damages. and punitive damages is where the money is.
jesus christ, ed -- you know, the more i work on this thing, the more i realize what a crock of shit this legal system is.  here we got a company that poisoned a whole aquifer -- that built a pool for a town, then filled it with toxic water -- and we're the ones who have got to bust our ass proving things?  that is just not right.
i like this case.
really?  it makes me sick.
me too.  that is why i like it.  it is been a long time since i had a case i cared about.
you did not care about my case?
i would now.
hey.  i like working with you.
well, good, ed.  i like working with you too.
I am just saying -- we have one night to ourselves, why do we have to spend it here?
cause it is my office party.  if you had an office, I would go to your party.
that is ed.
lock the door.
no, i wanna say hi.
it would not kill you to talk about something other than yourself and your own fucking job once in a while --
what do you want to talk about instead? your day?  that is a fascinating subject.
fuck you.  just cause i do not spend all day trying to prove what hot shit i am --
that is not what I am --
bullshit, erin.  bullshit.
sure wish i had longer to get used to the idea.  you think if you got no uterus, and no breasts, you are still technically a woman?
sure you are.  you are just a happier woman, cause you do not have to deal with maxi-pads and underwire.
if they have sent that little shmuck baum again, I am going to be real pissed off.
from their tone of voice on the phone, I would say they are taking us more seriously.
yeah, i heard that one before.
jesus.  they look like the secret service.
they are trying to intimidate us.  tell them to wait in the conference room.
um, erin?  listen.  even though you are not necessarily my favorite person in the world ...  ... sometimes you are not half-bad.
I am going to assume that was meant as a compliment, anna, and just say thank you.
hey.  a new plaintiff called, wants to meet you.  i told him we would be out there thursday.
d'you get his name?  course not.  jesus, ed --
he said he would be at the gas station at six.
boy, this job takes me to some of the best damn places, huh?
someone is following me.
what?  who?
some guy in a truck -- he waited till i was alone, then he followed me, like, two miles. jesus, I am shaking.  get me a beer.
what kind of truck?
i do not know.  big.  dark.
he is gone.  did you get a license plate?  or a make?
no, ed -- what with me running for my life, i did not have time to check those things --
i was just asking.  are you all right?
yeah.  yeah, I am ... fine.
what are you doing?  where is george?
i do not know.
george!
what is going on?  what are you doing?
thinking.
about what?
about this.
what is that?
it is a pair of earrings.  i saw 'em in the mall one day, and i thought, damn, those would look good on those beautiful earlobes. so i bought 'em.  and i said to myself, next time erin says something nice, does something nice, I will surprise her with 'em.  know how long ago that was?  six months.  in six months, you have not said one nice thing to me.  that is a long time.
I am sorry.  I am just working so hard --
i know.  but still.  six months.  i think you oughta either find a different job or a different boyfriend.  cause there may be men who do not mind being the maid and getting nothing in return, but I am sure as shit not one of 'em.
i can not leave my job, george.
yeah, you can.  you could just quit.  people do it all the time.
i can't.  look -- this job -- it is the best thing that ever happened to me.  i mean it. for the first time in my life, i got people respecting me.  up in hinkley, i walk into a room and everyone shuts up just to hear what i got to say.  i never had that.  ever. do not ask me to give it up.  i need it.
more than you need me.
i need it.
you already packed up your stuff?
i pretty much knew what your answer was gonna be.
where is my paycheck?
have you been logging on?
what?
i moved payroll onto the computer.  it only knows to process paychecks for employees who log on in the morning and off at night.
now how'm i supposed to do that when I am not in here most mornings and nights?
you are clever.  I am sure you will think of something.
i want my fucking money --
I am sorry, I am going to have to put you on hold for just one second here --  do you mind?
yeah, i mind.  you bet your ass i mind.
oh, jesus.  you wanna tell me what the problem is here, or --
it is my paycheck.  which i earned.  which i deserve.  which i should not have to beg for. that fat-ass bitch will not give it to me.
erin, you are a big girl.  if you got a problem with jane, work it out for yourself. i do not have time to deal with --
fuck you.  make time.  cause i bust my ass for you.  i watch everything else in my life go straight in the toilet, for you.  and what do you do for me?  huh?  you see the way I am treated around here -- but have you ever stood up for me once?  have you ever mentioned to everyone what good work I am doing?  have you ever bothered saying, hey, erin does not get paid the most cause she has the best tits; she gets paid the most cause she is the best god damn employee I have ever had?
is that what you want?
i want my paycheck.  by the end of the day.
I will see what i can do.
you might want to think real hard about the amount, too.  my kids are sitting in the god damn parking lot right now, cause i still do not make enough to afford good child care. makes me think about looking around for a job where I am appreciated, for shit's sake.
can i play roller hockey?
we will see.
when?
randy's mom said yes right away.
well, god damn it, matthew -- randy's mom does not work eighteen-hour days, and randy's dad did not leave her, so figuring out who is going to take who where is a little easier over at randy's house.
what kind of things come up?
things like the head counsel for pg&e calling me with an offer.  20 million, plus attorney's fees.  take it or leave it.
whoa.  no shit.
it is about 50 thousand per plaintiff.
so what are you thinking?
I am thinking ... i wish someone else had to make this decision.  50 thousand bucks is more than any other california toxic plaintiff has gotten. ever.  but ...
... but it will not cover annabelle daniels's medical bills.
and it is less than pocket change for pg&e.
do you think we would do better by going to trial?
maybe.  but maybe not.  we still do not have anything linking this to pg&e corporate. plus, there is the statute problem.  plus, we are way short on manpower, so we would need to bring on more lawyers ...
plus, 40 percent of 20 million's a whole lot of money.
it is eight million dollars, erin.  eight million dollars.
holy shit.  who do they represent, god?
do not joke.  they might.  so do me a favor and behave yourself for once.  ed masry to see kurt potter.
when'd they file the demur?
yesterday.
what is a demur?
it is pg&e saying to the judge that we do not have a case.  their lawyers go --
how many counts?
sixty-nine.  we have got good answers to all of 'em.
counts?
reasons pg&e thinks it should not go to --
who is the judge?
corey.
good.
why good?
he is got a reputation for doing all his --
hey -- those are my files --
yeah, we had them couriered over.  and listen, good work.  they are a great start. we are just going to have to spend a little time filling in the holes in your research.
excuse me -- theresa, was it?  there are no holes in my research.
no offense.  there are just some things we need that you probably did not know to ask.
do not talk to me like I am an idiot, okay?  i may not have a law degree, but I have spent 18 months on this case, and i know more about those plaintiffs than you ever will.
erin.  you do not even have phone numbers for some of them.
whose number do you need?
everyone's.  this is a lawsuit.  we need to be able to contact the plaintiffs.
i said, whose number do you need?
you do not know six hundreds plaintiffs' numbers by heart.
annabelle daniels.
annabelle daniels.  714-454-9346.
okay, look -- i think we got off on the wrong foot here --
that is all you got, lady.  two wrong feet. in fucking ugly shoes.
she insulted me!
bullshit.  it was a misunderstanding.  but instead of handling it politely, instead of treating her with respect --
why the fuck should i respect her?
because that's how people treat each other!
not in my world.
gee, i wonder why.
I have also been thinking about the team. responsibilities, who should cover what --
right.
i think we should makes some changes.
hey, erin, i thought you were taking a sick day.
so did i.
what is going on in there?
some meeting.  with pg&e people.
pg& -- are you sure?
yup.  they must be important, too, cause they came on a special plane.
if you tell me to relax, I am going to kick your fucking head off --
erin, it is just a meeting.
people do not fly down in their own god damn plane for "just a meeting" --
look, you said you were not feeling great.  i thought you should rest.
bullshit.  you would drag me off my deathbed if it suited you.
okay, look.  it is an important meeting. kurt thought, if it was just lawyers --
kurt thought?  what about you?  do you think anymore?
look, this is serious now.  they are talking serious money --
and, what, I am not serious?
you are emotional.  you are erratic.  you say any god damn thing that comes into your head.  and I am not saying that is bad.  that can be great; that can be a lot of fun --
"fun?"  jesus, "fun?"  i kill myself for a year and a half, hand you the best case of your life on a god damn silver platter, remind you of why you became a lawyer in the first place, and you think of me as "fun?"
okay, now you are making this personal, and it is not --
not personal?  that is my work in there, ed. my sweat, my labor, my time.  if that is not personal, i do not know what is.
how dare you take that away from me.
no one's taking anything --
bullshit.  you stuck me in siberia dictating to some god damn steno clerk so you could finish this thing without me.  after all I have done for you, that is the thanks i get.
do not give me that.  you have gotten plenty. you have been well-paid; you have gotten lots of perks ...
perks?  jesus -- perks?
god damn it, matthew.  what the hell are you doing out here?
I am going to go live with george.
we will work out the roller hockey thing, okay?  whatever you want, we will work it out. i promise.
you always say that.  then you go to work and forget you promised.
i never forget, honey.  i try, real hard. it is just, for some reason, i do not seem to be able to organize things right and -- when it comes to you guys, i end up falling short.
you never fall short for the work people.  i guess maybe you just love them more.
oh, god, sweetheart, no.  there is nothing on earth i love more than you.  nothing.  i promise.
meningitis?  what the hell is meningitis?
it is an inflammation of the spinal cord and part of the brain.
jesus.
she must be a tough cookie, cause it is a pretty advanced case.  I would say she is been walking around with it for a few weeks now.
how does someone get meningitis?
usually, in adults, it is from exposure to bacteria or a virus or ...
... or lemme guess -- toxic waste?
they said that would be tomorrow.  they just wanna keep an eye on me another night.
fine.  I will drop 'em off tomorrow afternoon.
thank you.
mm-hm.
if you are here to fire me, your timing's lousy.
I am not going to fire you.  i wanted to.  but then you got sick, and that woulda made me look like a shit.  you embarrassed me, erin.
i know.  I am sorry.  do i get to hear what happened anyway?
between 50 and 400 million, definitely?
uh-huh.
and if you had to guess ...
with nothing linking it to the corporate offices yet, I would say we will end up on the lower end of that.  still a lot of money.
so why would pg&e offer it?
because.  they know the evidence; they know they are going to lose a jury trial.  maybe they would not lose 400 million bucks, but once you factor in all they would spend on this case in the next ten years, it makes a lot of --
wait, what do you mean, ten years?
five years, maybe, for a trial.  double that for the appeal.
I am sorry, are you saying that if this thing goes to trial, it will be ten years before these plaintiffs see their money?
hey, that is not so bad.  compare it to the love canal -- that was twenty years ago, and those people still have not seen a dime.  so in legal terms, ten years is --
fuck legal terms.  we are talking about human beings here.  sick people.  a whole bunch of them are going to be dead in ten years.  they need their money now!  we got to get 'em to agree to the arbitration, ed.  we got to get every damn one of those plaintiffs to --
i know.  we are having a meeting, it is all set up --
when?  where?
tuesday at seven, at the hinkley firehouse.
okay, good.  i think i should be the one to tell 'em, cause they trust me more than --
you are not going to be there.
the fuck I am not.  i do not care what the doctor says --
this is not doctor's orders.  it is mine.  I am saying you can not come.
why not?
because kurt does not want to work with you. he thinks you are a loose cannon.
fuck kurt.
erin --
no, I am serious.  you know what kurt potter is?  he is the kind of guy who never would have taken this case in the first place. he is the kind of guy who would have sold these plaintiffs down the river when pg&e offered 20 million.  he does not work like us, ed.  there is no little voice in his head telling him to do the right thing.
hello?
hi.  it is me.  i got a favor to ask you.
i do not do favors for you anymore.
it is not for me; it is for my kids.  you are the only one i trust them with.
they up?
hunh-uh.  not yet.  look, do not take any of 'em on your bike, okay?  call a cab if you wanna go somewhere.
how long's this whole thing going to take?
i do not know.  few days.  thanks for helping me.  i appreciate it.
and i miss you.
yeah, well -- good help is hard to find.
think you could learn?
you know me.  i pick things up real fast.
you should not be driving around, you know. you are sick.
yeah, but I am going to get better.  a lot of these folks aren't.
you would not happen to have a little time right now, would you, donna?
for what?
well, i was gonna head over to the browns now.  i was thinking -- mandy really values your opinion ...
what time is it?
real early.  we are just going to take your car to get some breakfast.
no, i need my car --
we will just be a minute.  get a little more sleep.
she is one of the sick people?
yeah.  she is.  but you know what?  that is why I am helping her.  so she can get some medicine to make her feel better.
how come her own mom is not helping her?
cause her own mom's real sick, too.
promise you will turn around if you get tired.
i will.  bye.
i was working in the compressor, and out of nowhere the supervisor calls me up to the office and says, we are going to give you a shredder machine, and send you on down to the warehouse.  we want you to get rid of all the documents stored out there.
did he say why?
nope.  and i did not ask.
did you get a look at the stuff you destroyed?
well, it is pretty boring work, shredding -- you got to find some way to entertain your mind.  so yeah, i took a look.
and ...?
there was a lot of dull stuff -- vacation schedules, the like.  but then there were a few memos about the holding ponds.  the water in them.  they had readings from test wells, stuff like that.
and you were told to destroy those?
that is right.
course as it turns out, I am not a very good employee.
what do you mean?
well.  there were a few documents that i somehow did not get around to shredding.  that i kept instead.
how come you did not say anything when you found these things?
at the time, i thought, i got six kids, some of 'em want to go to college.  i can not afford to lose my job.  i told myself i was being honorable.  but there is nothing honorable in what i did.  maybe that is why they picked me for the job. maybe they knew what kind of man i was.
hey, ros, where are they?
in the conference --
morning!
erin?  what are you --
you know what, mr. potter?  i completely forgot your birthday this year.  and seeing as how you have been so good to me, i think that is a terrible oversight.  so what i been doing over the last few days is I have been putting together a present for you.
ho - ly - shit.
oh, now do not get all jealous, ed.  i got a little something for you, too.
i do not know what to say.
say you were wrong.
i was wrong.
say you shortchanged me and you shortchanged yourself.
i did.  both.
say you would be the luckiest son of a bitch on earth if i did not up and quit over all this.
the luckiest son of a bitch in the universe, erin.  the luckiest son of a bitch in history.
but i know you are not going to quit on me.
how do you know that?
cause you got a little voice in your head saying, do the right thing.  give him another chance.
it is a good day.  i feel good.
well, then -- if you are feeling up to it, maybe we should talk shop.
the judge came up with a number.
a number for the whole group, or for us?
both.
oh, my god.
and he is making them give five million of it to you all.
five million dollars?
five million dollars.
i do not even know how much money that is.
it is enough -- for whatever you need, for whatever your girls need, for whatever your girls' girls need -- it will be enough.
i can put them in a good school.
any school you want.
and get someone to help around the house.
yup.
oh my god.  oh my god.
hey, ros.  nice view, huh?
yeah, I am going to start sleeping here.  masry & vititoe, can i -- damn it.  does anyone know anything about these phones?
careful you do not spit from here; you could kill someone.
you see your office?
yeah.  yours is nicer.
oh, okay.  here it comes.
here what comes?
the extortion, the threats ...
i was not going to --
"i can always find someplace else to work. someplace that will pay me a fortune and give me a view of the french riviera ..."
ed, i swear, I am not --
okay, fine.  fine  you backed me into a corner again.  you are holding me hostage ...
what is that?
take it.
two million dollars?
the firm took in sixty.  that is three percent.  seemed like a fair bonus to me.
