how is the "date night" idea going over with eve?
like gangbusters, doc.  okay, i missed the last one.
you missed the last three, including her birthday.  your wife's gripe sheet.
I have been working night and day.  i have not had time.
you are supposed to make time. when was the last time you told her you love her?  when was the last time you two had sex?
one of my informants spotted him -- right here in the city.
i just asked you about making love to your wife, and you started talking about your job.
I am not hiding in my work, if that is what you are saying.
you said it, jon, not me.
jon, I am getting a little annoyed by your obsessive need to spoil my fun.
and how much will your "fun" net you this time?
what is it to you?  i declare it.  here i am, back in the states for less than a month --
you are under arrest. incredibly, you still have the right to remain silent --
what are you going to do with me gone?  you will drive your wife and kid nuts! i bet your daughter is just about ripe by now. what is her name, janie?
mention my family once more and you are dead.
you can not kill me, jon. I have got something going this saturday night ... it is going to be worse than anything god ever dumped on the pharaohs -- and only i can stop it.
you can tell me all about it -- from your prison cell.
do not count on it.
fine work, jon.
yeah, real fine.  especially all the casualties.
I am complimenting you. can not you ever just say "thanks"?
... thanks.
try to kiss my butt just once before I am transferred.
sorry, admiral.  it was not mentioned in the job description.
well, you tried.  you failed miserably, but you tried.
everything i say is wrong. i can not talk to her anymore.
she is only 12.  some day she will understand that apathy and absence are just special ways of saying "i love you."
is that what you think?
jon ... we just remember how it used to be.  you staying for a while or is this just a piss-stop?
we need to talk.
I am late for surgery.
it is important.
so is finishing my residency and passing my boards ...
how is loomis?
apparently, fine.  he is coming into work.  that is the good news ...
go on.
castor's still alive --  technically.  he is a turnip, on total life-support ...
he is lying.
jon, he is hooked up to a full-spectrum polygraph. no one has ever beaten --
i do not care -- he is manipulating it.  that bomb has been built and it is out there, somewhere.
what do you expect us to do -- shut down the city, evacuate two million people on a hunch?
we can send in a plant -- try to get pollux to spill the location.
he would see that a mile away.  the only person he would talk to about that bomb is his brother.  unfortunately, turnips can not talk.
which ear was it?
the left, i think.  those surgeons in witness protection can fix things nobody's even broken yet.
... i was dreaming ...
something good?
we were back in high school. you wanted to join the sky diving team, but i would not let you.
must have been after we got engaged.
actually -- in this dream -- i was your mother.
so you had a nightmare.
totally -- you were being very, very bad.  you went up in the plane and jumped out.  you had a parachute, but it did not open.
were you there to catch me?
no.
how come?
i do not know ...  maybe because you have never needed my help.
five years ... i still can not get it out of my head -- an inch to the left, matty would still be alive.
and you would not be.
what are you saying?  oh, god -- you are going on assignment again ...
one last time.  it is important ...
you said you would be here! you promised me -- you promised jamie!  what could be more important than that?
i can not tell you ... except only i can do it.
you want me to tell you it is okay to leave?  okay, go on!  go!
jon, this is goddam insane. you can not go through with it.  what about eve?
she does not know -- and she never will.
you have not got a chance in hell of fooling pollux. castor drinks, smokes and walks around with a 24-hour hard-on.  he is nothing like you.
do not worry.  I have done my homework.  I will get pollux to talk.
either way, come saturday morning -- I am pulling you the hell out of there.
now what?
call lazarro.  castor just came out of his coma.
this is it, jon.  for the next 72 hours -- you are on your own.
just make sure you are there.  on time.
they are too tight.
so's a noose.  now keep your mouth shut.
waxy wright.  did not jon archer bust you for poisoning five members of the canadian parliament?
they never should have voted against u.s. statehood -- the scumbags.  we heard you got wasted.
do i look wasted -- asshole?
you look great, castor. really.  here -- i got a shot of your favorite -- mescal.  even has the worm.
you will what?
I am going to have you fired.
hey, bro ...
you are not my brother.  the brother i knew would never have been caught by that dumb fuck archer.  at least tell me the bomb is still going off.
they have not found it yet -- listen, pollux ...
pollux ...
shut up.
so?
so?  the procnias averano is a south american bird.  the flight here was only three hours!  and yesterday a european swallow flew by! where the fuck are we?
what do you mean?
you shoot hoops like a chick, you smoke like a wuss, and -- i do not know -- you are different.
i was in a coma, pollux. i still feel like shit.
let me have a look.
do you know what it is to be in a coma?  it fucks up everything -- including your memory! i can not even tell you why dobbs jumped me yesterday!
you porked his wife the day he was arrested.  how could you forget that?
i do not know.  everything's jumbled -- so you are going to have to help me fill in a few blanks.
a few blanks?  like what?
like ...
oh, god -- mom od'd at county general.
retching and convulsing while those bastards did not even try to save her sorry ass.  you gave her mouth to mouth -- man -- even then you had some constitution.
uh -- to kill the doctors?
after that.  you promised you would always take care of me.
and i bet I have kept that promise ...
only one you have never broken.
that is not the worst part.
what is worse than losing five million bucks?
being stuck in this rat-hole when it blows.  bro, what you built was a work of art. that little fucker belongs in the smithsonian.
thanks, pollux.
for what?
for being one helluva guy.
"thanks?"  i guess they really did fuck you up.
-- castor?
not anymore.
it can not be.  it is impossible.
i believe the phrase dr. hoag used was "titanically remote."  who knows?  maybe the trauma of having my face cut off pulled me out.  or maybe god really is on my side after all.  by the way, i know you do not get the papers in here.
you killed them?
of course i killed them, you dumb fuck.  and torched every shred of evidence that proves who you really are.  swallow this one, commander. you are going to be in here for the rest of your life.
what are you going to do, castor?
let's not confuse things anymore.  I am archer. you are castor.  but if you need proof --
what are you going to do!
you have given me the freedom i have not had in years, and the power to make it pay off in ways i never thought possible.  but hell -- this is america.  one day a pauper, the next day, a prince. and i owe it all to you. now if you will excuse me, I have got an important government job to abuse, -- and a beautiful wife to fuck.  excuse me -- i mean "make love to."
you better be nice, castor. you could get mighty lonely now that pollux is gone.
pollux is -- what?
archer cut him a deal for turning state's evidence. he is free.
walton, you have to let me see the warden --
or what?  you will have me fired?
what happened to your big "assignment"?
what do you know about it?
as much as ever.  nothing.
it did not work out as planned. where are you off to?
the hospital.
the hospital?  oh, that is right -- you are a doctor.  ha-ha.
jon -- i do not have time to play games.  there are leftovers in the fridge.
have fun at work.
what is with you tonight?
do not i usually kiss my wife?
no.
screw your boundaries, janie.  you have something i want.
janie?
clarissa left those here.
i will not tell mom if you don't.
when did you start smoking?
you will be seeing a lot of changes around here. daddy's a new man.
you merciless bastard!
business first.  i went into the "warrants" system and erased your records.  you are clean.  in fact, you are now on the informant payroll.
i can not even look at you without wanting to vomit.
you better get used to it. that bitch lazarro is getting kicked upstairs. guess what white-bread family man is going to replace her?
-- I will be one of the most powerful men in the country. did not matter how much cash i made pulling wet jobs -- i was still too low on the food chain -- always with somebody like jon archer after me.  the best part is -- I am the good guy.
no -- the best part is, since it is a government job -- they can not fire you!  but how can you be sure you will get the appointment?
trust me.  you are going to love it ...
oh -- commander.  i did not see you ...
well, i saw you -- kim.
kim?
that is your name, is not it?
you always call me miss brewster.
let's try to be a little less formal from now on, shall we?
you have got someone in your office.
get rid of them.
the admiral?
look at you, jon -- at your age -- an american hero!  I would buy you a drink but i know you would just turn me down.
normally, i would.  but today ...
you are the only person in this place who can see right through me.
you have made us look pretty good in the past week.  and the way you handled the press --
just following your example.
d.c.'s very high on giving you the promotion.  there is just one problem.
what is that?
me.  i have doubts about your ability to stick with what is essentially a desk job.
i had doubts too.  i always looked at a desk as though it were a ball-and-chain. but something happened ...
you would have to start immediately.
done.  in fact, i was already plotting about the best way to meet the foreign bureau chiefs.
jon, you are starting to remind me -- of me.  congratulations.
get a higher arc on the ball, jamie.  and for chrissake, square your shoulders to the basket.
like you know anything about it.
hurry up -- the salad's getting warm and the pasta's getting cold.
-- I have got to study.
why do i feel like I am on a blind date?
they say love is blind. do you think that is true?
i think -- you are trying to get me drunk.
would not be the first time -- or would it?
you would not even sip champagne at our wedding. we were underage -- you would not break the law.  remember what my brother called you?
so -- how long will you be gone this time?
gone?
is not that what all this is about?  letting jamie go out, cooking me dinner, -- your next assignment?
I am not going anywhere.
you always say that -- then you leave.
can not you see I am trying to change?  i sent jamie off because i wanted to be alone with you.  i wanted to see the candle-light dance in your beautiful --
-- what?
I am replacing lazarro. nice, safe desk job -- just like you wanted.
... that is great.
so you see, I am not going anywhere.  unless it is upstairs with you ...
you are wearing your suit --
call me spontaneous.
do not they ever let us take these boots off?
not unless you are sent to the "clinic."
you mean if i get sick?
they do not give two fucks about your health.  the clinic's where they send the real hard-cases for attitude adjustment.  look at o'neill --
what did he do?
he hit a guard.
what is on your mind?
jon, it is the tenth.  i know how difficult it is for you, but we still have to go.
I am late.  got to protect and serve the world, y'know.
the world can wait, jon. you are going.
okay, if you insist. but -- you drive.
i think jamie's been seeing karl again.
great.
great?  he is 17 -- you told her to stay away from him.
oh, that karl.
yes, jon.  that karl.
I will have a talk with her. by the way, you never said anything about last night ...
do not get mad, but i just went for a little stroll through the company switches.
you are supposed to be snitching, making me look legit.
do not worry, nobody knows I am inside.  check it out.  remember that fat fuck agent who roughed us up in thailand?  he is being treated for bone cancer at the v.a.  thanks to the miracle of nsa grid-technology ...  -- ooops!  his radiation does just quadrupled.
are you trying to give us away? for somebody with such a big brain, you think awfully small.
I am just having some fun.
there is fun, bro.  then there is fun.
eight pocket stingers ... seven piper uzis ... six cobra carbines ...  five - net - launch-ers ...
yeah -- it is santa's magic fucking village.  your present's in here.
we gut the organization -- and rebuild it with more reliable friends.
most of the current chiefs -- they must have pretty hefty prices on their heads.
all of them do.  we will kill twelve birds with one bomb.  and we will be rich.
good, because i checked your salary -- and it bites.  how the everyday working-class stiff survives in today's economy is something I will never ...
you will need to recultivate that virus.
no problem.
you picked a helluva day to leave your beeper off!
what happened?
castor's escaped!
escaped?  from erewhon?  i want everyone on this -- our entire force and the sfpd.
sfpd?  castor is not stupid enough to come back to the city.
trust me, he is already here. get going!
what about me?
a lot of people think you are a snitch.  it is dangerous ...
like i fucking care?  I am not just sitting here!
is someone there?
eve, listen carefully.  the man you think is your husband -- isn't.
who is this?
never mind that!  just take jamie and get out of that house.  do not tell anyone where you are going -- especially not him -- just go.
okay, you are having an emotional crisis.  you need to seek the help of a trained --
think about it, eve! everything he is done recently has been peculiar, right?  he is said and done things your husband would never do ...
whoever you are, do not call again.
do not hang up ...
uh-oh, somebody is in trouble.
yeah -- me.
jesus christ, castor.
drive.
the last time i took orders from you i ended up with five years probation.
what are you -- stupid?
you have not changed at all! some guy tries to rape me -- and you side with him!
did it look like i was siding with him?  did it?  you want to play with the bad boys, you better be prepared.  do you have protection?
you mean like ... condoms?
i mean like protection.
where am i?
my place.
you should not have brought me here ... it is dangerous.
better than you bleeding all over my car upholstery. trust me, caz, you will not be here long.
i hear you are a manicurist now -- got your own business and everything.  I am glad you have stayed clean.
like i had a choice with that anal-retentive jon archer rising my ass at the probation hearing.  at least he took an interest. you took off without leaving so much as a post-it.
I am not the same person you remember.
perfect fit.
should be.  it is yours.
nice-looking kid.
of course he is ...  -- he is yours too.
we have got him sighted. okay, pollux, pull out.
what makes you so sure this guy's going to set up his own brother?
I have never been more certain of anything. get everyone in position. -- and get the word out -- shoot to kill.
go on, adam ...  I am not asking you for anything -- i was never even going to tell you. but hell, i never thought I would see you again, either.
how old is he?
five.  no one knows you are his father.  i thought someone might want to hurt him -- just to hurt you.
yes ... someone might want to tear him apart -- snuff him out -- for revenge.
you are not holding him right ... caz ...
stay away from my family!
too late, your kid worships me.  and your wife -- she is an animal.  even i can not keep up with her.
what happened?
what the fuck do you think happened?  castor troy just shot him!  what are you waiting for?  go!
and this thing can grow it?
yes.  pollux bought one along with the original batch.  obviously, he found a way to make more.
why would he need more?
he is your brother, you figure it out.  maybe he made another bomb.
or reactivated the first one.
right ... like jon archer would ever let that happen.
i just heard about castor's fratricide -- rather poetic, do not you think?
what is it, admiral? I am under the gun here.
i just thought that -- under the circumstances -- you might want to postpone the meeting with the station chiefs.
no.  most of them are in transit by now.  I am heading over to the hotel to personally oversee security.
okay, then.  i leave it in your able hands.
commander, what are you doing here?
where should i be?  where is everyone else?
backing you up!  did not you track castor to the army street terminal?
what?
it was confirmed by your personal security code. nobody knows that code but you!
obviously someone else knows it!  get everybody back to their posts -- now!
i know you -- you are the one who called.  you are castor troy.  you killed my son --
-- i called, but I am not castor.  I am your husband.
how did he expect to do that?
an nsa surgeon gave me castor's face.  he handled the transplant, the vocal implant, everything.  but somehow castor came out of his coma -- and killed everyone who knew about the mission. but not before he was transformed into me.
what are you doing?
-- studying.
nothing.
i disagree.  you think I have been acting strange.  like a completely different person.
-- yes.
okay, i have a confession to make.  but you are not going to like it.
i took it from my fake husband.
why point it at me?  I am the real thing.
i do not know that.  maybe jon's already dead.
what more proof do you need?
tell me what happened on april 9th -- 13 years ago.
christ, jon!  how could you do this to yourself? how could you do this to us?  do you know -- do you know what he did to me ...?
whatever happened, whatever he did -- i know it is my fault and i know i can never make it up to you --
he freaked out when he thought i had seen this stuff.  i think it is a list of cities -- santiago, ho chi minh city, nandi ...
our pacific rim stations. these numbers must be bounties. castor's not wasting any time.
what do you mean?
he is going to kill off our bureau chiefs -- one-by-one.
-- or maybe all at once.  there is a get-together tonight at new st. marks. for all the bureau chiefs and their families.  he is insisted jamie and i be there too.
you can not go.  you can not be anywhere near that place.
jon, what is it?
the bomb.  he is reactivated it.  and everyone there is going to die.
can not we call someone? admiral lazarro?
i know lazarro -- the first person she would call is "me." we can not take the chance of tipping castor off.
jon, if I am not there, he will be tipped off.  I will get rid of jamie -- but you and i are in this together.
eve ...
where is jamie?
that is what I would like to know.  she stole fifty dollars from my purse and took off.
I will deal with her later.
good.  because I am fed up.
I am going to the powder room.
sure, baby -- go anywhere you want.  but i have to give you an escort.  security reasons.
remember this from our junior prom?  boy, were you ever mad for madonna.
back then -- who wasn't?
wait a second -- you hated madonna.  did not you?
there is my little darling.  the night would not be complete without you.
yeah, mom cut me some slack -- but i decided ... I would like to be here for you.  here, mom.  you can have it back.  thanks, though.
what -- what are you doing?
vacuum-sealed globe ... should not take long.
i do not know.  how long before it kills us?
five seconds.
give up, castor.  people are going to find out.
not if i kill you first ...
jamie ...
shoot him!
just saving the tax-payers the cost of a trial.  so take a hike.
what is the matter with your voice, commander?
castor troy almost strangled me to death.  where the hell were you?
you are both in custody until there is a dna fingerprinting and we can prove who is who. now put the gun down.
you can not blame me for trying.
how is he?
no life signs at all. he is a turnip.
that is what they always say.
i started wondering -- if you could not switch back -- would it make a difference?
would it?
damn right.
