sorry we had to get you up at this hour, mr. grant.
i thought i was on my vacation... what is it all about?
i can not tell you.
where we going?
i can not tell you that either... excuse me, mr. grant, but you have got a smudge on your cheek.
may i?
go ahead.
what did you do that for?
I am married.
and she said it was indelible...
hello, grant. good to see you again.
the pentagon, was not it, general? only you were not in that uniform...
benes... what the devil happened?
the other side got to him.
how bad off is he?
brain injury.
before or after what he wanted to tell you?
before he could breathe a word. he is the only scientist who knows the answer to what we are after. that is why we have to operate --
-- and why we need you.
<me>?
i can not even put a band-aid on my finger.
here's the surgeon.
duval. dr. peter duval. top brain man in the country. ever hear of him?
sorry, but I am rusty on surgeons. who is the girl?
cora peterson, his technical assistant. you will join duval and the others --
what can i do? except maybe pass out?
yes, alan.
meet grant. this is dr. michaels, chief of the medical section.
glad to have you with us, mr. grant.
wish i knew why.
tell him where he fits in, will you? I have got a few things to check out.
we need you for security purposes, mr. grant.
at an operation?
they know they failed to kill benes. security thinks they will try again, first chance they get. we are afraid of medical sabotage -- or surgical assassination.
surgical assassination?! but that means you suspect --
[line of dialogue cut off]
i do not agree. just because he is often difficult --
difficult? he is impossible!
that is no reason to suspect him of disloyalty.
but why take the chance, when there must be other doctors?
we have no choice. duval's the most skillful brain surgeon in the country, and he is right here, at hand.
i would not know if he is trying to save him or kill him.
I will be standing by. <i'll> know.
and no matter what happens, you are to take orders <only> from dr. michaels, understand?
right, sir.
come along, they will be operating shortly.  see you later, mike.
his technician okay? in addition to the looks department?
no question of her loyalty.
i do not mean to be inquisitive. but this <cmdf> -- for all i know it could stand for <consolidated mobilization of female delinquents>?
<combined miniature deterrent forces>.
say that again?
general, I have heard some wild ones. but this takes it.
we can shrink an army -- with all its equipment -- and put it in a bottle cap. that is why we call it <combined miniature deterrent forces>.
if the other side ever gets hold of a thing like that...
they have...  but we have both got the same problem -- lack or control. we can only keep things miniaturized for exactly sixty minutes. arter that, everything starts growing back to its original size.
i assume benes knows how to control it.
that is right. he wanted us to have the secret, and not them. which is why they tried to kill him.
they are bound to try again. no wonder they want me to stand by during the operation.
and take a little trip with them...
trip? where to?
well, the only way to reach that clot is from inside the brain. so we have decided to put a surgical team and a crew into a submarine -- reduce it way down in size, and inject it into an artery --
you mean <i'm> going along?
as part of the crew.
wait a minute! they can not shrink <me>!
grant, our miniaturizer can shrink anything.
but i do not want to be miniaturized -- !
it is only for an hour --
not even for a minute! general carter, sir, I would like you to reconsider your choice. I am just not the right man for a mission of this kind.
this is dr. duval, our head surgeon.
oh yes, I have heard of you, doctor.
miss peterson, his technical assistant.
how are you, miss peterson?
out of your element, are not you, captain?
sort of.
that makes two of us.
grant's uniquely qualified for this mission. he is a communications expert and was a frogman during the war. besides, he brought benes into this country, and the fewer people who know about him, the better. at any rate, you will find grant invaluable, should anything go wrong once you are under way.  okay, don.
here's the overall target area...
about forty miles an hour.
well, it seems to me if you reduce a ship to microscopic size -- and the stream remains constant -- we would take quite a beating.
even so, because of our size -- i mean lack of it -- we will still be cruising mighty fast. we will be smashed to bits if there is any turbulence --
the only danger of turbulence is in the heart -- and we are not going through it.  once in the carotid artery, we will remain in the arterial system... until we reach the point of damage --  -- where dr. duval will attempt to dissolve the clot with a laser beam. after the operation, we will return by way of the venous system --  -- until we reach the base of the neck --  -- where we will be removed right here -- with a hypodermic.
there'll be a team of surgeons standing by. we are prepared to remove you immediately, should anything go wrong. in any event, you must be out within sixty minutes. after that, you will be in danger of attack.
attack? who -- or should i say what from?
benes' natural defenses. white corpuscles -- antibodies. once you begin to grow -- and become a menace to the body -- you will trigger them off... michaels with all the unknown factors in the body, i still say risking five lives for one is something we should reconsider --
we understand your concern, but we have made our decision, doctor. any questions? anybody?
just one, general...
yes?
where can i get a cab back to town?
where do we stand?
medical's ready.
atomic fuel?
nothing you could see with the naked eye. but there is a microscopic radio-active particle inside.
if it is no military secret, how can a sub run on a microscopic particle?
they can not reduce nuclear fuel. but once the reactor's miniaturized -- along with the submarine -- a microscopic particle should emit enough energy to activate it.
that is cutting it mighty close -- for a perfect fit.
it should work -- theoretically. if it doesn't, the mission's off. the craft's nuclear-powered. except for your wireless.
all in all, quite a canoe...
designed for piscatorial research -- the spawning habits of deep sea fish.
remind me to ask you about the love life of an octupus.
captain, how will you be able to follow my charts --  --from up there?
on the repeater.
that is it...
looks simple to operate.
bet you are pretty handy around the house... can you cook?
we are pushing oxygen today.
I will take some laughing gas, ma'am.
you sound as if you are not looking forward to it.
well, it is not exactly a pleasure cruise.
i think it is the most exciting --  we are going to see things no one ever saw before. the actual physical process of life itself -- not something under a microscope... just think of it --
that is the trouble. i am. being shrunk...
you may learn to like it.
that will teach you where to keep your hand.
now i know...
that could be quite a lethal weapon... it could kill, not cure.
not in the hands of a great surgeon like dr. duval. the beam of this laser can be regulated to one millionth of a millimeter.
i understand you have been dr. duval's assistant for quite some time... he must have snatched you out of the cradle.
I have been with him since i got out of school. he brought me into the cmdf, over five years ago.
a long time, with one man.
not working for someone like dr. duval --
'prepare for miniaturization'...
positions, please. and strap yourselves in.
doctor...
yes, cora.
i -- i want to say...
what is it?  anything wrong?
i just wanted to thank you for taking me along.
thank you for volunteering.
okay to proceed.
phase two.
doctor, what is wrong?
i can not breathe!... I have got to get out!
it is too late now. we must go on.
the medieval philosophers were right... <man> is the center of the universe... we stand in the middle of infinity, between outer and inner space. and there is no limit to either.
you mean inner space is endless?
everything can be divided in half, no matter how minute.
i never...never imagined it could be anything...like this.
i always thought it was nothing but red.
only to the naked eye.  those corpuscles -- carrying oxygen -- give the stream its color. but the rest of the plasma's very much like sea water. an ocean of life...
quite a piece of plumbing.
never saw <that>. not even under an electron-mrcroscope.
they are much smaller than bacteria...
looks like the molecular structure of proteins.
i do not agree. i think we ought to stop and take a sample.
that is not the purpose of this mission.  captain -- keep a straight course -- until you are in the clear.
but that is not possible.
not in a sealed vessel like an artery.  captain -- something must be wrong with your controls!
they have crossed over into the jugular vein!
that can not be -- there is no direct connection between the two --
normally not. unless it is an arterio-venous fistula --
a what?
a forced joining of an artery and vein. must have happened when benes was hurt.
yes, a fistula too small to show up on the x-rays.
but big enough for us...
we could never fight that current it is physically impossible.
then do not drift down further.
I will do what i can.
if we can not go back, is there an alternate route?
yes... we can go forward on this course, but it means going directly through the heart.
that is just dandy. we can not go forward -- and we can not go back.
I am afraid there is only one thing we can do. call off the mission.
doctor...you can not mean that! not when we have come this far. and if we give up, there'll be no way of saving mr. benes --
dr. michaels is right. we have no choice.
tell them to take us out.
if there is any chance --
request removal, mr. grant.
but we have no choice! we have got, to take them out!
no...
we still have fifty-one minutes. leave them in.
but it is hopeless! they can not go back and they can not go on. i tell you there is nothing else we can do but remove them!
not until the very last second. we must think of something... something to save the situation.
doctor...without killing him -- how long could we stop his heart?
the less time, the better.
i know that. but what is the maximum?
in his comatose state...and everything slowed down...no more than sixty seconds.
at topspeed...and adjusting distance for degree of miniaturization --  the sub should get through the heart in fifty-seven seconds.
that would give us only three seconds to revive him...
what are the problems in stopping the heart?
nothing -- compared to starting it up again.
<cardiac red alert> we are stopping the heart.
message to proteus.
-- at which point the heart will be stopped by electric shock.
and if it should take more time to get through --
we can not take a second more.
captain -- head in the d1rection of the flow and drift with it.
I will never find my way through that.
I will guide you, once we are in the heart.
listen...the heart.
yes...slowed down agreat deal.
sounds like heavy artillery...
it lays down quite a barrage in a lifetime. forty million beats.
there it is!
fasten yourselves in. there should be a tremendous surge when the heart starts up again.
they are in the pulmonary artery.
they will make up some time, once they get through that and reach the pleural cavity.  respiration post...
I would hate to get lost on that freeway...
they all lead to the same place -- the lungs.
doctor -- the channel's getting awful narrow.
we are entering a capillary. remain in the middle.
the wall's transparent...
it is less than one ten-thousandth of an inch thick. and porous.
look at that...they're changing color...
doctor -- is it possible? that we are seeing it happen before our eyes?
mind letting me in on what is going on out there?
a simple exchange, mr. grant. corpuscles releasing carbon dioxide -- the moment they touch the wall of the lung -- in return for oxygen coming through from the other side.
do not tell me they are refueling...
oxygenation...
nothing miraculous about it. just an interchange of gases. the end product of five hundred million years of evolution.
you can not believe all that is accidental? that there is not a creative intelligence at work --
what is it, skipper?
we are losing pressure in the flotation tanks. check the manual, right over there.
air bubbles!... doctor --
no danger of an embolism. at our reduced scale, they are much too minute to prove fatal to benes.
well, that takes care of the valve. it was probably caused by that electric shock.
was there any damage?
not to the valve. but we have lost too much air to make it the rest of the way.
any reserve air?
enough to breathe, but that is all.
just a few cells away from a vast air chamber -- one of the countless alvioli of the lung -- and we can not get enough to fill a microscopic tank.
maybe we can...  skipper, is there a snorkel on this sub?
yes, there is.
could i run a tube through that wall, without harming benes?
at this size, i would certainly think so.
if those corpuscles can take on air, no reason why we can't.  all we have to do is hook up the snorkel to that air chamber you were talk1ng about, and when benes inhales, there should be plenty of pressure to force the oxygen into the tank.  how is that sound to you, skipper?
it is a dangerous procedure. if i miss the timing, we could explode the tanks... but I am willing to try it.
yes, by all means. we must try it.
looks like you did not batten it down too well.
but i did. I am positive!
then how come it worked loose?
i have no idea.
cora, is something wrong with the laser?
i do not know yet, doctor. and i will not know until i test it.
i can not imagine how it possibly could have come loose. i distinctly recall fastening it with all four bolts --
it must have been jarred loose during the whirlpool.
another delay... with only forty-two minutes left.
it will be close -- but there is still a margin of safety.
let's find what the devil's holding them up!  contact the proteus!
i told you to cut down on the sugar.
i can not help it. I am just weak, i guess.
should not you answer that?
not now. we need air, not greetings!
in a way -- yes. those are impurities imbedded in the lung after a lifetime of 'civilization.' carbon from smoke and smog -- specks of dust --
well, we better get on with it.
I will try to hold it from the other side of the wall, while you push from out here. maybe that will do it.
you can not --it's too dangerous --
yes -- with all that pressure, and suction within --
there is no other way. tie my safety line to the sub.
all right now -- push the snorkel through as soon as i get inside.
walt for the lull -- between the time he inhales and exhales.
what can we do?
nothing -- against all that force.
but we just can not leave him in there! what will happen to him?
we will know -- in the next breath...
you must carry spare parts --
not anything built into the chassis.  if it had not come loose --
that is beside the point now.  i do not see the sense of going on.
we must!
with no laser --
is not there another surgical procedure you can try?
no, there is no other way.
if you had a transistor about this size and power output, and a thin enough wire --  -- could you piece it together?
no, it requires such absolute precision --
a surgeon might...
oh yes, I am sure dr. duval could. if we had the parts.
I have got a source. all i have to do is tap it.
grant -- wait a minute -- you are not going to dismantle the wireless?
just one little transistor and a circuit wire is all it takes.
but that will knock out our communications! we will be cutting ourselves off from the outside.
they will still be able to track us by radar, because of the radioactive fuel.
well, sir? which is it? the wireless, or benes' life?
send the following message...
looks like the sea, at dawn.
we are safe -- long as it remains that color...  we are in the pleural sac.  it keeps the lungs from rubbing against the wall of the chest up there. when those membranes become inflamed, we wind up with pleurisy -- and a wracking cough.
cough? if he can kick up a storm by just <breathing> --
his pleura's in fine condition. it should be clear sailing through this area.
let's hope... so far, somebody is tried to sabotage this mission twice.
sabotage? i do not understand...
i saw the laser just before we started. it was fastened down securely. you do not suppose what happened was an 'accident?' any more than my safety line snapping after it was tied off to the sub?
you have no right to blame duval --
that line was tampered with...
i -- i do not know what to say. i know he is under a cloud, but there is not a more dedicated man in the entire medical profession.
you still never know what is going on in anyone's mind...
i can not believe it. whatever happened was an accident.
two in a row?
it is possible --
thirty-two minutes left...  but chances are we will not have to wait that long for try-number three.
look at those walls up ahead!
we are entering the lymphatic system. those are nuclei of cells, lining a duct.
i always had an idea there was only one system. the circulatory.
the lymphatic system drains off excess fluid from the tissues. without it, we would all swell up like balloons. he reaches the console, begins to take out a new chart.
skipper, you are picking up seaweed -- or whatever it is.
reticular fibers. we ought to be clear of them soon.
looks like somebody declared war.
just what it is. antibodies, destroying bacteria -- or any other foreign invader that threatens the system.
we will never get there in time, at this rate.
is not there another route? so we can by-pass all this?
yes...  we can transfer over to the inner ear, and go by way of the endolymphatic duct.
then why not take it?
they are tracking us topside. once they see where we are going, I am sure they will take every precaution.
let's hope they realize the danger.  captain, I will give you a new compass heading.
what is wrong, skipper?
what i was afraid would happen. the stuff we passed through -- that looked like seaweed --
you are going out there? with those antibodies --
no danger of attack, as long as you do not trigger them off by any injury to the system.
how is it look?
i could use a lawnmower...
would not it be quicker if we all helped?
yes, there is no time to spare. and those fibers can be quite tenacious.
open it! open it before they get here!
i can not till the hatch is flooded!
looks like quite a way to go...
no, we should reach the base of the brain shortly. and from there, it is not far to the site of the injury.
that puts us right here... which means we can head straight for the sub arachnoid cavity.
yes...
if we can go in past the oculomotor nerve...
no need to get up --
i feel much better now...
thank you for saving my life.
that is what they pay me for.
a great deal more than that, i believe...
such as?
keeping an eye on dr. duval...
what gives you that idea?
that is why you are really here. i knew it from the start.
as obvious as that? our security people will jump for joy.  i suppose duval's onto me, too?
you are not the first, but he is much too innocent, much too involved with his work, to realize what is going on around him.
under a cloud without cause, i take it.
oh, no. plenty of cause. he will not follow the herd, or change his convictions -- even when they are not popular. and he believes in an absolutely free interchange of information between scientists of different countries -- and these days, there is nothing more suspicious than that.
depends on which end of the telescope you look through.
what do you mean?
well, if you happen to be very fond of him -- even in love with him -- it would certainly affect your point of view.
it is against my better judgment...
better judgment?! to wait until the actual operation -- when it may be too late?
I have done all i could with the laser.
all I am asking is you test it beforehand!
if it will not work, it is beyond my power to fix it. but if it does, there is no telling how long it will hold up. it is a jury rig, at best, and we will need every second of use we can get out of it. that is why i do not want to put any extra strain on the connections by running unnecessary tests.
dr. duvall i insist you test the laser.
I will do nothing of the sort! the operation is <my> responsibility! i will not do it, and that is final!
as usual, you want everything your way. except this time there is more than your damned ego at stake.
i know only too well what is in the balance, doctor. and it is not my ego, damned or otherwise.
"yet all the suns that light the corridors of the universe shine dim, before the blazing of a single thought -- "
"proclaiming in incandescent glory the myriad mind of man..."
the soul? the finite mind cannot comprehend infinity. and the soul which comes from god is infinite.
take a close look at your soul, and your infinity, and your god out there --
--and certain chemicals involving proteins --
you left something out.
what is that?
the breath of god...
removal point? what are you talking about!
we have no alternative. with only six minutes left, we will just barely make it.
hold it, skipper.  what happens if we overstay?
once time's up, de-miniaturization begins. in a matter of seconds the ship will grow big enough to become a danger to the system. then white corpuscles will swarm to destroy it, as they would any invader.
how long will it take to get from here to the removal point?
I am in charge of this mission! you were instructed to take orders from me, not give them!
sorry, but the situation has changed.
nothing has changed as far as <my> authority goes! he is <not> going to operate! not in the little time we have left! there is no chance of success! it is sheer suicide for all of us!
dr. duval, you are not going through with this! i absolutely forbid it! I am responsible for the lives of everyone here! i will not allow you or anyone else to leave this ship!
I am going to do what i can to save benes.
i do not believe that.
why not? because of his gibberish about god and the soul? camouflage -- that is all it is -- to blind the gullible like you! and to hide his real identity -- a fanatic whose only purpose is to kill benes! and you made it possible!
I have come up against fanatics before, and duval just does not fit the pattern.  I am going out there, skipper. maybe i can be of some help...
remember -- we can not take more than five minutes to get out.
how does it look, doctor?
if i can relieve the pressure on a few key vessels...
there seems to be something wrong with the escape hatch...
what do you mean?
fluid is seeping through. better come down and have a look!
doctor, we have just about had it.
it i can clear this central nerve, that <may> be enough...
we better get back to the sub. every second counts now.
look! they follow the direction of her glance, are startled to see:
time's up... we will have to take them out immediately.
it means killing benes...  and for all we know, they may have completed the operation!  damn it to hell!
the ship's good as finished. we will have to get out on our own! is there a quick way out?
we could follow the optic nerve to the corner of the eye.
what happened?
dr. michaels... he went berserk...
berserk nothing. he is the one who is been sabotaging the mission...  get this on. hurry!
come on -- it is no use!
we can get out through the lab section.
you said there was a quick way out!
what about dr. michaels?
it is too late!
what is it?
that blip we are picking up might only be the radio-active particle. the proteus may already be destroyed...
what are you getting at?
if i were in their place and I would run out of time, I would abandon the ship before i grew to dangerous size... and use the few extra minutes to get out the quickest way possible, on my own...
along the optic nerve to the eye.
he is making a fine recovery.
he certainly is. he should be up and about in no time.
oh yes, great. the only problem is, he can not remember what he came to tell us.
can not remember?... what do you mean?
he is blanked out on that one particular point.
yes, we would like to get moving.
why do not you go on. we will meet you at the clearance desk in a few minutes.
now how soon can we try sodium pentathol?
I would hold that off awhile.
well, how about hypnosis? that can not hurt him!
who, me? oh, no! do not bother about me! we are not hurt! is not that right, skipper?
uh -- what?
we feel great, do not we? just <great>?!
oh -- sure, sure! never better!
nothing wrong with us! not a thing! we are fine -- just fine!
