"one toke over the line, sweet jesus."
one toke. you poor fool. wait till you see those goddamn bats.
we are your friends. we are not like the others.
no more of that talk or I will put the leeches on you.
if so -- well, we will just have to cut his head off and bury him somewhere. because it goes without saying that we can not turn him loose. he would report us at once to some kind of outback nazi law enforcement agency, and they will run us down like dogs...
jesus! did i say that?
or just think it? was i talking? did they hear me?
it is okay. he is admiring the shape of your skull.
i want you to understand that this man at the wheel is my attorney! he is not just some dingbat i found on the strip. he is a foreigner. i think he is probably samoan. but it does not matter, does it? are you prejudiced?
hell, no!
i did not think so. because in spite of his race, this man is extremely valuable to me. hell, i forgot all about this beer. you want one?  how about some ether?
what?
never mind. let's get right to the heart of this thing. twenty-four hours ago we were sitting in the pogo lounge of the beverly wills hotel...
god hell! i think i see the pattern! this one sounds like real trouble! you are going to need plenty of legal advice before this thing is over. as your attorney i must advise you that you will need a very fast car with no top and after that, the cocaine. and then the tape recorder, for special music, and some acapulco shirts...  this blows my weekend, because naturally I will have to go with you -- and we will have to arm ourselves.
why not? if a thing's worth doing, it is worth doing right.
i tell you, my man. this is the american dream in action! we would be fools not to ride this strange torpedo all the way to the end.
indeed. we must do it. what kind of story is this?
o.k., o.k., yes. hang onto it. we will be there in thirty minutes.  i finally located a car with adequate horsepower and the proper coloring.  what?! of course the gentleman has a major credit card! do you realize who the fuck you are talking to?
do not take any guff from these swine.  now we need a sound store with the finest equipment. nothing dinky. one of those new belgian heliowatts with a voice-activated shotgun mike, for picking up conversations in oncoming cars.
we will not make the nut unless we have unlimited credit.
we will. you samoans are all the same. you have no faith in the essential decency of the white man's culture.
...and we are chock full of that!
damn right!
my attorney understands this concept, despite his racial handicap. but do you?!
he said he understood, but i could see in his eyes that he didn't. he was lying to me.
my heart!
where is the medicine?
the medicine? yes, it is right here.
turn up the fucking music! my heart feels like an alligator! volume! clarity! bass! we must have bass! what is wrong with us? are you goddamn old ladies?
you scurvy shyster bastard! watch your language! you are talking to a doctor of journalism!
what the fuck are we doing out here? somebody call the police! we need help!
pay no attention to this swine. he can not handle the medicine.
the truth is we are going to vegas to croak a scag baron named savage henry. I have known him for years but he ripped us off -- and you know what that means, right?
savage henry has cashed his check! we are going to rip his lungs out!
and eat them! that bastard will not get away with this! what is going on in this country when a scum sucker like that can get away with sandbagging a doctor of journalism?
thanks for the ride. thanks a lot. i like you guys. do not worry about me.
wait a minute! come back and have a beer!
oh, jesus! did you see what god just did to us?
god did not do that! you did it! you are a fucking narcotics agent, that was our cocaine, you pig!
you better be careful. plenty of vultures out here. they will pick your bones clean before morning.
you whore!
how long do i have?
maybe thirty more minutes. as your attorney, i advise you to drive at top speed. it will be a goddamn miracle if we can get there before you turn into a wild animal. are you ready for that? checking into a vegas hotel under a phony name with intent to commit capital fraud and a head full of acid.
thirty minutes. it was going to be very close.
two cuba libres with beer and mescal on the side.  who is lacerda, he is waiting for us in a room on the twelfth floor?
lacerda?
i was right in the middle of a fucking reptile zoo. and somebody was giving booze to these goddamn things! it will not be long before they tear us to shreds!
if you think we are in trouble now wait until you see what is happening in the elevators.
i just went upstairs to see this man lacerda. i told him i knew what he was up to...  he says he is a photographer! but when i mentioned savage henry he freaked! he knows we are onto him!
but what about our room? and the golf shoes?
that is the press table. where you have to sign in for our credentials. shit, let's get it over with. you handle that, and I will check on the room.
no, no. do not leave me!
shoot it.
not yet. i want to study its habits.
what are you talking about?
you bastard! they will never let us back in that place. i leave you alone for three minutes and you start waving that goddamn marlin spike around -- yelling about reptiles! you scared the shit out of those people! they were ready to call the cops. hell, the only reason they gave us press passes was to get you out of there...
that is good...
i think he is lying to us. i could see it in his eyes.
they will probably have a big net for us when we show up.
total control now. tooling along the main drag on a saturday night in vegas, two good old boys in a fire apple red convertible... stoned, ripped, twisted... good people!
how about "nickel nick's slot arcade?" "hot slots," that sounds heavy. twenty- nine cent hotdogs...
look, what are we doing here? are we here to entertain ourselves, or to do the job?
to do the job, of course. here we go... a crab louie and quart of muscatel for twenty dollars!
why?
why what?
holy shit! they almost had us there! that was quick thinking.
what do you expect? I am your attorney. you owe me five bucks. i want it now.
jesus creeping shit!
did the mescaline just kick in? or was that debbie reynolds in a silver afro wig?!
we wandered into a fucking time capsule!
this is the place. they will never fuck with us here.
where is the ether? this mescaline is not working.
some angry rotarian shoves you and you think: what is happening here? what is going on? then you hear yourself mumbling.
dogs fucked the pope, no fault of mine. watch out!... why money? my name is brinks; i was born... born?
get sheep over side... women and children to armored car... orders from captain zeep.
i hate to say this, but this place is getting to me. i think I am getting the fear.
nonsense. we came here to find the american dream, and now we are right in the vortex you want to quit. you must realize that we have found the main nerve.
that is what gives me the fear.
look over there. two women fucking a polar bear.
please, do not tell me those things... not now.  this is my last drink. how much money can you lend me?
not much. why?
i have to go.
go?
yes. leave the country. tonight.
calm down. you will be straight in a few hours.
no. this is serious. one more hour in this town and I will kill somebody!
ok. I will lend you some money. let's go outside and see how much we have left.
can we make it?
that depends on how many people we fuck with between here and the door.
i want to leave fast.
ok. lets pay this bill and get up very slowly. it is going to be a long walk.
do they pay you to screw that bear?
when does this thing stop?
it will not stop. it is not ever going to stop.
did you see that? some sonofabitch kicked me in the back.
probably the bartender. he wanted to stomp you for what you said to the waitress.
good god! let's get out of here! where is the elevator?
do not go near that elevator. that is just what they want us to do... trap us in a steel box and take us down to the basement.
do not run. they would like any excuse to shoot us.
you drive! i think there is something wrong with me.
yeah... i thought we might need it...
what for?
let's go up there and blast him out of bed with the fire hose.
no, we should leave the poor bastard alone. i get the feeling that he is avoiding us for some reason.
do not kid yourself. that portuguese son of a bitch is dangerous. he is watching us like a hawk.
he told me he was turning in early...
that dirty bastard! i knew it! he is got hold of my woman!
that little blonde groupie with the film crew? you think he sodomized her?
that is right, laugh about it! you goddamn honkies are all the same!
where did you get that knife?
room service sent it up. i wanted something to cut the limes.
what limes?
they did not have any. they do not grow in the desert.
have you made a deal with him? did you put him on to her?
look you better put that blade away and get your head straight. i have to put the car in the lot.
you evil son of a bitch. you better hope there is some thorazine in that bag, because if there is not, you are in bad trouble.
music! turn it up. put that tape on.
what tape?
jefferson airplane. "white rabbit." i want a rising sound.
you are doomed. I am leaving here in two hours and then they are going to come up here and beat the mortal shit out of you with big saps. right there in that tub.
i dig my own graves. green water and the white rabbit. put it on.
ok. but do me one last favor, will you. can you give me two hours? that is all i ask -- just two hours to sleep before tomorrow. i suspect it is going to be a very difficult day.
of course, I am your attorney, I will give you all the time you need, at my normal rates: $45 an hour -- but you will be wanting a cushion, so, why do not you just lay one of those $100 bills down there beside the radio, and fuck off?
how about a check?
whatever's right.
i want that fucking radio!
do not touch it! get back in that tub!
back the tape up. i need it again! let it roll! just as high as the fucker can go! and when it comes to that fantastic note where the rabbit bites its own head off, i want you to throw that fucking radio into the tub with me!
not me. it would blast you through the wall -- stone dead in ten seconds and they would make me explain it!
bullshit! do not make me use this.
jesus.
do it! i want to get higher!
fuck yes. i was beginning to think i was going to have to go out and get one of the goddamn maids to do it.
are you ready?
you bastard! you would do that, would not you?
why worry? you will like it. nothing in the world like a mace high. forty- five minutes on your knees with the dry heaves...
you cheap honky sonofabitch...
why not? hell, just a minute ago, you were asking me to kill you! and now you want to kill me! what i should do, goddamnit, is call the police!
the cops?
there is no choice. i would not dare go to sleep with you wandering around with a head full of acid and wanting to slice me up with that goddamn knife!
who said anything about slicing you up? i just wanted to carve a little z on your forehead. nothing serious.
sir?  this telegram came for you. actually, it is not for you. it is for somebody named thompson, but it says 'care of raoul duke'. does that make sense?
yes... it makes sense.
i checked the register for this man thompson. we do not show him but i figured he might be part of your team.
he is. do not worry, I will get it to him.
what confused us was dr. gonzo's signature on the telegram from los angeles. when we knew he was right here in the hotel.
you did the right thing. never try to understand a press message. about half the time we use codes -- especially with dr. gonzo.
tell me. when will the doctor be awake?
awake? what do you mean?
well... the manager, mr. heem, would like to meet him. nothing unusual. mr. heem likes to meet all our large accounts... put them on a personal basis... just a chat and a handshake, you understand.
of course. but if i were you, I would leave the doctor alone until after he is eaten breakfast. he is a very crude man.
but he will be available? perhaps later this morning?
look. that telegram was all scrambled. it was actually from thompson, not to him. western union must have gotten the names reversed. i have to get going. i have to get out to the track.
there is no hurry! the race is over!
not for me.
let's have lunch!
righto!
may i see your license.
of course, officer.
could i have that, please?
why not? it was getting warm anyway.
you realize...
yeah. i know. I am guilty. i understand that. i knew it was a crime but i did it anyway. shit, why argue? I am a fucking criminal.
that is a strange attitude.
you know -- i get the feeling you could use a nap. there is a rest area up ahead. why do not you pull over and sleep a few hours?
a nap will not help. I have been awake for too long -- three or four nights. i can not even remember. if i go to sleep now, I am dead for twenty hours.
okay. here's how it is. what goes into my book, as of noon, is that i apprehended you... for driving too fast, and advised you to proceed no further than the next rest area... your stated destination, right? where you plan to take a long nap. do i make myself clear?
how far is baker? i was hoping to stop there for lunch.
not my jurisdiction. the city limits are two point two miles beyond the rest area. can you make it that far?
I will try. I have been wanting to go to baker for a long time. I have heard a lot about it.
you bastard! i need a lawyer immediately!
what are you doing in baker? did not you get my telegram?
what? fuck telegrams. I am in trouble. you worthless bastard. I will cripple your ass for this! all that shit in the car is yours! you understand that? when i finish testifying out here you will be disbarred!
you are supposed to be in vegas. we have a suite at the flamingo. i was just about to leave for the airport.
of course, i could hear what the clerk was really saying...
listen, you fuzzy little shithead -- I have been fucked around, in my time, by a fairly good cross-section of mean-tempered rule-crazy cops and now it is my turn. "fuck you, officer, I am in charge here, and I am telling you we do not have room for you."
certainly, mr. duke!
my bags are out there in that white cadillac convertible. can you have someone drive it around to the room?
oh, and could i get a quart of wild turkey, two fifths of baccardi, and a night's worth of ice delivered to my room, please?
do not worry about a thing, sir. just enjoy your stay.
well, thank you.
you degenerate pig!
it can not be helped. this is lucy.  you know -- like "lucy in the sky with diamonds."
well? what are your plans?
plans?
lucy.
shit. i met her on the plane and i had all that acid.  you know, those little blue barrels. i gave her a cap before i realized... she is a religious freak... jesus, she is never even had a drink.
well... it will probably work out. we can keep her loaded and peddle her ass at the drug convention.
listen, she is running away from home for something like the fifth time in six months. it is terrible.
she is perfect for this gig. these cops will go fifty bucks a head to beat her into submission and then gang fuck her. we can set her up in one of these back street motels, hang pictures of jesus all over the room, then turn these pigs loose on her... hell she is strong; she will hold her own.
jesus christ. i knew you were sick but i never expected to hear you actually say that kind of stuff.
it is straight economics. this girl is a god-send. shit, she can make us a grand a day.
no! stop talking like that.
i figure she can do about four at a time. christ, if we keep her full of acid that is more like two grand a day. maybe three.
you filthy bastard. i should cave your fucking head in.
in a few hours, she will probably be sane enough to work herself into a towering jesus-based rage at the hazy recollection of being seduced by some kind of cruel samoan who fed her liquor and lsd, dragged her to a vegas hotel room and savagely penetrated every orifice in her body with his throbbing, uncircumcised member.
no! i felt sorry for the girl, i wanted to help her!
you will go straight to the gas chamber. and even if you manage to beat that, they will send you back to nevada for rape and consentual sodomy. she is got to go.
the only alternative was to take her out to the desert and feed her remains to the lizards. but, it seemed a bit heavy for the thing we were trying to protect: my attorney.
we have to cut her loose. she is got two hundred dollars. and we can always call the cops up there in montana, where she lives, and turn her in.
what?... what kind of goddamn monster are you?
it just occurred to me, that she has no witnesses. anything that she says about us is completely worthless.
us?
okay, lucy, it is time to go meet barbra...
i felt like a nazi, but it had to be done.
i gave the cabbie an extra ten bucks to make sure she gets there safe. also, i told him I would be there myself in an hour, and if she wasn't, I would come back out here and rip his lungs out.
that is good. you can not be subtle in this town.
as your attorney, i advise you to tell me where you put the goddamn mescaline.
maybe we should take it easy tonight.
right. let's find a good seafood restaurant and eat some red salmon. i feel a powerful lust for red salmon...
i saw these bastards in easy rider, but i did not believe they were real. not like this. not hundreds of them!
they are actually nice people when you get to know them.
man, i know these people in my goddamn blood!
do not mention that word around here. you will get them excited.
this is a fucking nightmare.
right. sure as hell some dope-dealing bomb freak is going to recognize you and put the word out that you are partying with a thousand cops.
I am a whiskey man myself. we do not have much trouble from drugs where i come from...
you will. one of these nights you will wake up and find a junkie tearing your bedroom apart.
naw!
they will climb right into your bedroom and sit on your chest with big bowie knives. they might even sit on your wife's chest. put the blade right down on her throat.
not down in my parts.
rum and ice, please.
you are another one of these california boys. your friend here's been tellin' us about dope fiends.
they are everywhere. nobody's safe. and sure as hell not in the south. they like warm weather... you would never believe it. in l.a. it is out of control. first it was drugs, now it is witchcraft.
witchcraft? shit, you can not mean it!
read the newspapers.
man, you do not know trouble until you have to face down a bunch of these addicts gone crazy for human sacrifice!
naw! that is science fiction stuff!
not where we operate.
hell, in malibu alone, these goddamn satan worshippers kill six or eight people every day. all they want is the blood. they will take people right off the street if they have to.
just the other day we had a case where they grabbed a girl right out of a mcdonald's hamburger stand. she was a waitress, about sixteen years old... with a lot of people watching, too!
what happened? what did they do to her?
do? jesus christ, man. they chopped her goddamn head off right there in the parking lot! then they cut all kinds of holes in her head and sucked out the blood!
and nobody did anything?
what could they do? the guy that took the head was about six-seven, and maybe three-hundred pounds. he was packing two lugers, and the others had m-16s.
they just ran back out into death valley -- you know, where manson turned up...
like big lizards.
...and every one of them stacked naked...
naked!?
naked.
yeh, naked!... except for the weapons.
they were all veterans.
yeh. the big guy used to be a major in the marines.
a major!
we know where he lives, but we can not get near the house.
naw! not a major.
he wanted the pineal gland.
really?
that is how he got so big. when he quit the marines he was just a little guy.
what is wrong with you? hell, somebody has to do it.
hurry up with those drinks. we are thirsty. only two rums. make mine a bloody mary.
hell, i really hate to hear this. because everything that happens in california seems to get down our way, sooner or later. mostly atlanta. but that was back when the goddamn bastards were peaceful. all we had to do was to keep 'em under surveillance. they did not roam around much... but now jesus, it seems nobody's safe.
you are going to need to take the bull by the horns -- go to the mat with this scum.
what do you mean by that?
you know what i mean. we have done it before and we can damn well do it again!
cut their goddamn heads off. every one of them. that is what we are doing in california.
what?
sure. it is all on the q.t., but everybody who matters is with us all the way down the line.
we keep it quiet. it is not the kind of thing you would want to talk about upstairs. not with the press around.
hell, no. we would never hear the goddamn end of it.
dobermans do not talk.
what?
sometimes it is easier to just rip out the backstraps.
they will fight like hell if you try to take the head without the dogs.
what is the message? my light is blinking.
ah, yes. mr. duke? you have one message: "call lucy at the americana hotel, room 1600."
holy shit!
mr. duke? hello, mr. duke, I am sorry we were cut off a moment ago... i thought i should call again, because i was wondering...
what?  what was that crazy bitch said to him?  there is a war on, man! people are being killed!
killed?
in vietnam! on the goddamn television!
oh... yes... yes... this terrible war. when will it end?
tell me. what do you want?
the woman who left that message for you sounded very disturbed. i think she was crying...
crying? why was she crying?
well, uh. she did not say mr. duke. but since i know you are here with the police convention...
look, you want to be gentle with that woman if she ever calls again. we are watching her very carefully... this woman has been into laudanum. it is a controlled experiment, but i suspect we will need your cooperation before this thing is over.
well, certainly... we are always happy to cooperate with the police...
do not worry. you are protected. just treat this poor woman like you would treat any other human being in trouble.
what? ah... yes, yes, i see what you mean... yes... so, you will be responsible then?
of course. and now i have to get back to the news. send up some ice.
good work.  they will treat us like goddamn lepers after that.
lucy is looking for you.
no, she is looking for you.
me?
she really flipped over you. the only way i could get rid of her was by saying you were taking me out to the desert for a showdown -- that you wanted me out of the way so you could have her all to yourself.  i guess she figures you won. that phone message was not for me, was it?
ok, goddamnit!... look... I will call her. I will get her off our backs. you are right. she is my problem.
it is gone too far.
relax. let me handle this.  you would make a piss-poor lawyer... room 1600, please.  as your attorney, i advise you not to worry.  take a hit out of that little brown bottle in my shaving kit.
what is this?
you will not need much. just a little tiny taste, that stuff makes pure mescaline seem like ginger-beer. adrenochrome.
adrenochrome...
hi, lucy?  yeah, it is me. i got your message... what? hell, no, i taught the bastard a lesson he will never forget... what?  no, not dead, but he will not be bothering anybody for a while. yeah. i left him out there, i stomped him, then pulled all his teeth out...
i remember thinking, "jesus, what a terrible thing to lay on somebody with a head full of acid."
i remember slumping on the bed, his performance had given me a bad jolt. for a moment i thought his mind had snapped -- that he actually believed he was being attacked by invisible enemies. but the room was quiet again.
where did you get this?
never mind, it is absolutely pure.
jesus... what kind of monster client have you picked up this time? there is only one source for this stuff -- the adrenaline gland from a living human body!
i know, but the guy did not have any cash to pay me. he is one of these satanism freaks. he offered me human blood -- said it would take me higher than I have ever been in my life.  i thought he was kidding, so i told him I would just as soon have an ounce or so of pure adrenochrome -- or maybe just a fresh adrenaline gland to chew on.
i could already feel the stuff working on me -- the first wave felt like a combination of mescaline and methedrine -- maybe i should take a swim, i thought...
why not? we should get some of that. just eat a big handful and see what happens.
some of what?
extract of pineal!
sure. that is a good idea. one whiff of that shit would turn you into something out of a goddamn medical encyclopedia.
man, your head would swell up like a watermelon, you would probably gain about a hundred pounds in two hours...
right!
...grow claws... bleeding warts.
yes!
...then you would notice about six huge hairy tits swelling up on your back...
man I will try about anything; but I would never touch a pineal gland.
finish the fucking story! what happened?! what about the glands?
please... please... I am only the maid. i did not mean nothin!...
you are under arrest!
what made you do it? who paid you off?
nobody. I am the maid!
you are lying! you were after the evidence. who put you up to this -- the manager?
i do not know what you are talking about!
bullshit! you are just as much a part of it as they are!
part of what?
the dope ring. you must know what is going on in this hotel. why do you think we are here?
i know you are cops, but i thought you were just here for that convention. i swear! all i wanted to do was clean up the room. i do not know anything about dope!
come on, baby do not try to tell us you never heard of the grange gorman.
no! no! i swear to jesus i never heard of that stuff!
maybe she is telling the truth. maybe she is not part of it.
no! i swear I am not!
in that case, maybe she can help.
yes! I will help you all you need! i hate dope!
so do we, lady.
i think we should put her on the payroll. see what she comes up with.
do you think you can handle it?
what?
one phone call every day. just tell us what you have seen. do not worry if it does not add up, that is our problem.
you would pay me for that?
you are damn right. but the first time you say anything about this, to anybody -- you will go straight to prison for the rest of your life. what is your name?
alice. just ring linen service and ask for alice.
alright, alice... you will be contacted by inspector rock. arthur rock. he will be posing as a politician.
inspector rock will pay you. in cash. a thousand dollars on the ninth of every month.
oh lord! I would do just about anything for that!
you and a lot of other people.
the password is: "one hand washes the other." the minute you hear that, you say "i fear nothing."
i fear nothing.
oh, and do not bother to make up the room. that way we will not have to risk another of these little incidents, will we?
whatever you say, gentlemen. i can not tell you how sorry i am about what happened...
do not worry, it is all over now. thank god for the decent people.
fuck the car. they should make these things with a goddamn fm radio.
yeh... this foreign made crap -- is sucking our dollar balance dry!
there was nothing in the atmosphere of the north star to put me on my guard...
two glasses of ice water with ice.
i was stupid with shock -- not knowing whether to run or start laughing.
how much is the lemon meringue pie?
her eyes were turgid with fear, but her brain was functioning on some basic motor survival level.
what are you doing? you were supposed to turn back there!
we had abused every rule that vegas lived by -- burning the locals, abusing the tourists, terrifying the help. the only chance now, i felt, was the possibility that we would gone to such excess that nobody in the position to bring the hammer down on us could possibility believe it.
the airport is over there!
never missed a plane yet.
no! i can not get out! they will crucify me. I will have to take the blame!
ridiculous! just say you were hitchhiking to the airport and i picked you up. you never saw me before. shit, this town is full of white cadillac convertibles. i plan to go through there so fast that nobody will even glimpse the goddamn license plate. you ready?
why not? but for christ's sake, just do it fast!
do not take any guff from those swine. remember, if you have any trouble you can always send a telegram to the right people.
yeah... explaining my position. some asshole wrote a poem about that once...
where ya comin' from, young man?
las vegas.
a great town, that vegas. i bet you had good luck there. you are the type.
i know. I am a triple scorpio.
that is a fine combination. you can not lose.
oh, my god!...
this is my granddaughter...
do not worry...  ...and I am actually the district attorney from ignoto county.  just another good american like yourself.
