thanks, dad.  I will call you.
you have everything, kimberly? credit card, cell phone, aaa card?
relax, dad.  it is daytona, not mongolia.
fix-a-flat?  road flares? sunblock?  mace?
i know this is the first time we have been apart since.  but everything's going to be okay.
i know, honey.  i just --
your mother would have been so proud of the way you have handled yourself through all of this...
i know, dad.
want me to drive?
no, I am good.
dano, should not we go back and help your mother?
blow me.
calm down, kimmy.  it is not drugs, just weed.
yeah, you should have specified.
kimberly?  it is dad.
hey, dad.  what is up?
your car's leaking either transmission or brake fluid.  i want you to have it checked asap at a gas station.
you got it, dad.  I will call you if i have a problem.
i mean it.  take care of it.
i will, dad.  bye, luv you.
this trip better be worth it. what is the guy-girl ratio again?
get ready to smile, five guys per girl.
i can live with thaaaa --
damn, it really hurts, mom.
i know, we will be there soon.
a trans am.  that shit went out with new kids on the block.
yeah.  who does he think he is? knight rider?
who?
what is the chance of finding a nice mature guy once we get to daytona?
how does a nice mature fuck sound?
dano, should not we stop and help your mother?
blow me.  yellow means go, kimberly.
what is it?  what are you?
there is going to be a huge accident! everyone's going to die.  all of us!  i saw it!
dano, should not we stop and help your mother?
blow me.  yellow means go, kimmy.
what is it?  what are you?
there is going to be a huge accident! everyone's going to die, all of us, i saw it!
relax, you need to chill the fuck out.
highway to hell, highway to hell.
for christ sakes girl, take a breath.
what is going on here?
there is going to be a pile up.  logs. bodies everywhere.  i saw it happen. it happened.
what on earth are they doing?
who am i, david blane?
that is the truck that is going to kill everyone!
alright miss, calm down.  i just need this lane open.  i need you to pull your vehicle onto the shoulder!
you are not listening to me!  you have to do something!
tell me again how it started.
like i said, it was like i was there. i remember everything.  the sounds of the crashes, the smells, the look on shaina's face...
do you remember what triggered it all?
the log truck...and everybody i guess. everyone was driving like a maniac. and somehow i knew something horrible was going to happen, even before it did.
more than that.  all the songs on the radio were about car crashes. some kid's banging toy cars together.  she was dialing her cell phone with her headset on.  his car was leaking oil all over the road.
hey, do not be knockin' the chevette.
billboards about accidents.  kids yelling "pile up" for no reason. it all felt...just wrong. just like...
like what?
you mean alex browning.
...my premonition was just like his.
tell me you did not start up on that flight 180 shit again.  did you?
of course not.  that would be irresponsible and unprofessional.
look, you were not there.  it was weird.  she knew that log truck was going to cause an accident, she knew.  never mind.
i thought we were finished with this bullshit.  this is police work, not the psychic hot line.
you are all certifiable, you know that?  i can not believe I have been listening to this crap.  come on, tim, let's go outside.
jeez, mom, stop trippin'.
first I am stuck with jury duty, now this nonsense.
yeah, i hate to love and leave ya, but I have been over this x-files shit since the sixth season.
i know it is crazy, but I am really scared for the others.  I have got this terrible feeling.
what feeling?
that it is not over yet.
you have made your point.
good.  cause we just got some new info and i do not need you getting freaky on me.
what?
evan shaeffer's dead.  guess he was not as lucky as we thought.
mom?
yeah?
you think... you think those guys were b.s.-ing us today or what?
I am sorry.  I am just so happy that you are safe.
i love you too, dad.  goodnight.
there were so many times i did not think i could last another day.  i can not even tell you some of the things i thought about.
i used to have those feelings, too. but that is when I would think of mom. her strength...and courage.  and I would pray that maybe I would grow up to be as brave as she was.  and the bad thoughts would go away.
i do not know what I would do if i lost you.
kimberly burroughs, eh?  what do you want?
i thought...i thought you might be able to help me.
yeah, how?
i had a premonition about the route 18 pile up... i saved some people. and now i think death is after me.
nice work.  maybe if you are real lucky, you will wind up in here with me.  but i doubt you will survive that long.
it is not just about me.  someone i saved died last night in a freak accident.  what if the others are in danger, too?
well, if you put them on the list, they are already tits up.
what list?
death's list.  the precise order you are going to die in.
the survivors of flight 180 died in the exact order they were originally meant to die in the plane crash. that was death's original design.
exact order?  then I am next!  i was meant to die with my friends, so I am next!
officer burke pulled me away from the crash that killed my friends.
congratufuckinglations.  that makes you last to go.  but do not worry, once the others are dead, it will come back for you.  always does.
that still does not make sense.  you said you die in the same order you were originally meant to.  but evan shaeffer died last in my premonition, not first.
that is good.  get all your tears out now, you will need your eyes.  for the signs.
signs?
if you have the same power as alex, you will be seeing signs soon.  when you see anything creepy or ominous, an in-your-face irony kinda thing? do not ignore it.  it usually means the difference between life and death.
the songs on the radio.  but wait.  i do not understand.  why is this even happening to me?
that is what alex used to ask himself right up until...
i did not beat it; i hid from it. if you were smart you would put a down payment on a burial plot and say goodbye to the dog, because what little life you have left is over as you know it.  do not make new friends, do not fall in love, and do not ever bother trying to save others.  that is the worst killer of them all.
how can you say that?  what kind of monster are you?
i tried calling last night but your father --
evan shaeffer's dead.
i know.  I have gotten calls all morning from everyone who was on the onramp. we are all meeting at my apartment tonight.
then you believe all this??  that death is working off a list?
i didn't.  until i was dispatched to clean up one of the flight 180 survivors.
clean up?  i don't...
pigeons... it is a sign!  if clear's right about the order, then nora and tim are going to be attacked by pigeons!
I am not following you --
they are next on the list.  we have to find them.
you think the tooth fairy's going to come tonight?  I am thinkin' like fifteen bucks.
nice try, kiddo.
turn around.  the cleaning woman said they are at the dentist's. 14th and main.
hold on.
nora's not coming.  she refuses to leave her son.
we have to tell her she is in danger!
i did.  and right now, i do not think she cares.
the second one just dies.  a 16 year old kid.
i hope you are ready for this.
this is cheery.
who is this guy, anyway?
a mortician.  he seemed to know a hell of a lot more about death than he ever told us.
should we knock?
he probably already knows we are coming.
new life defeats death?  follow the signs?  where the hell did you find that guy?
yeah, i thought he was supposed to be helpful.
you have to tell us now.
i...i...
i was driving a white van.  it must have gone out of control because it crashed into a lake and i drowned.  it was...horrible.
you were there?
i can practically taste the water in my throat.  and something else.  the smell of flowers...
then it was not just a sign. it was a premonition?
remember the onramp?  there was a pregnant woman in a white delivery van.
holy shit.  he said "only new life can defeat death."  if she gives birth to a baby that was never meant to be born, a brand new soul that was never part of death's design...
it throws the entire death list out of whack.  and a new list has to be rewritten from scratch.  we all start over with a clean slate.
it sounds all well and good, but what if we are wrong?
please, what else could it mean?
so if you give us the pregnant lady's number, we can warn her about the lake and she will live long enough to have the baby.
so let's do it.
shit, i do not have her number.  she was never interviewed.  she took off right after the accident.
how are we going to find her?  there must be thousands of white vans in this state.
hey, I am a police officer, remember?
make sure all these people will be at the meeting tonight.
taken care of.
here we go.  the vehicle's a delivery van registered to jorge and isabella cruz.  and christ, there is almost a dozen domestic disturbance complaints on these two.
we need to hurry.
what?
I am officer burke.  I am looking for an isabella cruz.
are you jorge cruz?
maybe.  what is this about?
may we come in?
no.  what is this about?
we had a fight.  some things got broken, the dog went crazy, she left me.  would not say where she was going.
what was the fight about?
take a guess.
does she have a cell phone?  a way we can contact her?
she did.
this can not be happening.  my career's at a peak, i finally met a cute guy, i just bought a new house...
just shut the fuck up and maybe you will live.
the only reason he was on route 18 was because he own the lottery and had to collect the winnings.
that lucky bastard.
what about the rest of you?  kimberly, you were driving to daytona.  was route 18 your first choice?
jury duty?  that is randomly selected by social security numbers.
random, sure.
what, you think death planned for each of us to die in the pile up weeks ago?  you are nuts.
last july i dialed a wrong number and got a radio station by accident. they asked me what number means "good luck" in jewish.
eighteen.  and it is "hebrew".
anyway, i guessed it right and won these.
the best way to get to yankee stadium is route 18.
i do not know what is weirder, the dialing a wrong number part or that death would set you up nine months in advance.
whoa, nine months?
are you thinking what I am thinking?
um, clear?  I am sorry...about before. i...
your entire world view just went out the window.  i could not expect a religious conversation overnight. we will get through this.  i promise.
can i ask you a question?
sure.
when i die.  is it gonna hurt?
i...i do not know.
and you are going to die after me, right?
i guess so.
would you take these?  and if i die...  could you throw all my drugs out? paraphernalia, porno, you know... anything that would break my mom's heart.
guys, let's not panic.  isabella's safe.
how do you know?
you said she was going to drive into a lake.  how can she when she is in protective custody?
what do you mean "grand theft auto?" this is insane.
hopefully the district judge can straighten it all out by monday morning.
jorge.  when i get out of here I am going to sue his cheating ass off.
damn, they always stick me with the clunker.
take my van!
here's what i do not get.  for nine months, death does all this shit to make sure i win these tickets and end up on route 18 at exactly the right time for the pile up...
yeah?
but why single me out?  what am i in the great scheme of things?  you would think i stepped off flight 180 or something... fucking weird, man.
i got that beat.  so like, last may, i was supposed to stay at this cheesy bed and breakfast in pennsylvania. there was a major gas leak no one knew about and all the guests suffocated during the night.
yeah, so what happened?
i never mad it.  the greyhound bus i was on splattered some chick all over the road and we had to stop.
i had tickets to go, but one day I am in paris, trippin' on acid, sippin' lattes an' such, and this dude gets whacked by a falling sign.
carter.
freaked me out so bad i hid in a shopping cart for four hours. 'course, missed the show...
what about you, kimberly?  did you anyone from flight-?
I am not sure i understand.
being alive after our time caused an outward ripple - a rift in death's design.
so if you never got off the plane, none of us would be alive in the first place.
that is why death is working backwards. it is tying up all the loose ends, sealing the rift once and for all this chapter of the screenplay contains scene that do not appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. in order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
please.  it is not going to wait.
I have got to stop and help those people.
do you want to deliver this baby?
stop it, do not move him!
he can not breathe damn it.  i think his lung's collapsed!
what about that?
how you doing in there, hero?
what are you doing?  you are going to kill us!
no.  if anyone dies from a crash now, it will be me.  but i can not die if eugene and isabella are still alive.  I am last on death's list.
are you crazy?  what makes you think you would survive?
what happened when eugene tried to kill himself out of turn?
six duds in a row.
and when it was rory's turn to die, and thomas was in the way?
this makes no sense.  isabella was supposed to crash her van into a lake.  could we have altered her destiny when we had her arrested?
i do not think so.  alex's premonitions happened exactly as he saw them no matter how much we tried to change it.
then the only way to survive is to get to the hospital and protect eugene and isabella for as long as we can.
if only alex and i had done that with the others, alex might still be...
um, kimberly?  this is a neighborhood. you may wanna slow it down.
do not worry.  nothing can happen to us.
i was not worried about us.
what did you see?  what am i looking for?
no, it is not here.  this one was different.  more like the pile up and the van going into the lake.
another premonition?
yes.  i was in a hospital.  there was screaming... a nurse was choking me.  i could not tell what she looked like, but the name tag was right in my face.  kalarjian.
kalarjian?
i think a nurse named kalarjian is going to choke isabella to death!
should not we pull over?
no time.  keep going.  i would not know how to explain any of this anyway.
what do you want me to do?
speed up.
yeah, fuck 'em.  no offense.
a guard grabbed me before i could find eugene.
do not sweat it.  it is over.
she had the baby?
are you okay?  you just face planted!
i know how it feels to be dead.
what did you see?
i was dead.  and came back to life. an eeg machine.  where is eugene?
but it is over.  isabella's baby was the key.  you saw her die and everything, right?
i don't...what if i made a mistake?
impossible.  she was on the onramp.
I am not sure... i do not think isabella was ever destined to die in the pile- up.
then what is the premonition of the lake supposed to mean?
no!  it can not be.
i have to save eugene!
you can not cheat destiny.  i know what i have to do to save us.  i have to die.
that is crazy.  you can not give up now.  we can still fight this thing.
welcome back.  we did it.  for real.
i know.  i can feel it too.
for god's sake, leave him alone, dad.
yeah, do not make me cite you for harassment.
