you are not going to play it again.
well, lemme play the other side then.
no.
now quit, bobby. you said you are goin' a help me pick a song.
you said.
well, lemme sing the one i picked an' see what you think...  "when there is a fire in your heart/break the glass/sound the alarm..."
how 'bout if i just cut off your damn water?
I am too moved by your gentility to speak.
sugar, you know how i feel about you, do not you? I am just tryin' to get you to take an interest in my kind a things, an' what I am tryin' to do with myself...  you know, there id'n anything in the world i would not do for you, baby. i started livin' the day i found you, you know that?
you are playing the other side.
cerveza.
serveza yourself!
now, now.
no, dammit, i would easy.
why'nt you take 'at sign off your tit, ray, an' let's go on out.
out where?
I will go out with you, or I will stay here, and do anything you would like for me to do... if you will just do one thing. if you will tell me that you love me.
you can sing the song.
you know what, you are never satisfied.
that is right, hand.
I am tryin', baby, so do not start gettin' mad now.
no, I am not mad at you, hand. it will be all right. just spot and follow through...
is it my turn again?
right. now show me a little somethin' this time, okay? give me some form...
i can not help it, honey, the ball just keeps goin' cocky wobbly on me...
will you just do what the hell i tell you...
i did, didn' i, el?
you got another ball comin'.
that was damn good, wad'n it? i finally did it...
yeah, great.  why do not you throw z's for 19 frames, and then roll a strike on the last ball in the last frame of a losing game? just wonderful.
was not it, ladies?
are you talking to us?
we got to get on home an' relieve the sitter. why'nt you an' ray come on over.
okay. go ahead. I will settle up for the beers...  an' walk rayette over with you, will you.
can i get you anything else?
no. how much do i owe you?
five'll do it.
we been wantin' to ask you something. are you the guy on yv?
am i on tv?
she says you are the one that sells all the cars on tv.
well, i do not claim to have sold 'em all. they still have some left, i believe.
see, i told you it was him...  your name's donnie something, right?
i leave it to you.
my name is shirley, but they call me betty, and her name's twinky.
twinky?
yeah, 'cause she is so "twinky"...
well, betty and twinky, it sure is nice talking to you girls. i just wish i had more time...
that is a wig you wear, is not it?
a wig?
yeah, i told her it was you, but that you are wearing a wig, 'cause on tv you are mostly bald in the front.
your little friend's real sharp there...  yeah, i do not like to wear the wig on tv, because with two and a half million people watching you, you have got to be sincere. i just like to wear it when I am out slippin' around bowling alleys an' things like that. i think it gives me a little more class, do not you?
I am going to give you our number, donnie, just in case...  we are both professionals, if you did not guess.
well, you seem very professional...
i always tell everyone the same thing. i got rolled and beat up real bad recently, and since then it is two for one, an' i work strictly in tandem with betty...
come on. we are goin' over to elton's.
I am not.
you just going to sit there?
yes.
okay. hope no one hits on you.
i hope they do.
come on, dipesto. we can still have a good time.
you are the pathetic one, not me.
I am going on over there...
I am not some piece a crap.
i know you are not.
you treat me like i was.
I am sorry.
you go slippin' around in front a my face, an' in front a elton an' stoney. what do you imagine they think a someone you treat that way...
now, hand...
elton and stoney know how i feel about you. an' they are just goin' to think I am not too nice a guy, which I am not, an' that you are a hell of a person puttin' up with me, that is all.
you are goin' a find me dead one time.
sssh, come on now...  be a good girl.
if you really want a get up an' leave me, you can read about it in the newsprint.
I am not going to get up an' leave you.  now let's go over to el's an' have a good time.
do you love me, bobby?
give 'em the horn, bob.
look at these assholes! what the hell are they doing?!
well, id'n that nice.
it is ridiculous! I am sitting here, listening to some asshole cracker compare his life to mine!
if you are sayin' you are somethin' better'n what i am, that is one thing. but i can not say much a someone who would run off an' leave a woman in a situation like this an' feel easy about it. an' that is all i got to say.
i hope that is all you got to say, el, 'cause I am about as tired of your mouth as i am workin' this stinkin' hole!
tell me what in the hell's going on, elton!
i got accused a robbin' a fillin'station down in the indian nation, didn' i tell you...
miss dupea.
yes.
I would like to remind you again, this is not an opera or a musical comedy.
oh... I am sorry. was i singing again?
if you want to call it that.
well, you have to simply tell me, that is all.
that is exactly what i am doing, again.
do you have to let me get halfway through the movement first? this is tiring me.
i have a suggestion. why do not we take a break.
oh, for pity's sake...
tea.
would you tell her bobby's here?
oh my goodness... bobby...
hi, tita.
robert eroica...
now don't...
no, I am not...  I am not.
that is good.
i just can not look at you.
don't, then.
you always do this to me.
well, i do not mean to.  here's your tea, tita.
thank you...  oh no, do not put it on there...
sorry.
this is a very special, very old cb 275...
oh.
you know who it once belonged to?
no.
waldnit von schnechter. prewar.
no kidding.
robert...
very nice.
i have to talk seriously with you...
everybody still up on the island?
well, herbert's mostly on the mainland because of the orchestra, so at the moment, there is just daddy, carl and myself... and van oost.
who is van oost?
catherine -- she is a pianist. she is working with carl.
carl's a fiddler. what is he doing coaching piano?
well, 11 months ago he was on his bicycle, on his way to the post office in la roche... and he ran into a jeep and sprained his neck...
it is not funny. he permanently sprained his neck, and since then it is been extremely difficult for him to tuck the violin.
crashes into a jeep and totals his neck.  that is carl...
robert, i have to tell you something...
what?
daddy's very ill.
oh, well, what, what is he...
he is had two strokes.
he is not... they feel he... maybe he might not recover, and that he will either...
do not tell me about this...
yeah... i guess so...
I am going back up tonight. will you go with me?
no...
I would rather drive up myself and... maybe go into canada after... and i can not stay long, tita, probably a week, at the most.
i know.
well...  i better let you...
wait...
maybe you better stay, then.
no, i need to talk to you, about so many things...
well, I will be seeing you in a couple of days, will not i?
oh god, I am so glad, robert, that you are coming...
yeah, me, too...
it will be so good for you, and for daddy, because you know, you have never really...
tita, I have got to go...
all right...
I will be gone two or three weeks.
you will be gone, period.
you like it?
i love it.
"you'll be burned out/or smoked out/an' come back to me, i know..."
"every trail that you blaze/makes me..."
what the hell is that?
look at my car! piece of shit! i just bought it brand new from a used-car lot, and the steering goes to the pot on me!
you are lucky no one was hurt.
seven hundred dollars, down the toilet! I would like to go back and punch the son of a bitch out! can you give us a lift?
come on, terry, we got a ride!
jesus, what a rude person...
what is your name?
palm apodaca.
what?
I will tell you...  ... l-a-t-e-r.
how far are you going to?
washington.
we will get off in washington and hook another ride.
where are you going?
alaska.
alaska? are you on vacation?
you do not have to tell everybody about it. pretty soon they will all go there and it will not be so clean.
how do you know it is clean?
i saw a picture of it. alaska is very clean. it appeared to look very white to me... do not you think?
yeah. that is before the big thaw.
i had to leave this place. i got depressed, seeing all the crap. and the thing is, they are making more crap, you know? they have got so many stores and stuff and junk full of crap, i can not believe it.
who?
who? people, that is who! pretty soon there will not be room for anyone. they are selling more crap that people go and buy than you can imagine. oofh! crap! i believe everybody should have a big hole where they throw in all this stuff and burn it.
there would never be a hole big enough. now took at me, for instance, when i was just one person, before bobby, i had so much garbage collectin' onto me every day, i was thinkin' about gettin a dispose all...
a dispose-all, what is that but more crap? I have never seen such crap. oofh, i do not know how people get up in the morning.
mass production is what does it.
what do you mean "mass"... i have to come out and tell you, you are not that clean, either.
wait a minute. I am not that neat, maybe, but i am clean.
well, you are not that bad, but some people... i mean, people's homes, just filth. I have been in people's homes...
in my personal observation, i think that more people are neat than are clean...
in my personal thing, i do not see that. I am seeing more filth. a lot of filth. what they need to do every day, no, once in a while, is a cockroach thing, where they spray the homes. and uh... can you imagine, if their doors were painted a pretty color, and they had a pot outside, with...
yeah, it could be adorable...
and they picked up! i mean, it would not be filthy, with coke bottles and whiskey, and those signs everywhere...
well...
it is just filthy. people are dirty. i think that is the biggest thing that is wrong with people. i think they would not be as violent if they were clean, because then they would not have anybody to pick on... oofh... dirt...
well...
not dirt. see, dirt is not bad. it is filth. filth is bad. that is what starts maggots and riots...
hey, follow that truck. they know the best places to stop.
that is an old maid's tale.
bullshit! truck drivers know the best eating places on the road.
salesmen and cops are the ones. if you would ever waitressed, honey, you would know.
do not call me "honey," mack.
do not call me "mack," honey.
i would not be a waitress. they are nasty and full of crap.
you better hold onto your tongue!
hold onto this.
just one minute, you! do not you ever talk to me like that!
shut up! all of you!
no substitutions.
what does that mean? you do not have any tomatoes?
no. we have tomatoes.
but i can not have any. is that what you mean?
only what is on the menu...  a number two: plain omelette. it comes with cottage fries and rolls.
i know what it comes with, but that is not what i want.
I will come back when you have made up your mind...
wait, I have made up my mind. i want a plain omelette, forget the tomatoes, do not put potatoes on the plate, and give me a side of wheat toast and a cup of coffee.
I am sorry, we do not have side orders of toast. i can give you an english muffin or a coffee roll.
what do you mean, you do not have side orders of toast? you make sandwiches, do not you?
would you like to talk to the manager?
hey, mack!
shut up.  you have bread, do not you, and a toaster of some kind?
i do not make the rules.
okay, I will make it as easy for you as i can. give me an omelette, plain, and a chicken salad sandwich on wheat toast -- no butter, no mayonnaise, no lettuce -- and a cup of coffee.
one number two, and a chicken sal san -- hold the butter, the mayo, the lettuce -- and a cup of coffee... anything else?
now all you have to do is hold the chicken, bring me the toast, charge me for the sandwich, and you have not broken any rules.
you want me to hold the chicken.
yeah. i want you to hold it between your knees.
fantastic! that you could figure all that out, and lay that down on her, to come up with a way you could get your toast.
i did not get it, did i?
no, but it was very clever... i would of just punched her out.
and you know, i read where they invented this car that runs on... that runs on... when you boil water...
steam.
right, steam. a car you could ride around in and not cause a stink. but do you know, they will not even let us have it. can you believe it? why?! man! he likes to create a stink. i wrote them a note once, and told them to clean it... i mean, do not you see that? it is just filthy! i mean, I have seen filth you would not believe! oofh, what a stink! i do not even want to talk about it...
are you depressed about your daddy, honey?
no.
i 'magine it is me then, id'n it?
is what you?
you are depressed that i come along.
who said i was depressed?
well, is that a happy face i see?
'cause if it was me, i could just catch a greyhound back.
oh, you are not going to kill yourself this time. i wish I would known...
why can not i go out to your folks' house? give me one good reason.
i have to see how things are first. my father's sick, you understand? they would not be prepared for me bringing anyone.
so how long am i supposed to sit an' twiddle my thumbs in this place?
if you can not do what i ask, ray, use that money to go back home, then.
bobby, do not talk like that...
okay, ray...
or maybe sit out by the pool an' get myself nice an' tan for you. would you like that?
sure...
it brings out my eyes...
bye, honey, I will call you in a couple of days.
okay...
four or five years.
no, the last time was three years ago.
oh no, it is been much more than that.
away from the piano, tita, you have no sense of time at all.
i do not think that is true.
it is true.
besides being very rude.
what have you been doing since then?
what have i been doing? different things, different jobs, here and there. nothing that interesting.
and you no longer play at all?
you know, just after i came back off tour with the betenthaller quartet, dad, myself and herbert had a summit conference about you...
oh, my, "a summit conference." i wonder where i was, polishing silver behind the coal bin.
i do not know where you were, penis envy.
i hope i did not hear that.
at any rate, dad wanted to hire a private detective to ferret you out, and i said, "what for?" whatever the hell he is doing, even if it is a completely wasteful escapade, it is entirely his business. simple as that...
well, i really appreciate it, carl.
i do not think you should infer daddy was wrong in front of him...
how long have you been staying here?
a couple of months.
did you hear about my misfortune, robert?
what?
it is still nearly impossible for me to turn my neck. if i wanted to turn toward catherine, for instance, I would first have to twist the whole base of my body around...  ... like this...
she is tremendously gifted, this girl.
is she?
i hope you feel at home, robert.  I am really glad you are here.
thanks, carl...
he has ways of communicating, robert. i can tell when he is expressing approval or disapproval, just from his eyes...
uhm hmm. some range.
it is not that bad.
yes, it is. i can not take seeing him, sitting there like a stone.
a week or two is not going to ruin your life, for godsakes.
i mean, you think I am that happy?
no, i don't.  you should have left a long time ago.
we can not all get up and leave, can we? i mean, there are certain needs you have to respond to...
what questions?
well, do you -- i mean, have you enjoyed all these... strange things you have been doing?
sometimes.
why? am i some kind of freak to you or something?
no, no, i do not think that, I am just curious about it...  do you think I am a freak?
sort of.
oh no... why? what is it? the way i look?
no, i do not really think you are a freak.
i probably am, but i do not care. i mean, i was not that blessed to begin with, and when would i have had time to make any improvements...
what about carl and catherine? is he just coaching her, or what?
constantly. night and day. and unless i get up before the birds, i can not get in any practice time for myself...
uhm hmm.
actually, it is very admirable, the way she works. she will probably be enormously successful, because she is attractive as well, not that that is so important in music, but...
you are attractive, tita. if you just did a little more with yourself...
like what?
well, if you just maybe did something with your hair, or...
oh, let's not talk about my hair, it does what it wants to, and anyway, who cares, i want to talk about you...
there is nothing to say, tita...
well, you are not going to run out on me right away, are you?
i do not know.
hello...
i guess you fell in the water.
yes, intentionally.
that is dangerous, you know.
swimming?
playing piano all day and then jumping into cold water. you could get a cramp.
i love to swim, and i do not mind the cold at all. it is invigorating.
well, i would not want to get too invigorated myself.
why?
what would i do with it? run amok?
besides piano and swimming, what else do you do?
well, there is fishing and boating. there is concerts on the mainland and... but i feel silly telling you. this is really your home. you probably know better than i what there is to do.
nothing.
nothing? then it must be very boring for you here.
that is right. have you anything to suggest?
i do not know. let me give it some thought.
right now I am going to run a hot tub and soak myself.
then after that?
after that, i plan to read some music and rest for awhile.
tomorrow, then.
tomorrow's a full practice day...  but the day after is kind of open.
carl has hydrotherapy on tuesdays.
the day after tomorrow.
if you are free.
yeah, I will probably be free.
what is wrong, carl, you hardly ate anything...
i took some aspirin and it really upset my stomach.
one thing that is hard to understand is how you could have this incredible background in music, and then just walk away from it, without a second thought...
i gave it a second thought.
i mean, how could you not play anymore? that is so strange to me...
i have played a few times. here and there. as a matter of fact, i was once a rehearsal pianist for a las vegas musical revue.
you do not call that music, though.
of course i do. it is music. you know...
robert, do you mind?
what?
nothing. will you excuse us for a while?
do you want some gingerbread?
what?
with applesauce?
no, thanks...
you sure you should be playing, carl?
what do you mean? aside from my neck, I am in superb shape.
I am not aware of it. like what?
your serve. two -- eighteen.
I have walked across a stage a number of times, without exciting any particular response...
that is what i mean...
look at that.
why are you being so mean?
I am not. he does walk funny. do not you see that?
i do not think I would notice. I am so used to carl.
yeah, well, he's...
i think he is got a terrific personality.
you know, he was formerly a sailor.
look, can not you see that, what I am talking about?
sailors are sadistic, i feel.
see? there is nothing wrong with the way i walk. now where are we?
at game, carl.
that is three games to none, carl.
all right, let's have a rematch.
i thought you had to go to the mainland today. are not you going to miss the ferry?
where is she, anyway?
my turn.
that was beautiful, robert. I am surprised...
thank you.
i was really very moved by the way you...
is that funny?
it was not supposed to be, it just struck me that way.
why?
nothing. it is just that... i picked the easiest piece i could remember. i think i first played it when i was 8 years old and i played it better then.
it does not matter. it was the feeling i was affected by.
i did not have any.
you had no inner feeling?
none.
then i must have been supplying it.
wait...
well, at least you are accomplished at something...
what?
at being a fake.
catherine...
no, you are very good at it. I am really impressed.
you think I am a fake.
i think it is what you think.
no, it is not what i think.
look... you made a very calculated move, and then made me feel embarrassed for responding to you. that was not necessary.
yes, it was. you have made it clear that if i can cut a little piano, i might get a little response.
i do not think that is accurate...
up to now, what I have been getting from you are meaningful looks over the dinner table and a lot of vague suggestions about the day after tomorrow...
I am not conscious of having given you any meaningful looks. and as for the day after tomorrow, this is the day after tomorrow, and i am, unfortunately, seeing you... now if you will excuse me, I would like to take a bath.
it is convenient to fake looking for something right now, is not it?
I am not faking anything. I am looking for some bath oil...
some bath oil?
i do not find your language that charming.
it is direct, anyway, which seems to be difficult for you.
I would like you to leave now. is that direct enough?
serious, that is what is important to you?
yes, that is what is important to me...
no, do not do that...
shut up...
no inner feeling.
that is right.
i do not believe vou.
i married him when i was 17. he was a cellist, and i thought he was the most brilliant man I would ever met... and I am sure he was, because at that age, i had not met that many... but he was insidious, you know. he had me convinced that i was a mediocrity, musically, as a woman, as an intellect. but in this completely imperceptible, pleasant way, so that you were not even sure he was doing it. anyway, i just woke up one morning and i said, you know something joseph, you are full of beans, and i left him...
that is what you said?
something witty and devastating like that.
as a matter of fact, he is the one who introduced me to carl...  how are you?
I am fine.
carl restored my confidence. he really did. he is much more substantial than you give him credit for.
is he?
yes.
do you think you could discreetly move across the hall now?
yeah, i think i could.
robert?
what?
i could spend some time with you tomorrow morning, before carl comes back, i mean, if you would like to.
of course I would like to.
this certainly is an improvement on the motel an' the coffee shop.  how could you have left such a beautiful place, bobby?
i do not know.
you have been staying in a motel all this time?
for two whole weeks, an' there was not hardly nobody there to talk to but me. the manager of the place told me it was the off season, an' it must a ben, because other'n me, there was just this 25-year-old kid, delyon, that did not appear to be all there, an' this old married pair next to me that was always hollerin' for quiet. can you imagine? all you could a heard there was a pin, an' them, hollerin' away...
i do not understand why you had to stay in a motel. there is more than enough room here.
well, i was goin' to, but bobby said he hadda kind of feel things up here first, which i can understand, but then it went an' took so long, i ran flat outa money...  i did not have no number to call, you know.  so i hadda clear outa there an' come on up here, in the hopes that i would not be intrudin' myself...
oh, no. you are more than welcome.
well, thank you, that is a very nice thing for you to say.
not at all.
rayette.
what?
just finish eating.
oh, am i holdin' up dessert?
no, you are not. go ahead and take your time.
i do eat slow as a bird, whereas bobby can put it away like a speed swing...  is there any ketchup around?
oh, for chrissakes...
robert, let's not be rude, okay?
it is all right. he do not mean anything by that.
i don't, huh?
where are you going?
I am going to pick up some friends of carl's. are you all right?
i have to talk to you.
I will be back later...
no, i want to talk to you now. i have to explain something about...
no, you do not have to, it is not necessary...
yes, it is!
come on, get moving, dammit!!
will you shut up for a minute!!  pull your car out of line.
no, i can't...
will you let me talk to you, please?
i can not do that. i have not been being fair to carl. i have to tell you that.
oh. you have to tell me that.
what?! i can not hear you!
I am sorry everything's been so confusing, but i have to go, robert...
catherine...
please, I will see you later this evening.
john believes in the basic goodness of man, and that is fine, but gaze into the pit like i have and that view seems a little soporific. and not unlike television, it hardly represents the real world...
there is some good things on it, though.
pardon me?
the tv. there is some good things on it, sometimes.
i strongly doubt it, but i was not really discussing media...
and what about love?
what about it? would not you agree that a great deal of mischief has been done in the name of love?
no, i wouldn't.
well, you are a romantic, catherine, as are most musicians, and what is more, about to be married...
... which should exclude you from any objective discussion. but keep in mind, even the arts are not free of aggressive content, nor the institution of marriage.
i think these cold, "objective" discussions are aggressive, samia...
but I would like to say, so that i do not dampen the spirit of your adventure...
you have not dampened my spirit, samia... excuse me.
well, i should hope not...
what kind of doggy is that?
it is a borzoi.
oh, uh huh. i had a little kittycat once, that bobby give me...
the choice of words, "squashed flat," juxtaposed against the image of a fluffy kitten...
well, she was.
perhaps...
robert, i think you better just...
you are all full of shit!
bobby...
i can not talk to you right now, leave me alone...
it is none of your business!
where is catherine?!
i do not know where she is!
I am talking to you, tita!
can not i have anything to myself, dammit?!
no. it is useless, robert. it would not work, not ever...
just give me a chance, will you?
I am trying to be delicate with you, but you are not understanding me. it is not just because of carl, or my music, but because of you...  i mean, what would it come to? if a person has no love for himself, no respect, no love for his work, his family, his friends, something... how can he ask for love in return? i mean, why should he ask for it?
and living out here, in this rest home asylum, that is what you want?
yes.
that will make you happy.
i hope it will, yes.  I am sorry.
you are leaving?
yeah. i said a week, and I have overstayed myself...
you were going without saying goodbye?
i did not want to say goodbye to anyone.
but what about me?
I will say goodbye to you, tita.
bye, now.
bye, robert.
come on.
wait a sec. i want tita to take a picture of you an' me in front of the place...
no, let's go...
I am going to go in that cafe an' get some coffee. you want anything?
no.
you got any change?
sure you do not want anything?
fill it up.
have not you got a jacket or anything with you?
no, i don't, i uh... it got burned up. everything in the car got the shit burned out of it. all i got left is what i have on...
I have got an extra jacket behind the seat, if you want to put it on.
no, it is okay.
suit yourself. but I will tell you, where we are headed is going to get colder'n hell.
it is all right. I am fine.
