i do not think the people who live around here would like that very much...
do you think they like the fact that tourism has dropped ninety-eight percent in the last ten years?
no, but...
and do you think they like the fact that half the country thinks crystal lake is filled with corpses?
that is not true...
we are not talking about truth, we are talking about perception. and the perception is that crystal lake means inbred psychopaths running around the hills with axes and hockey masks chopping up teenagers.  that, my dear, is what we call an _image problem_.
beautiful trees... sturdy trunks... lots of branches...  we can do some great logging up here.
logging? we will need an environmental impact study for that...
i do not think you are getting in the spirit of things, janet. we will buy whatever studies we need --
jesus christ!
just a deer, mister biller. part of the local wildlife.
get rid of them.
okay... well... i think it is this way...
great.
mister biller?
yeah?
i think we are lost.
you have a map.
i know... but we left the main trail... and i can not find any landmarks around here... I have been trying to figure it out but...
i did not think there were any houses up here...
you learn something new every day. let's go.
structure might be salvageable... let's see what the interior looks like.
mister biller... now that we can see the lake, i think we should follow the shoreline to --
help me with this.
there does not seem to be any water damage. kind of cozy, actually.
i really think we should go back...
i want to look at the rest of the house.
hello?
ken, it is bruce. listen, we have got a nibble on the pendleton financing.
really? how much?
fifty.
fifty? we need seventy-five.
ken, we have been through this...
you tell them if they come up to seventy-five, I will cut them in on the crystal lake package.
do not tell me you are still thinking of buying casa de psycho...
hey, smart-ass, I am up here right now in a... luxury alpine retreat, with a two million dollar view of the lake.
chain saws.
you want to put in chain saws?
no, no... listen, when i get back to new york we will meet with the board.
hello?
who is this? what is going on?
this is janet davenport -- I am the realtor.
where is ken? is he all right?
i do not know...
what about that other guy?
other guy?
yeah. ken said there was another guy there... _big_ guy... then he dropped the phone. what is going on?
janet, are you okay? are you there?
he... he is here...
who is there?
oh my god... this is his house... _we're in his fucking house_...
janet, goddamnit, what is going on?
jas... jason voorhees... he is here...
two.
I am not sure I would call them murder exactly. more like a couple of bar fights that got out of hand.
i seem to recall arguing the same thing in court while you were trying to file murder-one charges.
that is my job.
three.  where is my client?
your... client is being booked right now. he will be in cell five.
what are the charges?
shit. we are still putting the victim list together. you will need a forklift for the case file. i suggest you hire some help, and do not expect to get a lot of sleep for the next few months.  you are about to defend the most notorious serial killer in american history.
i thought that was ted bundy.
compared to this guy... amateur.
a house?
that is right. was not on any of the maps... we could barely see it through the underbrush. place must have been abandoned for twenty years.
ruby... this guy almost took out an entire tactical response team. you can not expect me to just leave you --
he does not look like he is going anywhere, bill. and if necessary, i can get a judicial order reaffirming the right of my client to speak to his attorney in private.
are you going to plead insanity?
i think it is our best bet. they are taking apart his house right now... they found weapons, blood, a mountain of evidence. we can not say he was framed.
sorry.
it is all right.  now... we are going to need a really good head-doctor for this. someone who can get up on the stand and tell the jury that our client is mentally insane and has been for years...  we will go through a dozen doctors before we find one who is willing to testify for us.
now... i think the video store's open for another couple of hours. let's go.
video store?
so... why can not jason get a fair trial?
because everyone knows he is guilty...
wrong. jason can not get a fair trial because of _these_.
you think that is going to work?
i do not know if anything's going to work in this case. therefore, we have to try everything.
you watch this garbage?
this is a legitimate cinematic genre. just like westerns, comedies, film noire, science fiction...
"zombie sluts from beyond the grave."
a seminal film. first ever depiction of a fully nude triple impalement.
quite a circus.
and we are in the center ring.  you sure you want to wear that blazer?
what?
you are about to be a media darling -- you might want to dress the part.
well?
he is fucking nuts.
great. is that what you are going to say when i put you on the stand?
no. when you put me on the stand, I will say your client is catatonic and exhibits classic symptoms of a schizophrenic, sociopathic personality.  and he does not sleep.
doesnit sleep?
insomnia. not unusual for someone in his situation.  not to mention he is a bed-wetter.
he wets the bed?
i always throw that in. it makes the jury feel sorry for the defendant.
oh?
one of the deputies is pretty cute. i think she likes me.
this is bad, joe. the prosecution is already putting together a team of psychiatric specialists. they will argue exactly the opposite. they will say he is just pretending to be catatonic and he is completely sane.
great. battling head doctors. we will confuse the jury enough to create a reasonable doubt. hung jury.
this is jason voorhees. they will be looking for an excuse to send him to the chair.  if we are going to argue insanity, we are going to need something a little more concrete.
nurses. that is why i went into medicine.
this sexual obsession of yours. have you considered going into therapy yourself?
no need. I am self-diagnosed. i have severe nympholepsy...  and I am a bed-wetter.
well, i definitely feel sorry for you.  august fourteenth, 1956... jason was brought in by his mother, who said the boy had not slept for two weeks. doctor prescribed valium...
i do not believe it. jason's mother died of ovarian cancer in 1969.
so?
i thought she was a killer, too. you know... that she chopped up a bunch of teenage camp counselors... before she was decapitated.
that is the problem with this case. everyone thinks they know jason's life story. but they don't. what you are remembering is a _movie_. fiction.	in the movie, jason's mother runs around, killing people after jason drowns in crystal lake
none of that is true?
well, jason _was_ in a canoe accident in 1967 and presumed drowned. his mother died a few years later after a long bout with cancer. some time in the early eighties, there were a string of murders out by crystal lake...  people started saying it was jason... back from the dead.
so, what are you saying... that he did not kill all those people?
my job is not to determine his guilt or innocence. that is up to the jury. my job is defend him.
do not get me wrong. i do not care. but the professional part of me is interested in how you rationalize what you do.
i do not "rationalize" anything. I am his lawyer -- he is my client. that is all.
that did not sound very convincing.
what do you want -- a tidy psychological profile? you want to hear that i was falsely accused of a crime i did not commit... and that is driven me to defend others? or maybe you want to me to get in touch with my feelings... talk about my childhood...
no. you have told me all i need to know.
oh?
you are obviously going through a critical moral dilemma. and you are putting up barriers against anyone who tries to probe your conscience.  but it is heartening to know that you do have a conscience.
not much here. jason was brought in a couple more times for insomnia... that is about it.
wait a minute. let me see that. she hands him the file.
the mother said the boy had not slept for over three _months_. a physical examination showed dilated pupils, temperature of one-oh-two, blood chemistry highly imbalanced...
that is pretty weird. is it possible for someone to not sleep for months?
it is rare... but there are cases where people go for years without sleep.  they diagnosed jason with simple insomnia... but that is not what it looks like to me. he has every indication of having _insomnolesence_.
insomnolesence...
it is a neurological disorder affecting the hypothalamus. the part of the brain that causes sleepiness is inactive. they did not know about it back in the sixties. even now, it is not understood very well.
so jason does not sleep... how does that help us?
insomnolesence has been known to cause psychotic episodes... delusions...
if we could prove that jason suffers from this disorder... and that his homicidal behavior has been a direct result of a medical condition...
not guilty by reason of insanity. case closed.
how do we prove it?
simple. we sedate him, induce a somnolesent state, and study his rem patterns when he is unconscious.  if he has the disorder, his rems will be highly abnormal. ruby smiles.
then I would say it is bedtime for jason.
how long will he need to be asleep?
we are going to need at least two full rem cycles to get a clear neurological profile. three hours minimum, six hours ideal.
well, that is it. he will be asleep in a few minutes, but his first rem-cycle probably will not kick in for another hour or so.  is there a place we can get something to eat in this town?
there is a pizza place over on market.
cute waitresses?
that is open to debate.
I will take my chances. come on, I am buying.
there is nothing to see here. he sleeps... we record it. that is all that happens.
he is my client, and this is important. enjoy your waitresses.
that is right... it... it came right out of his chest...
who is chest?
jason's. it came out of his chest... a hand with long blades on the fingers...
and this hand... it... it slashed doctor layton's throat... and the deputy. then it grabbed danny by the head...  and it pulled his head right down into his chest... i couldn't... hayes lays a hand his shoulder.
take it easy, ruby...	it's all right.  now, try to think clearly... do not you mean _jason's_ hand... do not you mean he grabbed a scalpel and slashed doctor layton's throat?
did you find a scalpel? did you find a murder weapon?
ruby, come on. you witnessed a brutal triple murder and you are having trouble accepting it.  think about what you are saying. you really expect a jury to believe that jason has a mystery killer living in his tummy?
i know how this sounds, but that is what happened.
i think I am onto something, joe.
me too. I am drunk.
well, I am onto something more useful.  you ever hear of a man named fred krueger?
krueger... does not ring a bell.
he was a child killer in the late sixties... in a town called springwood about eight miles from here.  guess what his murder weapon was? a glove with six-inch blades.
fascinating.
now.... according to the file, krueger was burned to death in a fire in 1968. but get this -- beginning in 1984, there was _another_ series of murders in springwood. all teenagers... all killed in their sleep... all killed with finger blades just like krueger's.
i thought you said krueger burned to death.
that is right. the murders in the eighties were never solved.  but... there were teenaged witnesses who said krueger had the ability to appear in your dreams... and that if he killed you in a dream, it would kill you in the real world.
uh-huh...
do not you see? jason was _asleep_. and he was dreaming -- the rem patterns prove that. and i saw finger blades just like krueger's come out of jason's chest. there has to be a connection.
yeah... i think i understand...  you are drunk, too.
see this?
yeah, what is it?
_it's a second rem pattern_.
it is as though there were two people in that room... both of them asleep... both of them dreaming.
that does not make sense.
add it to the list.
so what do we do?
i do not suppose i can go back to the university and chase young coeds again... pretend this whole thing never happened...
not yet.
then I would say we should put jason under again... run another tape on him and see what happens. we will get extra data this time. video... infrared... the works.
great.	when can you do it?
tomorrow. if you can clear it with the sheriff's department.
I will have to lean on them pretty hard after what happened last night... but i think i can do it.  let me know what happens.
you are not going to be there?
i was there once... that was enough. besides... i have to go out to jason's house tomorrow.  they're... digging up some new evidence.
i can not wait to hear your opening argument.	"ladies and gentlemen	of the jury... the defense will prove that jason voorhees did not kill all of these people. they, in fact, committed mass suicide and then buried themselves in his back yard..."
fuck you.
what is going on?
some kind of emergency back at the sheriff's station. four deputies shot... some kind of explosion... i do not know what is going on, but they are panicking back there.
it is still on.
what?
his camera... it is still recording.
what happened?
_krueger_...
who?
come on.
it is all right. I am simply in shock... this is what happens to people when they experience events they can not understand or comprehend. the mind shuts down temporarily and tries to shield itself from the horrific imagery it is been exposed to.  I am going to need a lot of therapy.
it was krueger, was not it?
you saw him?
a cameraman caught him on videotape. joe, i saw an entire sheriff's squad fighting and losing against an enemy that was not there...
what are you doing?
checking out a theory. just keep talking to him.
this is jason's rem pattern... and this is the boy's rem pattern. they are identical.
how is that possible?
jason's asleep... maybe he is dreaming of himself as a young boy... and that boy is sitting right here.  i think he is some kind of projection from jason's subconscious.
so krueger thinks jason's dead... leaves him in the lake... but the boy actually wakes up on the shore... crawls off into the woods... where he lives the rest of his life alone.
alone... but with a murderous fury inside him... which led him to kill dozens of people.
if I am right, this happened before the krueger murders in springwood.  that means that jason might have been krueger's first victim.
except this victim got away. i wonder if --
where is he going?
i do not know... but i think he is pissed.
great. now there is _two_ serial killers on the loose.
krueger's the greater danger right now. we have to stop him.  _springwood_. that is where he will go. that is where he is always gone.	but springwood's not like crystal lake. there is a couple hundred thousand people there. he could be anywhere.
you know how to use one of those?
i used to go hunting with my father when i was a kid.
think it will do any good?
krueger's in the real world... maybe he is mortal, like us.
and if he is not?
then we are all in a lot of trouble.
what is that?
_neurolar_. it is a stimulant -- it is also a serotonin inhibitor. it suppresses all electrical activity in the hippocampus... the part of the brain that controls dreaming.
so you think it might counteract krueger's ability to make us hallucinate?
ten cc's of this shit and you will not be dreaming about anything.
how long will the effect last?
about ten minutes.
ten minutes...
if i give you a bigger dose, it will give you a heart attack.
we are down to seven minutes.
let's split up. you take the left side, I will take the right. we will meet in front of the cineplex.
are you all right?
for the moment! you have only got about two minutes left! hurry! ruby takes off towards the cineplex...
what happened? where is jason?
my client... is dead.  but i think he is a free man.
