well...how do you feel?
ask me in about five minutes.
what is wrong?
nothing.
what murders?
never mind, you do not want to know about it.
tell me.
there is nothing to worry about, suzy. the guy's dead now, somewhere at the bottom of this lake...if you believe the stories.  let's drop it, okay?
right.
i mean, lakeview high just closed its doors for good, right?
right.
so there is no reason for him to come back because there will not be any of us around...right?
did you hear that?
hear what?
all right, all right -- I am a major ass.
and you will never do it again.
and I will never do it again. forgive me?
no.
which cabin is rennie in, mr. mcculloch?
rennie's not coming.
but i thought...
she changed her mind.  let's see...mr. wolfe is in stateroom one-eleven and you, mr. robertson, are in two-twenty-five.
I am glad you decided to come after all.
me too. but I am not sure uncle charles will be.
you let me worry about him, okay?  personal experiences are what fuel the minds of great writers, rennie. you made the right decision.
what about not-so-great writers?
everything okay?
just felt a little chill.
did you know that I am giving up teaching?
really?
since the school is closing anyway, I am going to write that novel I have been threatening on everybody.
that is wonderful, miss van deusen...what's it about?
stephen king supposedly used it when he was in high school.
i do not know what to say...
rennie, you are the best student i ever had...you have a real gift. if anybody can make use of that pen, it is you.
i hear the crew members are cute guys in their twenties.
really?
I am sure we will have no problem getting them to party with us...especially with this.
it is my graduation gift from daddy. it cost over a thousand bucks but it is the best.
he bought you that?
more or less. it is part of my college fund.
all right. but if it mysteriously disappears en route, I will have you sent back home the minute we dock. understood?
perfectly.
a major prick.
what are you going to do?
improvise, of course.
hello, charles. has everyone checked in?
jim miller and suzy donaldson never showed up. I am a little concerned.
do not be. they probably decided to explore each other rather than new york.
let's go -- we are running two minutes late.
charles, there is someone else coming along too.
you have no right...
and neither do you. it is up to rennie to decide what she wants to do.
she does not know what she wants. she is never had a stable life.
and she sure does not have one now, either. she needs to live.
I am her legal guardian, not you or anybody else, and i alone know what is best for her. end of discussion.
no, i think it is just the beginning.
rennie...
hi, sean.
i heard you were not coming.
we changed our minds.
i got you a present.
but i did not get you one...
forget it. it is a dumb little thing anyway.
i thought maybe we could hike to the top of the statue when we got there, if you felt like it. it is supposed to be 22 stories tall.
I would love to.
you are making a big mistake, rennie. it is not too late to put you back on land.
I am staying.
if miss van deusen knew how afraid you were of...
she did not push me into coming.
why are you doing this to yourself?
i do not even know why I am afraid, uncle charles. i can not even remember when it started. do not you think it is time i found out and got over it?
facing your fear does not always conquer it.
I am staying.
he is undefeated, you know that?  julius is the only senior I would even consider doing it with. if he was not black, that is.
my parents are open minded about that sort of thing.
my stepmom could not care less, but daddy would have a shit fit.  he might even pay some attention to me.
i think it is time for some recreational activity, girl.
sounds good. i hear there is a shuffleboard court on deck -- it might be kinds cool...
you are joking, right?
no thanks.
what? do not be a lightweight...this is top dollar toot.
it is not that, it is just that...  it i get caught, I will lose my science scholarship and everything.
you are talking to the prom queen, eva. do you really think I am going to risk getting caught?
i guess not.
do you realize how many people would kill to be sitting here right now? come on, it is grad night. you have got your whole life to be uptight.
a real space cadet. i wonder if she will narc on us...
i have her in creative writing and she is fairly nice.
nobody related to mcculloch can be nice.
what are you doing in here?
nothing.
i'11 be coming around your stateroom in exactly fifteen minutes, miss mason. you would better have your biology project ready or I am phoning your parents.
they are out of town.
then I will make sure you remain on board while your classmates see the sights.
what are you going to do?
relax, I have got mcculloch covered... but that little narcing bitch niece of his is a different matter.  rumor has it she is a teensy bit afraid of the water...
rennie -- i was just on my way over to your room
have you seen my dog anywhere?
no, but I am sure toby's fine. the ship's only so big and there is certainly no way off it, is there?
so, are you having fun yet?
yeah...a lot.
i seem to detect a hint of ingenuousness in your tone.  in other words, level with me.
there is something i have not told you...
that was truly excellent.
yeah.
time to check out the waiters.
i think I will pass. see you later, okay?
but...wait a minute!
i can not swim.
i gathered that.
i had a skiing accident in high school, broke my left leg. it took three winters before i would even look at the snow again...but the solution kept eluding me.  i finally took lessons. I have never broken a bone since.
it is not that simple.
maybe not. but you are not telling me everything, are you?
whenever i get near the water, i see this young boy drowning. he tries to pull me down with him.
when did this start?
about four years ago...at crystal lake. i spent a few summers there with uncle charles inbetween boarding school.
after your parents passed away?
did you have an accident in the lake?
no. it was just a normal summer. I have never been able to figure it out.
only one young boy ever drowned in that lake, and that was before you were even born. his name was jason voorhees.
she is fine, charles. take it easy...
oh, i can see that. you have done a wonderful job of supervising the kids, miss van deusen.
where did you get that alcohol?
i packed it. just for us.
that is it. you are not setting foot off this ship until we return home.
but i have not even shown you my biology project...
it is okay...you're going to be okay.
i want to go home. i want off this ship.
can he really take us home?
not completing a voyage is against everything he stands for. but i think i can convince him to call a coast guard cutter for you.
what about you?
if i go with you, he will never speak to me again.  but I am never going to live up to his expectations anyway...so maybe it is the right thing to do.
i thought i told you to stay away from her.
where is she?
i do not know...we've gone off course or something...
what do you mean???
i think so. but we have to lower the anchors so we do not drift any further...
where are they?
the bow...front of the ship. there is a hoist on each side that lowers them
i did not mean for you to go!
just radio for help, okay???
the captain and chief engineer... they have been...they're dead.
what is your location?
i...i do not know...
is your ship equipped with omega satellite navigation or loran?
yes...
the loran has a digital printout of your latitude and longitude. give me the coordinates and we will be there as quick as we can.
I have got the numbers.
give me the degrees first, followed by minutes and sec...
i demand to know what is going on...
oh dear god...
where is the radio?
it's...dead.
what are you doing??
that lunatic has been spouting off about jason since we boarded...  it is no coincidence.
but that does not prove that he is the one!
walking corpses are not real!
christ...where's rennie??
she's...she's dropping the anchors. i thought the coast guard could find us easier if...
what?? you sent her out there with a murderer running around loose??
what is going on? i heard on the p.a. system that...
the captain's been murdered. the buzz is that jason might be on board.
jason...voorhees?
have you seen tamara?
no. and I am not losing any sleep over it.
but she might be in trouble...
so what else is new?  look eva, you are asking the wrong dude to feel sorry for tamara mason. wise up -- it is not hip to be her friend.
i do not care about being hip anymore.
you had me worried to death!
but sean said...
I am the one you should be listening to! do you think dropping an anchor in the middle of a storm makes any sense whatsoever?
can not we at least talk about it?
i refuse to discuss this ridiculous notion that a ghoul is terrorizing this ship.
but what about the drowning boy I have been seeing?
whatever you have been...imagining... has nothing to do with jason voorhees.  i want you to be safe, rennie. that is all i care about.
I am not staying in my room, uncle charles.
this is not a request.
did you find rennie?
she is locked safe in her room, no thanks to either of you.  has he brought it back on course yet?
he is doing the best he can, charles.
he is the son of the captain, for chrissakes. you would think he would be able to operate this thing!
what is that?
the fire alarm...
i doubt very much that one even exists.
what are you talking about?
use some common sense! setting off a fire alarm causes panic...the same kind of panic caused by suggesting jason voorhees is on board.  enough is enough.
rennie...??
the window...
rule one, do not panic. rule two, assess the damage and act accordingly...
is the ship going to sink??
we will be okay. i want you to wait by the lifeboats, just in case.
I am not going near any lifeboat!
but rennie...
I am not!!
what did you do with rennie??
nothing! i went to her cabin and...
she never should have set foot on this ship. this is your fault!
this is jason's fault!
not another word, do you hear me??
dear christ...
we have to get off this ship!!
get in the boat, rennie!
i...i can't...
you can and you will!!
there must be a phone around here somewhere.
a wonderful choice of places to dock a boat, mr. robertson.
everyone split up -- we will cover more ground that way.
i do not think that is such a safe idea
my niece's life hangs in the balance right now!! every second counts.
rennie...what'd they do to you??
drugs...  then jason came. he is here, sean.
jason's here in new york.
do not be ridiculous!
what a beautiful day.
perfect for a swim, is not it?
you have been coming out here every summer for the last three years, young lady, and you still have not learned how.
I will take some lessons this time. i promise.
he never learned how either and he is still at the bottom of this lake.
he is not.
oh, he is indeed. and ready to pull down anybody who falls in and can not swim.
you are telling a lie.
am i? let's find out.
i...i can't...
you can and you will! swim, rennie!
you pushed me...
i was only trying to teach you. but i pulled you out, rennie. i saved your life.
you have to call the police...
please, hurry...
