hot goddamn day!
have not felt it a bit. been inside with the air conditioner blastin' all day long.
not even for lunch?
I am by myself today, ate my lunch outta the microwave.
jesus christ man, that microwave food will kill ya as quick as a bullet. those burritos are only fit for a hippie high on weed. pull me down a bottle of jack daniels. I am gettin' tanked tonight.
whatsamatter?
awww, it is just been a shitass day. every inch of it hot and miserable. first off, nadine at the blue chip got some sorta sick, so that mongoloid boy of hers was workin' the grill. that fuckin' idiot do not know rat shit from rice krispies. i ate breakfast at nine, was pukin' up pigs in a blanket like a sick dog by ten thirty.
is not there a law or something against retards serving food to the public?
well, if there am not there sure oughta be. who knows what goes on inside mongoloid's mind?
you could sue the shit out of her, ya know. that kid belongs under a circus tent, not flippin' burgers. you could own that fuckin' place.
what the hell would i do with that grease pit? besides, nadine's got enough of a cross to bear just taking care of that potato head. then all this abilene shit happened. you heard about that bank robbery in abilene, did not ya?
that is all that is been on the box all day. they killed some people did not they?
four rangers, three cops, and two civilians. and they took a lady bank teller as a hostage.
they will probably make a run for the border, which would bring 'em this way. and if we get our hands on those shit asses, we are talking payback time. we will get 'em all right. i got to piss. I am going to use your commode.
knock yourself out.
what do you want from me? i did what you said.
letting him use your toilet? no store does that.
he comes in here every day and we bullshit. he is used my toilet a thousand times. if i told him no, he would know something was up.
i want that son-of-a-bitch out outta here, in his car, and down the road or you can change the name of this place to "benny's world of blood."
were you giving that pig signals?
what? are you kidding? i did not do anything!
he says you were scratching.
i was not scratching!
you callin' him a liar?
yeah, and I am going to be right back at it tomorrow. so tonight I am going to sit in front of the box and just drink booze. how much is the bottle?
six-fifty.
what the fuck was that about?
he signaled the ranger.
what the fuck is wrong with you --
seth, he did it. you were by the beer cooler with your back turned. i was by the magazines, i could see his face.  and i saw him mouth:
start the car.
you believe me do not cha?
shut up and start the car.
richie? you okay?
I am not dead, but I am definitely shot! i told you that bastard said, "help us!"
i never said help us!
well that do not matter now, 'cause you got about two fuckin' seconds to live! richie!
yeah?
when i count three, shoot out the bottles behind him!
gotcha!
one... two... three.
what did i tell you? what did i tell you? buy the road map and leave.
what am i supposed to do, seth? he recognized us.
he did not recognize shit.
we got about two more hours of day light left. that will get us into el paso, which is right next to the border. we will stop at a motel --
stop? we are not going to actually stop at a motel, are we?
why, just look at all this. you got your kitchen --
-- you got your microwave --
-- you got your sink --
-- you got your shower --
-- see this, television!
feel this, real wood paneling. that is real wood, too, not that fake stuff.
unless you two wiseacres wanna be introduced to the joys of hitchhiking, what say we drop this?
the truth hurts.
it is the bitterest of pills.
you two ought to start a stand-up act, because you are just wasting your humor on me.
am not it the truth.
why do you want to stop?
I am exhausted.
lie in the back, dad, I will drive us into mexico.
i just bet you would. do not even think about it. besides, i want to have one night's sleep in an honest- to-goodness bed. the beds in the home are okay, but they are not like a real bed.
hey, if we go to a motel, we can swim.
dad, when i called the machine to check our messages there was one from bethel baptist. mr. franklin said he would not permanently replace you until we came back. he said when we come home, if you still feel the same way --
that is very nice of ted, but I will call him tomorrow and tell him not to bother waiting.
i did not want to talk about this in front of scott because he gets upset. but you do not believe in god anymore?
not enough to be a pastor. look, i know this is hard on you kids. after jenny's death, this is probably the last thing you need. but i can not do it any longer. my congregation needs spiritual leadership. well, they can not get that from me anymore. my faith is gone. to answer your question, yes, i do believe in jesus. but do i love them? no. after jenny died, i just thought, what is the point?
it is just, all our lives you have been a pastor. for twenty years you have preached trust in the lord. and then one day you wake up and say fuck him?
i did not say fuck him. I am just not connected anymore.
that happens, you will get it back.
kate, give your old man a little credit. every person who chooses the service of god as their life's work has something in common. i do not care if you are a preacher, a priest, a nun, a rabbi or a buddhist monk. many, many times during your life you will look at your reflection in the mirror and ask yourself, am i a fool? we have all done it. I am not going through a lapse. what I have experienced is closer to awakening. I am not trying to shake your faith. I have just decided not to devote my life to god anymore.
what do you think mom would say?
mom's got nothing to say, she is dead.
do they have cable?
no.
do they have an x-rated channel?
no.
do they have a waterbed?
they do not have anything except four walls and a roof, and that is all we need.
how is it feel?
how ya think, it hurts like a son-of- a-bitch.
i got both rooms on either side of us, so we do not got to worry about eavesdropping assholes. how is that feel? you okay?
feels good.
I am going to go get the money.
hey, when you talk to him, see if you can arrange a better deal than thirty percent.
that is their standard deal, brother. they am not about to change it for us.
did you even to try to negotiate?
these guys am not spic firecracker salesman from tijuana. they do not even know the meaning of the word "barter".  you wanna stay in el ray? you give them thirty percent of your loot. it is scripture. so it is written, so shall it be done. you want sanctuary, you pay the price, and the price is thirty percent.
all I am saying --
-- this conversation is over.
for the time being we are very confident we will apprehend the fugitives in the next forty-eight hours. the bureau, local law enforcement and the texas rangers have all joined forces in forming a dragnet to snare seth and richard gecko.
agent chase, does it appear that they are heading for mexico.
yes, it does, kelly. we have already alerted the mexican authorities. they intend to cooperate every way possible in bringing these fugitives to justice.
are you optimistic about the safety of the hostage they took in abilene, gloria hill?
we have received no news one way or the other. we can only hope for the best.
what about the report from an eyewitness at the liquor store who said one of the brothers was shot?
this can not be confirmed at this time, but we do believe it to be true. we have reason to believe it was the youngest brother richard, and he was shot in the vicinity of his neck and shoulders by the store's clerk.
is it safe to assume that because the death count involved and the loss of life of law enforcement officers, that the bureau, the rangers and the police force are taking this manhunt personally?
i would say that is a very safe assumption.
shit, i started to get worried. where the fuck ya been?
sight seein'.
what did ya see?
cops.
didya look at the border?
yeah, i saw the border. through binoculars from on top of a high building. that is about as close as i risked getting. what is the tv say?
they are going to apprehend us in forty-eight hours.
i got to figure a way to get across that goddamn border. longer we fuck around el paso our lives am not worth a shit.
look, fuck the border. let's just dig in and wait for things to cool down.
richie, it is going to get a lot fuckin' worse before it gets any fuckin' better. we showed our ass in texas. we killed texas fuckin' rangers. they am not going to stop lookin' till they find us, and when they find us, they are going to kill us. texans take it very personal when ya kill their law enforcement officers. the el paso police have already started a motel and hotel search for us.
how do you know?
i heard it on the radio. we gotta get our asses into mexico tonight. carlos is gonna meet us tomorrow morning at a rendezvous on the other side, then carlos and his boys will escort us to el ray and --
where is the woman?
what?
what did ya mean, what? the fuckin' woman, the hostage. where the fuck is she, richard!?
she is in the other room.
what the fuck is she doin' there?!
yeah, explain it to me. i need an explanation. what is the matter with you?
there is nothing wrong with me, brother. that woman tried to escape and i did what i had to do.
no.  that woman would not of said shit if she had a mouthful.
wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong! once you left, she became a whole different person.
is it me? is it my fault?
it is not your fault, it is her fault!
is this my fault? do you think this is what i am?
what?
this is not me! i am a professional fucking thief. i steal money. you try to stop me, god help you. but i do not kill people i do not have to, and i do not rape women. what you doin' am not how it is done. do you understand?
seth, if you were me --
just say yes! nothing else, just say yes.
yes.
yes, seth, i understand.
yes, seth, i understand.
there is nothing wrong with this place.
it is a flop house.
it is not a flop house. it is basic and simple. that does not make it a flop house.
if it does not have a pool, we are looking for a new place.
it has a bed. that is all i care about.
other places have beds, they also have cable tv, a gym, room service...
what is this guy's problem?
i have no idea.
creepy guy.
the sword of damocles is lifted from above seth's head. he is just solved a problem that a mere thirty seconds ago seemed unsolvable. he knows exactly how he is going to cross the border. whistling a happy tune, he turns and walks back into room #9.
what is your name?
jacob.
okay, jacob, get up and sit your ass down on the bed. make a wrong move and I will shoot you in the face.
what is the story with you two? you a couple of fags?
he is my son.
how does that happen? you do not look japanese.
neither does he. he looks vietnamese.
oh, well, excuse me all to hell.
what is this about, money?
it is about money, all right, but not yours. you see, me and my brother here are in a little hot water and we need your assistance.
what is going on?
we are having a wet bikini contest, and you just won.
it is okay, honey. everything's going to be all right.
just listen to daddy, sugar, and do not do nothin' stupid.  you two, simon says sit the fuck down!
where are the keys to the motor home?
on the dresser.
richie, take the keys. start that big bastard up, and drive it up front.
richie, will you do me a favor and eat my pussy?
sure.
you got three minutes. one second longer, i shoot your father in the face. do you understand what i just said?
yes.
do you believe me?
yes.
you damn well better. go.
not a chance.
come again?
if you are taking people, take me. but my kids are not going anywhere with you.
sorry, i need everybody.
my children are not going with you, and that is that.
that is not fuckin' that...  this is fuckin' this.  go sit over there.
yes.
good.  your old man's all right, he just saved your life.
what?
where are you taking us?
mexico.
what is in mexico?
mexicans.
jacob fuller. jacob, that is biblical, am not it? what am i askin' for, of course it is.  what are their names?
scott and kate.
who is this?
my wife.
where is the little lady?
in heaven.
she is dead?
yes, she is.
how did she die?
auto wreck.
come on, gimme some more details. how did it happen? some fuckin' drunk kill her?
no. it was a rainy night, the brakes on the car were not great. she had to stop suddenly. she slid on the road, she crashed, she died.
died instantly?
not quite. she was trapped in the wreck for about six hours before she passed on.
whewww! those acts of god really stick it in and break it off, do not they?
yes, they do.
is this real?
yes.
I have seen one of these before. a friend of mine had himself declared a minister of his own religion. away to fuck the irs. is that what you are doing, or are you the real mccoy?
real mccoy.
you are a preacher?
i was a minister.
was? as in not anymore?
yes.
why did ya quit?
i think I have gotten about as up close and personal with you as I am going to get. now if you need me like i think you need me, you are not going to kill me 'cause i will not answer your stupid, prying questions. so, with all due respect, mind your own business.
i seem to have touched a nerve. do not be so sensitive, pops, let's keep this friendly. but you are right, enough with the getting to know you shit.  now, there is two ways we can play this hand. one way is me and you go round an' round all fuckin' night. the other way, is we reach some sort of an understanding. now, if we go down that first path at the end of the day, I will win. but we go down the second, we will both win. now, i do not give a rat's ass about you or your fuckin' family. you all can live forever or die this second and i do not care which. the only things i do care about are me that son-of-a-bitch in the back, and our money. and right now i need to get those three things into mexico. now, stop me if I am wrong, but i take it you do not give a shit about seeing me and my brother receiving justice, or the bank getting its money back. right now all you care about is the safety of your daughter, your son and possibly yourself. am i correct?
yes.
i thought so. you help us get across the border without incident, stay with us the rest of the night without trying anything funny, and in the morning we will let you and your family go. that way everybody gets what they want. you and your kids get out of this alive and we get into mexico. everybody's happy.
how do i know you will keep your word?
jesus christ, pops, do not start with this shit.
you want me to sit here and be passive. the only way being passive in this situation makes sense is if i believe you will let us go. I am not there yet. you have to convince me you are telling the truth.
look, dickhead, the only thing you need to be convinced about is that you are stuck in a situation with a coupla real mean motor scooters. i do not wanna hafta worry about you all fuckin' night. and i do not think you wanna be worrying about my brother's intentions toward your daughter all night. you notice the way he looked at her, did not ya?
yes.
did not like it, did ya?
no, i didn't.
did not think so. so, as i was saying, I am willing to make a deal. you behave, get us into mexico, and do not try to escape. I will keep my brother off your daughter and let you all loose in the morning.
you will not let him touch her?
i can handle richie, do not worry.
if he touches her, I will kill him. i do not give a fuck how many guns you have, nothing will stop me from killing him.
fair enough. you break your word, I will kill all of you.  kate, honey!
yeah.
you must have a bible in here, do not cha?
yeah, we got a bible.
get it and bring it up here, will ya, please?
swear to god, on the bible, you will not try to escape and you will get us across the border.
i swear to god i will not try to escape and I will do my best to get you into mexico.
you best better get it done, pops.
what?
in the room. were you serious, or were you just foolin' around? I am just bringing it up, 'cause if you really want me to do that for you, i will.
do what?
what you said to me in the room.
what did i say?
you asked me if i would --
richard!
what?
I am telling you, do not hurt her.
as long as you are cool, she will be cool. what are ya going to say?
i do not have the slightest idea.
well, you just keep thinkin' of that gun next to kate's temple.
what are you gonna do?
I am going to try and get us across the border.
no, dad, you got to tell 'em that they are back there.
this is not going to work.
shut up. it is going to work just fine,
i just want to go on record as saying this is a bad idea.
duly noted. now, shut up.
they are going to search the van.
as long as you do not act like a fuckin' nut, we will be just fine.
what does that mean?
what?
you just called me a fuckin' nut.
no, i didn't.
yes, you did. you said as long as i do not act like a fuckin' nut, implying that I have been acting like a fuckin' nut.
take a pill, kid. i just meant stay cool.
you meant that, but you meant the other, too.
this am not the time, richard.
fuck those spic pigs! you called me a fuckin' nut, and where i come from, that stops the train on its tracks.
keep your voice down.
or what?
have you forgotten about your sister?
they are going to kill us. they get us across the border, they are going to take us out in the desert and shoot us.
if they get over the border, they are going to let us go.
dad, i watch those reality shows. they never let anybody go. any cop will tell you, in a situation like this, you get a chance, you go for it. this is our chance.
what about kate?
they are going to kill her anyway. at least now with all these cops we have got a fighting chance.
son, i have this situation under control. i know exactly what I am doing. you are going to have to trust me on this.
if trusting you means trusting those fuckin' killers, i can not do that. if you do not tell the cops, i will.
now, you listen to me. you am not going to do a goddamn fucking thing, you hear me! nobody cares what you think, I am running this show, i make the decisions.
he is running the show.
I am running the show. i make the plays, and you back the plays i make. stop thinking with your fucking balls. kate in a room with a couple of desperate men with nothing to fucking lose am not the time to "go for it." i need your cover. cover my ass.
how many with you?
just my son and i.
what is your purpose in mexico?
vacation. I am taking him to see his first bullfight.
I am curious. what was the nuttiest thing i did?
this am not the time.
oh, i know, was it possibly when your ass was rotting in jail and i broke it out? yeah, you are right, that was pretty fuckin' nutty. not to mention stupid. but you know what? i can fix that right now.
what was that?
oh, that is just my daughter in the bathroom.
you said it was just you and your son.
i meant me, my son and my daughter.
open the door. I am coming aboard.
we did our part, we gotcha in mexico. now it is time for your part, letting us go.
pops, when you are right, you are right, and you are right.
you are going to let us go?
in the morning, darlin', in the morning, we are g-o-n-e and you are f-r-e-e. now, i know i put you guys through hell, and i know I have been one rough pecker, but from here on end you guys are in my cool book. scotty, help me pick richie up, and lay him down. jacob, keep going on this road till you get to a sign that says, "digayo." when you get to digayo, turn this big bastard left, go on down for a few miles, then you see a bar called "the titty twister." from what i hear, you can not miss it.
then?
then stop, 'cause that is where we are going.
you okay?
yeah, i think so. what happened?
i do not know, you just passed out.
i did?
yeah, we were just standing there. you said something about your shoulder hurting, then you just hit the ground like a sack of potatoes.
really?
yeah, when you fell your head smacked the toilet hard. it scared the shit outta me. sure you are okay?
yeah, i guess. I am just a little fucked up.
well, let me tell ya something, gonna clear your head right up. we are officially mexicans.
what?
we are...  "south of the border down mexico way."
we are?
yep. we are heading for the rendezvous right now. we get there, we pound booze till carlos shows up, he escorts us to el ray. and then me and you, brother, kick fuckin' back. how ya like them apples?
far out.  where are my glasses?
they broke when you fell.
oh, fuck, seth, that is my only pair!
do not worry about it, we will get you some glasses.
what dya mean, do not worry about it. of course I am going to worry about it, i can not fuckin' see.
when we get to el ray, I will take care of it.
yeah, like a mexican hole-in-the- wall's going to have my fuckin' prescription.
it is not a big deal, unless you make it a big deal. now, I am real happy, richie, stop bringing me down with bullshit.
out of the stew pot and into the fire.
shit, i been to bars make this place look like a fuckin' 4-h club.
that is what you think?
that is how you are lookin', richie.
I am lookin' scared?
that is what you look like.
you know what you look like?
no, richie, what do i look like?
you are lookin' green.
how?
where are you right now?
what do you mean?
where are you?
I am here with you.
no, you are not. you are sippin' margaritas in el ray. but we are not in el ray. we are here -- getting ready to go in there. you are so pleased with yourself about getting into mexico, you think the job's down. it ain't. get back on the clock. that is a fuck-with-you-bar. we hang around there for a coupla hours, in all likelihood, we will get fucked with. so get your shit together, brother.
my shit is together.
it do not look together.
well, it is. just because I am happy does not mean I am on vacation. you are just not used to seein' me happy, 'cause it is been about fifteen fuckin' years since i been happy. but my shit is forever together.
whiskey!
you can not come in here.
what dya mean?
this is a private club. you are not welcome.
are you tellin' me I am not good enough to drink here?
this bar is for bikers and truckers only.  you, get out!
best in mexico.
i kinda doubt that. we are grabbin' a table, send over a waitress to take our order.
who else?
pass.
why not, against your religion?
no, i do drink, I am just not drinking now.
suit yourself, more for me.  scotty?
how 'bout you?  you are safer in here with us than wandering around a mexican border town all night long. just do not do nothin' stupid and we will all get along fine.  scotty, you sure you do not want a drink?
okay, I will have one.
how about you, cutie pie? ready for round two?
okay.
why are you so agitated?
I am still stewing about that ape laying hands on me. and that fuckin' bartender sticks a weed up my ass, too.
he backed down.
he is smilin' at us. but behind his smile, he is sayin', "fuck you jack." i hear that loud and clear.
what are you going to do?
I am going to just sit here and drain this bottle. and when I have drunk the last drop, if i still feel then, the way i feel now, I am going to take this bottle and break it over his melon head.
before we stepped in here, you told all of us to be cool. that means you, too.
i never said do what i do, i said do what i say.
are you so much a fucking loser, you can not tell when you have won?
what did you call me?
nothing. i did not make a statement. i asked a question. would you like me to ask it again? very well. are you such a loser you can not tell when you have won?  the entire state of texas, along with the fbi, is looking for you. did they find you? no. they couldn't. they had every entrance to the border covered. there is no way you could get across. did you? yes, you did. you have won, seth, enjoy it.
to your family.
to yours.
now, is your shit together?
forever together.
in that camper out there i saw a guitar. i take it that is yours.
yeah, it is mine.
go out and bring it in. i feel a song coming on.
earth to richie. do not you wanna ask your new friend to join us?
yeah.
well, then ask her, dumb ass.
por favor, senorita. would you care to join us?
how are you?
scarred for life, that is how i am!
are you okay?
peachy! why should not i be? the world's my oyster, except for the fact that i just rammed a wooden stake in my brother's heart because he turned into a vampire, even though i do not believe in vampires. aside from that unfortunate business, everything's hunky-dory.
I am really sorry.
bullshit! you hate us. if you had half a chance you would feed us to them!
okay, does anybody here know what is going on?
yeah, i know what is going on. we got a bunch of fuckin' vampires outside trying to get inside and suck our fuckin' blood! that is it, plain and simple. and i do not wanna hear any bullshit about "i do not believe in vampires" because i do not fuckin' believe in vampires either. but i do believe in my own two fuckin' eyes, and with my two eyes i saw fuckin' vampires! now, does everybody agree we are dealin' with vampires.
you too, preacher?
I am like you. i do not believe in vampires, but i believe in what i saw.
good for you. now, since we all believe we are dealing with vampires, what do we know about vampires? crosses hurt vampires. do you have a cross?
in the winnebago.
in other words, no.
i do not know about that. in order for it to have any power, i think it is got to be an official crucifix.
what is an official cross? some piece of tin made in taiwan? what makes that official? if a cross works against vampires, it is not the cross itself, it is what the cross represents. the cross is a symbol of holiness.
okay, I will buy that. so we got crosses covered, moving right along, what else?
about two hours from now.
so all we have to do is get by for a few more hours and then we can walk right out the front door.
you could take their head off.
actually, our best weapon against these satanic cocksuckers is this man.  he is a preacher.
we have to go back for daddy!
daddy's dead.
noooo!
he is right, kate. daddy's dead! he was too far away. if flinging that door and filling this room with those bat-things would save him, I would fling it. the only thing it will do is turn us into one of them.
he needs our help!
he is beyond our help. you saw him get bit. i saw him get bit. we all saw it. you can not help him. I have got no one left to lose but you. i can not be alone again. we are sticking together.
did he...?
yep.
you all are going to fuckin' die! I am going to fuckin' kill every last one of you godless pieces of shit!
you bet your sweet ass you are, and I am going to help you do it. but we am not got much time.
you are going to be okay, are not you, daddy?
no, I am not. I have been bit. in effect, I am already dead.
what is this stuff?
my guess is that this little dive's been feeding on nomad road waifs like bikers and truckers for a longtime. this is probably some of the shipments they stole off the trucks.
well, i say lets tear this place apart for weapons. so when they burst through that door, we will make 'em wish they never did.
i do not give a shit about living or dying anymore. i just want to send as many of these devils back to hell as i can.
amen.
i promise.
kate, scott?
i promise.
scott?
kate, we do not have all day, so I am only going to count to five. one...two... three... four...
okay, okay, i promise I will do it!
not good enough, swear to god.
i swear to god, our father, that when you change into one of the undead, i will kill you.
good girl. now, scott, we have even less time, so I am only giving you the count of three. one...
you do not believe in suicide.
it is not suicide if you are already dead. two...
okay, I will kill you when you change, i swear to god in jesus christ's name.
thank you, son.
why did they block the door again?
to keep the daylight out! this is where they sleep! get to the door!
I am going for 'em!
no!
everybody goes home!
watch my back!
anytime.
how many bullets left, kid?
not many.
well, when you run out of weapons, just start cold cocking 'em. make 'em sing for their supper.
should i use the last bullets on us?
you use 'em on the first couple of these parasites that try to bite you.
whatsamatter with you? are you crazy?
why the fuck, outta all the god forsaken shit holes in mexico, did you have us rendezvous at that place?
i do not know, one place's as good as another.
have you ever been there before?
no, but i passed by it a couple of times. it is out in the middle of nowhere. it seems like a rowdy place, so there would not be a lot of police. and it is open from dusk till dawn. you said meet you in the morning.
well, because you picked that place out of a hat, my brother's dead now. and this girl's family's dead.
I am sorry to hear that. what were they, psychos?
did they look like psychos? they were fuckin' vampires. psychos do not explode when sunlight hits 'em, i do not care how crazy they are.
oh, seth, how can i ever make it up to you?
you can't, but fifteen percent instead of thirty for my stay at el ray is a good start.
twenty-eight.
jesus christ, carlos, my brother's dead and he is not coming back, and it is all your fault. twenty.
you like the car?
i said new, this is an '90.
it is hardly been used at all. i got it from a drug dealer who only drove it 5 times in as many years. swear to god. that is like new.
so do i just follow you?
yeah, follow us.
so let's do it.
vamanos!
I am sorry.
me too.
see ya.
later.
