... last few years have brought many advances in the interests of women in naval service, particularly in the land-based maritime specialties. what is more, the navy has instituted special sensitivity courses with an eye on --
whoa, whoa, whoa.  "land-based maritime specialties." gimme a second here to de-euphemize that...
hardly the case, senator.
well, I am just an old dame without much time left, so you will pardon me if i jump right in here before they discontinue my blood-type.  i am deeply concerned over the navy's seemingly incontrovertible attitude toward women in the military.  case in point...
"the lark report."
madam senator... this is an internal document of the u.s. navy.  i must seriously question whether --
the navy's conclusion regarding the crash of an f-14 aboard an aircraft carrier.  female aviator, it just so happens.  you are familiar with this report and its conclusion, am i right?
i was one member of the investigating commission.
yes, i see your signature right here -- twice the size of everyone else's.  and your conclusion was "pilot error," hmm?
I am really not prepared for any kind of in-depth review of --
I would like to think our next secretary of the navy would be prepared for anything, mr. hayes.
the commission concluded that the aviator in question failed to execute a proper approach to the carrier.
that aside for the moment, I am struck by the tenor, the ill-spirit of your report... the degrading remarks by other aviators... innuendo about her performance in unrelated situations... even a reference to her sexual activity the weekend prior.  in my seven years on this committee, I have never seen a downed aviator treated like this.  never.  I am deeply disturbed by this report, mr. hayes.  not just what it bodes for women in the military -- but for your own confirmation as well.
white house boys want a private meeting.
I will act surprised.
so she picks the women, we pick the programs.  seals?
I would go special reconnaissance. every bit as tough -- and we have a 60 percent drop-out rate among the men.
then i suggest we start there.
does not matter who she picks.  no woman is going to last one week in a commando training course.  and i do not care who it is.
lieutenant o'neil.
gotta situation here.  where are you?  stuck in traffic?
not due in for 22 minutes, sir. watcha got?
do we know it is him using the beacon?  not a decoy?
signals received only sparingly, in such a pattern that leads us to conclude it is a downed aviator trying to conserve his batteries.
chances of recovery?
you are the analyst for east china, o'neil.  analyze.
north korean beaches are the best protected, most heavily monitored in the world.  the civilian population is so propagandized that it acts as an early warning system.  extraction team has to be small and silent -- I would go with seals over delta force. problem is, do not want to hold a conventional sub off-shore for target practice.  where is the polk?
halfway 'round the world.  so that is the problem -- we can get the team in, just not out.
unless you whiskey run.
blank faces here, o'neil.
quick-hit technique used by capone. rigged a getaway car with running boards and handles.  all his guys had to do was jump on and take a ride.  check the files -- dprk-57 -- i doped it out as a contingency plan:  seal team infiltrates, picks up the package, links up with recovery sub.  but do not waste time opening and closing hatches.  they just grab the periscope and hang on for neutral waters.
you expect the extraction team to ride the sub bare-back?  is that correct, o'neil?
only four minutes to neutral waters, sir.  why not?
that was good headwork, lieutenant.
thank you, sir.  we hear back from the pentagon?
probably hear back from cnn first.
hate this part.  just sweating it out on the sidelines.
intel has its own glory, lieutenant -- no matter how subtle.
by the way, I will need that option paper by 11-hundred today so i can review it with admiral hanover.  and do we have any of that breakfast tea around here?
is this my glory, sir?
so everyone i talk to says you are top drawer with silk stockings inside.
thank you, ma'am.  um, may i ask what this is regarding?
high-school pentathlete... rotc scholarship, graduated with honors... top marks in basic training... and, as it just so happens, a constituent of my home state of virginia.  oh, the things I will do for one extra vote.
"coronado."
california.
i know that, sir.  ma'am.  it is just that... beggin' your pardon, senator, but... do you understand that this involves combat training?
this is just a test case, o'neil. but if it works out -- if you work out -- it could well change the navy's official policy on women in combat.  or, actually, its official non-policy.  now who is your immediate superior there?
captain dwyer.  technically.
my office will fill him in and help expedite.  look forward to meeting you at the proper time.  jumping off now...
uh, question, ma'am.
yes, dear.
would i be the only one?  the only woman?
there'll be more to follow -- but yes, dear, right now you are the pick of a very large litter.  and your success would mean a lot.  jumping, now...
so why are you even considering it? are you?
just like you would be.
spec-recon.  those guys are world- class warriors.  and they will not want you there, jordan.
i take it you do not either.  feet.
well, you are doin' shit-hot at intel.
royce.  we are the same age, we started the same time -- and now you are sitting in the upperdecks while I am still down in the bullpen. what does that tell you about the navy?
she is haze grey and underway...
you need operational duty to really advance... you need combat training to go operational... yet combat training is off-limits to people with tits.  I am topped out at intel. forget the glass ceiling -- I am beating my head on a big brass ceiling.
so dump on me.
this has nothing to do with you.
well, guess i do not even need to be here...
get your dick back here.  it has everything to do with you.
you are such a ball-breaker sometimes.  especially at night.
sorry.  but after our days...  so if i try this thing... if i ship out to coronado... what happens here?
I will try to keep the door open.  if you wash out, i make it so that --
wai', wait.  what happens if it works?  four months of training, three years of operational duty. what then?
i do not feel like doing an option paper on the rest of my life, jordan.  maybe we should just let it happen.
which is guy-speak for...
sounded lame as soon as it came out of my mouth.  but I am trying to be honest, okay?  three years is a long time.  do not ask me to predict how I will feel then, jordan, because i do not know.  and either do you.
you know, right up until you said that -- i thought i did know.
jordan...
thank you, royce.  it was shaping up like such a tough call -- and then you go and make it so goddamn easy. really, thank you so much.
b.o.q., south side.  take a starboard tack out the door.
thank you, ensign.
no problem, lieutenant.
yes, of course.  please, have a seat, lieutenant...
thank you, sir.
would you care for a beverage?  tea?
I am fine, sir.
so.  we are still coming to terms with the exact protocol for this -- for integrating the spec-recon training.  it may not always be smooth, but we are trying to make it as painless as possible for you.
thank you, sir.  but i expect a certain amount of pain.
barber was my next stop, sir. would have had it regulation sooner, only --
do not worry about it.  if it is off your collar and out of your eyes, that is all I am going to ask.
really, i have no problem with --
I am not out to change your sex, lieutenant.  you will have separate beds, separate heads.  if you have specific medical needs, inform the infirmary.  if a classmate or superior acts in an harassing or otherwise unbecoming manner, please inform me immediately so i can deal with it immediately.  questions?
none at this time, sir.
then that is all i have to say. dismissed.
sir, i just want you to know... I am not here to make a statement.  i do not want to make men look foolish. all i care about is completing the training and getting operational experience -- just like everyone else, i suspect.
if you were like everyone else, lieutenant, i suspect we would not be making statements about not making statements, would we?  take your leave.
we are fucked.
darth vader reads poetry...
we are so fucked.
thank you, sir.  but i like these just fine.
not doin' them very fine, o'neil.
I will try anyway, sir.
you will try what we tell you to try, o'neil.  go regulation.
they are more afraid of you.
well, now i feel so much better.
it was made clear before you came -- harassment equals career suicide. can not say anything good, so they do not say much at all.  to your face, anyway.
whose orders were those?
it was made clear.  anyway, stay ballsy.  first week's hell, then it levels out.  until s.e.r.e. training, anyway.  that is hell-and-a-half.
and how do you know that?
made it to week 10 last time.
i did not know they let you try again.  especially at your age.
you are kind of a surprise yourself.
aw, what is this...
sir...
do not have to use it, o'neil, but it is got to go out.  five... four... three...
i can make this wall without --
... two... one... mark!
say again, sir?
you heard me.  move on.
chief, sir, i do not understand why --
educate her, pyro.
automatic five-second deduction, which slips you under the wire. it is called "gender-norming," o'neil -- standard procedure for all females in physical training courses.  where you been the last few years?
what "all females"?  if I am the only --
can not live with them, can not kill them.  what is the point?
somebody throw a tent over this circus.
pardon the hour, sir.  but you told me to come to you immediately if i felt i was being mistreated in any way.
did not take long.
all right, lieutenant, give me a name and specifics, I will have the x.o. file an action first thing in the morning.  a name?
it is you, sir.  and it started the day i came here.
oh, really.
it is this double-standard, the separate quarters, the deferential treatment.  it is how you pulled out my chair and nearly served high tea the first time we met.
because i was civil, now you are complaining.
i can not afford civility, sir.  how am i supposed to fit in with these guys when you have got me set up as an outsider?  even if i make it under these rules, i still lose, because there'll always be a flag in my file -- "yeah, she made it, but..."  i mean, really -- why did not you just issue me a goddamn petticoat to wear around the base?
did you just have a brain-fart?
pardon?
did you just barge in here and curse at your base commander?  if so, i regard that as a bonafide brain- fart, and i resent it when people fart inside my home.
i think you have resented me from the start, sir.
what i resent, lieutenant, is some politician using my base as a test tube for her grand social experiment.  what i resent is the sensitivity training that is now mandatory for my men... the day-care center i have to build where an officer's lounge used to be... and the ob/gyn i have to keep on staff just so someone can keep track of your personal pap smears.  but most of all, lieutenant, i resent your perfume, however subtle it may be, competing with the aroma of my fine three-dollar-and-fifty- nine cent cigar, which i will happily put out this very instant if the phallic nature of it happens to offend your goddamn fragile sensibilities.  does it?
no, sir.
no, sir, what?
the shape does not bother me.  it is just that goddamn rotten stench.
well.  'least now we are talking the same language.  so one standard.  is that what you are after?
same rules for everyone, sir.
straight up?
across the board, sir.
and if you just happen to wash out, i will not have to contend with you bitchin' to some hairy-chested female senator?  and please note i did not identify any one in particular.
would not dream of it, sir.
then good night.
so I will get a fair shot?
you will get everything you want, o'neil.  let's see if you want what you are going to get.
well, who the shit you think you are?  comin' in here like that?
your new roommate.
anybody usin' these drawers here?
hey, hey, hey.  no possibility.  you can not stay in here.  you can not sleep right next to me.
funny, the c.o. says i can.
aw, lookit this, lookit this -- she is bringin' tampax in here. c'mon, you got nothin' but rooms over there.
that your desk?  I will take this one.
would you just get outta here?
listen, sex ape.  I am here to stay. and if you do not want me for a roommate or classmate, you got two options -- move out or ring out. end of file.
just do it, okay?
if you can not feel the other guy's pecker, you am not in tight enough! i want nuts to butts!
come on, montgomery...
flea!  o'neil!  why is there a break in that line?
montgomery, why do they call you "flea"?
it is really "f. lee montgomery" -- but that gets whittled down to just "flea."  for short, ma'am.
so it really has nothing to do with actual brain size?
no, ma'am.
well, flea, i appreciate the respect you just showed me.  but i do not need it and do not want it -- not that kind of respect, anyway.  it is just going to hurt us both, okay?
I will work on it, ma'am.
do that.
time.
check your watch, pyro.  seems fast.
hey.  you okay, flea?
'snot me.  it is him.
what are you guys doing?  huh?
just askin'
what, you going to give it all up for a maple twist?  how dumb you got to be? that is exactly what they --
hey.  way to gut it out.
thanks, wick.
miller.  thought the guy was made of depleted uranium.  really did not expect to lose him.
every class has its surprises, pyro. this one'll be no different.
commander, are you of the habit of letting photographers traipse around your base snappin' their fill? these were supposed to have been discreet test cases --
senator, they stand out on the public highway with telephoto lenses --
-- and now i got reporters from toadsquat, iowa, calling my office and askin' what i know about this "g.i. jane" thing.
-- nothing i can do about it unless you are suggesting i infringe on their civil liberties -- which I would happily do if you will just trim a little fat off the constitution.
are you truly mouthin' off to a senior member of the senate arms committee?  i mean, I will give you points for style -- just nothin' for smarts.
see me, sir?
you makin' friends with the press, lieutenant?
well, seein's how this thing is out, you let me handle the r.p.m.  from this point forward, i want all press matters coordinated via my office. I will be god-damned if I am going to watch hayes pull flowers out of his ass and take credit for this one. him or the president.  this my shade?  "midnight mahogany"? 'cuz I am comin' dangerously close to lookin' like ronald reagan here.
your prerogative, senator.
awright.  how is our girl doin', anyway?
standing right here in my office.
jordan, dear.  how are they treating you?
can not complain, ma'am.
hmmm.  maybe I will ask when i see you in person.
uh, ma'am.
going to be visiting that all-woman's america's cup team in a few weeks -- if i were a gambler, I would say dennis o'conner's days are numbered.  but they are in san diego, so i thought I would take a quick promenade of the base.
uh, v.i.p. security arrangements generally take some time, senator.
"security"?  what the hell you talkin' about?  your base is not secure?
of course, but there is more --
then set out the good plates, we will all have lunch.  my office will follow up with details.  jumping off, now...
sir, i want you to know that i had nothing to do with any of this.  not this article, not --
"we'll all have lunch."  good idea. oh, and let's be sure to invite this sociologist, too -- just in case we want to have a fucking bridge game afterwards!
permission to leave, sir?
permission to evaporate, o'neil.
think i overplayed it?
congress and the pentagon share a lot of plumbing.  they will never know whose leak it is.
boat five -- wickwire, cozad, vinyl, intagliata, ayers, and wise. lieutenant wickwire is your senior officer.  follow his orders to your death.
get it up!
ah, c'mon...
motherachrist...
fine by me, sir!
no problem, sir!
permission to get dressed, sir?
it seems the men could not get used to the sight of women blown open and their viscera hanging from tree limbs.  israeli men would linger over wounded females -- often to the detriment of the mission, often endangering their own lives.  they do not use women anymore.
sir, someone mentioned you received the navy cross.  may i ask what you got it for?
for pulling a 210-pound man out of a burning barrack in saudi arabia.
i see.  so when a man tries to rescue another man, he is a hero. but when he tries to rescue a woman, he is gone soft.
could you have pulled that 210-pound man clear, lieutenant?
females in combat situations impact unit cohesion.  men fight better without women around.  and that is an historical fact.
it also seems like a problem with the men's attitude, sir.  so maybe you should be sniffing around their shower room instead.
england went out with a stress fracture.  that puts you in charge, lieutenant.
mccool's that same rank.  we are both j.g.'s.
you were commissioned one month earlier, which makes you the senior officer.  remember.  there are no bad crews -- only bad leaders.
they take you away to san clemente island.  half the guys quit when they come back.  supposed to be just hell-and-a-half.
that is what i hear.
can i ask you somethin', lieutenant? how come you are doing this?  i mean, we are kinda curious.
who is "we"?
just some of the women.
i do not know if there is any single reason.  but my father was navy. and he had this old-time recruiting poster in his den.  it showed a girl trying on a sailor's uniform while saying, "gee, i wish i were a man! I would join the navy!"  was maybe 10 years old when i first saw it, and even then it felt wrong.  made me mad.  and i do not think a month has gone by that i have not thought about that poster.  "gee, i wish i were a man."
I have been accused of that wish.
the woman i saw you with...
just a friend.  we have friends, too, you know.
but are there... i mean, how many...
more than you would guess.  it is just that we do not hold coffee klatches. if more then three of us get together at any one time, the guys think it is some kind of uprising.
I have been trying you for five days. do not they give you messages?
it is hard to find time to sleep, royce.  much less keep up with my phone life.
how hard they making it on you?
that bad?
i feel like there is men here, there is women here -- then there is men.  but hey, what did i expect?
well, not this.  i was doing the pentagon scene few nights ago.  got some fresh stuff -- about you.  you may be in a hostile camp.  i think someone may be taking steps to ensure that you crash and burn.
me?  why me?
do not you know?  how they are talking about you?
i saw an article...
i can not walk two blocks in washington without hearing about "g.i. jane."  you are all over the place, and whether you wanted it or not, the feminists are sizing you up for that poster.
so why are you telling me this?
big symbols make big targets, jordan.  i think someone is gunning for you.
you know, royce, i got enough heat on me without you turning up the jets, too.
I am only trying to warn you in case --
well, let me warm you:  I am going though with this.  the more everybody fucks with me, fucks with my head, the more it just makes me want to finish.  so do not expect me back crying in your arms any time soon, okay?
that is not what i want, jordan.  i mean... it is and it isn't...
still can not make up your mind, huh? got to go, royce.
jordan.  you watch your ass.
sure.  I will join the crowd.
newberry, get a photo.  south?
entering my scan now...
west?
clear.
north?
you mind?  I am trying to eat here.
so am i.
she part of the training?
i do not know...
shit.  think we are had.
smoke her.
i am not going to shoot her.
only blanks.  lemme do it.
hey.  am not your call, man.
if not, firing will only give away our position to hostiles in the area.  now how smart is that?
mighta been civilian.
banditos on the east perimeter!  150 yards!  shit, she was part of it!
fuck me.
all right, fire-and-evade maneuvers. drop everything but weapons and the prc radio -- we are going to be high speed, low drag all the way to the link-up site.  ready?
sure.  now she wants to shoot.
move!
this am not workin' right!
what is our go-to-shit plan, o'neil?
this am not even workin' wrong!
really do not wanna be captured, el- tee.  heard some bad things.
fuck.  basher-basher, this is ground crew six requesting emergency extraction. stand by for a prc fix...
32 feet, six inches!
I am lookin', I am lookin'!
'cool?
smoke it!
who is it?
you know, i had an apartment about this size once.
wick.  they got your crew, too?
intagliata was out chasing breakfast.  they found his tracks. well, shit.
you really came back for more?  of this?
when i was sittin' behind a desk in washington, it made sense, somehow. blame it on my big brother.  he was spec-recon.  and the stories he used to tell...
if you got a good one, wick...
one time he was doing a rekkie of the libyan coastline.  this is, like, right before we bombed khadaffi into the past tense.  so his crew does a nighttime infil, maps all the big artillery placements and stuff, then turns around to get the hell gone.  but between them and the water are five libyan guards, all armed to the nuts.
they had to kill 'em?
nah, they were dead-ass asleep.  but on every guard's chest,they left one marlboro cigarette.  just a little calling card to say they would been there -- and could come back any time they wanted.
that is a good story.
so the shit you gotta go through? to get from here to there?  brother said it was worth it.  worth the training... worth the divorce... worth anything.
he was married?
at first.
you got anybody, wick?
not me.  you?
o'neil?
how did you make it last time, wick? how did you get through this part?
last time i didn't.
let's keep talkin', wick.  just keep talkin' to me...
subject?
o'neil, jordan.
thought you two were file-closed.
you knew about us?
sorry.  thought you knew i knew.
all right.  so who stands to gain if jordan flames out in a big way?
the e-ringers?  full integration is gonna cost the services billions at the worst possible time -- when congress is already swinging the axe.
congress cuts, military bleeds.  but pentagon's a big place.  let's narrow the sights.
the navy?  they have made it clear they do not want to pull missiles out of subs to make room for women's heads.  what is it going to cost to make a fleet of trident's co-ed?
sabotage born of economics? would not be a first.  but is hayes really going to start his watch with such a public failure?
possibly.  just to spite dehaven.
hmm.  let's aim higher.
the white house.  if jordan wins, dehaven wins in spades.  why?  well, it is been said that the only man the president fears -- am not no man.
the first female president?
do not for a second think she did not leak this story.  "g.i. jane" gives dehaven a symbol that taps into the biggest constituency of them all.
women.
if you were the president, would not that put a little piss in your shoes?
i do not know.  seems...
this am not about some little soldier girl sloggin' her way through commando school.  the implications go way beyond.
christ, i do not want to see her take a fall.  she thinks i do, but...
i take it this file is still open.
even tough i do not talk to her every day -- i still talk to her every day.  know what i mean?
okay, so now work it from the other end.  think about california -- and how things might be handled there.
i don't...  what, someone on base?  a "mole"?
this is what you get for brain- picking an old cia spook.  but if i needed to control the outcome of this test case, that is how I would do it.  a man-in-place.  makes everything very controllable.
simple question, lieutenant.  no reason not to answer.  what is your father's name?
"dad."
any brothers?  sisters?
dick, jane, and spot.
are you hungry?  what is your favorite food?  we will try to get it for you.
green eggs and ham.  you are not going to get anywhere.  you might as well put me in the cage.
you are in the cage, o'neil.  right here, right now.
should i be afraid?
right down to your worthless womb, and I will tell you why.  this is my island.  my world.  and here i can get away with shit that would get me arrested anywhere else in the world. take another scan of my little joy- boy outside.  if i can do that to a navy seal, what is going to happen to you?  huh?
why did not you shoot the woman, o'neil?
was not deemed a threat.
she led us right to you.  that is no threat?
would you have shot if it was a man?
no.  yes.  i mean, depends on --
the others already told me, o'neil. they wanted to shoot, but you would not let them.  because you went soft on another women --
that is not right.
that is what your crew said.  are they lying?  or are you?
i think you are the liar.
I am not the one who got five good men thrown in a bamboo cage.  you wear the bars, you made the call, and you got your whole crew --
we did not know we were compromised. firing would only've given away our position.
you think we should go easy on women, o'neil?
do you?
no.
I am so glad we agree.
did not you know you would be raped if you were captured?  did not you even think about that?
sure.  just like your men do.
i think we oughtta practice it, just so you know what to expect.
you do not think she would be raped if she were captured?  you do not think the threat of rape would be used to leverage the men?
you broke a dozen training rules back there -- before i lost count.
I have had it.  just because they pay me like a baby-sitter does not mean I am going to be one.
she is a trainee, just like the others.  why are you coming down so hard?
she is an officer.  there is a higher standard.
she is a women, and that is why you are ridin' her bareback.
of course it is.  and I am going to stay on her until everyone realizes this is not some bullshit equal-rights thing, that real lives are going to be lost.  maybe mine, maybe yours.
i oughtta report you.
i think you probably would -- if you did not know i was right.
yes?
did you hear?
she made it through s.e.r.e. training.  got a call this morning from --
not that.  the white house just announced that it was sponsoring legislation that would, in one stroke, void all remaining elements of the 1948 combat exclusion laws.
what the hell is the president trying to do?  steal dehaven's thunder?
i think it is more important, sir, to decide what we are going to do -- since it is apparent this issue is not going away quietly.
"g.i. jane."  and which one of you told me she would not last a week? huh?
sorry, did not mean to --
that is okay.  just an ex-girlfriend. and know i remember why.
first big night of liberty and no date?  you are pathetic, wickwire.
maybe I will just head over to mcp's with the others, have a drink or four.  do not wanna come, do you?
i can not go out.  not like this.
i think you look beautiful.
thanks for lying.  but you are the class officer, wick, and it would just be weird if we hook up.  besides...
do you, uh, know...
sure, sure.
we are going over to her place to make salad and pasta.  just, you know, nothing special.
okay.  well... thought I would ask.
o'neil?
sir?
you are wanted at the c.o.'s.
i do not know of any delicate way to say this, lieutenant, so i will not try.  claims have been made that you have engaged in fraternization -- of the same-sex variety.  specifically, that you were...  "... seen leaving the apartment of another female officer at such a time and in such a manner as to suggest conduct unbecoming."
sir, if someone is suggesting that I am a lesbian, they are wrong.
I am sorry, o'neil.  but as class officer, it is my obligation to report all violations.
this is insane.  you have got no proof.
I am saying, we are just friends.
i find this as distasteful as you, lieutenant.  but if it is on my desk, it is on my shoulders.  there is going to be an inquiry -- it will not be quick and it will definitely not be pretty.  you should prepare yourself.
sir, please... if there is any way to do this without dragging everyone through the mud...
i do not see how, o'neil.  dismissed.
sir.  if tomorrow... i was not under your command... would the inquiry still go forward?
I am not sure what --
would you have the discretion to end it right then and there?
all i wanted was an honest chance. and if i could not get it, i could not stay.
and this class officer... "wickwire."  you think he was just trying to get even?  striking back for...
maybe.  though it did not seem like he was getting any satisfaction out of it.  almost like...  did i say he was class officer?
almost like someone put him up to it.  okay, who?
no shortage of suspects.
the chief?  or maybe even turrentine?  your c.o.?
c'mon, jordan.  do the headwork with me.
it is done with, royce.  let it go.
someone screwed you over like this, left unanswered charges hanging over your head, and you are not going to fight back?
I am tired of fighting back.  i just wanted to come home and be safe and have you here and the river there and just forget the rest of the world, okay?
well, before you crawl off to die, jordan, give me five minutes of good headwork.
"john james urgayle."  the chief.
what about him.
instructors typically pull three year assignments.  this guy's in and out in one year -- your year.  that sound right?
sounds like an amazing coincidence.
or like maybe he was baby sitting a problem child for the navy.
i do not know, i do not care.
well, pardon me if i do.  now who else?  who could have leveraged a class officer like that?  c'mon, jordan, keep your head in the game.
"in washington..."
what?
wickwire said he was dry-docked in washington between stints at coronado...
"wickwire, thomas dane"... second run at coronado... and correct, they had him stashed in the "appropriation liaison office," whatever that is.
you do not crap out of spec-recon and get another shot without dispensation from someone up in flag country.  he is got a sea daddy somewhere.
I would sure like to know who.
yeah.  me too.
administration, ensign blondell.
do not say my name.
who's...  lieuten --
or rank.  but can you do me a favor and pull a transfer order?
okay, but... you did not have to do what you did.  not for me.
"wickwire, thomas dane."  see what you can find.
got it.
who signed as his "sponsoring officer"?
uh... do not see it.  there is no signature.  but hang on -- there is a note to "see addendum."  checking...
wow...
what did you find, kathy?
jordan.  i always hoped we would get together -- though just now I am gearing up for a child-care vote that --
lieutenant thomas wickwire.
you know him.
sounds familiar.
it should.  you nominated him for spec-recon just three days after you nominated me.
jordan.  might we do this over lunch tomorrow?  i do very much want to talk, but now is scarcely --
did you set me up?  did you set me up just to see me fail?
absolutely not.
wickwire was there to help.  to be my eyes on the inside, to make sure you were getting a fair shot.  at least that was the intent.
what changed?
should probably ask him that.
if i have to ask again, senator, I will be asking in front of cameras.
so?  is not the president jumping on your bandwagon?
what he did was light the bandwagon on fire.  because he knows what i know -- that american families are not prepared to put their daughters in harm's way.
you do not know that.
in face, i do:  roper, harris, gallop -- they all come back the same.
what are you saying?  that a women's life is more valuable than a man's? that a women's death hurts a family more?
I am saying it is not going to happen. not when the president is set to turn this into a third-rail issue should i choose to ever campaign against him.  he will fry me six ways to sunday for sending daughters and young mothers off to war -- and, quite possibly, for bringing them back in body bags.
you were never going to let women serve in combat.  you always had a safety net.  or thought you did.
jordan.  i do not expect you to fully understand this -- but sometimes there is more to be gained from the fight than the victory.
so the rhetoric gets you headlines. but the reality gets you in trouble.
the reality is this:  we send far too many men off to war.  i do not need to compound the problem with women.  can you honestly tell me you wanted that life?  squat-pissing in some third-world jungle with --
i wanted the choice.  the chance to prove myself, my skills, my work, me.  that is how it should have been.
i once promised you a fast ticket, jordan, and i always meant to make good on that.  come work for me.  i can always use a hard-charger on my team.
you promise wickwire a fast ticket, too?
I have had no direct communication with him since this whole thing began.  and that is quite verifiable.
I am sure it is.
you will think about my offer?
you know, i wonder what the secnav would think about it.  if i spoke with him.
well, i spoke with mr. hayes this morning myself -- and told him the deal was off.  no more test cases. he was only too happy to oblige.  do not play politics with me, little darlin'.  you would be up way past your bedtime.
well, if you had to go over my head, lieutenant, that is the way to do it.  christ, nothin' like a 0-200 call from the commander and chief to get the bowels movin'.
sir?  what did he say?
basically -- he asked me if i could unring a bell.
well, I am trying to figure out if you are stupid, unlucky, gluttonous -- or some new alloy of all three.
good to see you again, too, sir.
okay, o'neil.  so you have impressed all the others.  now try me.
i just wonder how that happened.
cortez, see if you can dig out the tools without losing the rest of out gear.  try a wrench on that thing.
you do not suppose this is just part of...
flea!  keep your eyes on that spot! mark it, mark it!  cortez?  what the hell you waiting for?
close as i can get, el-tee!
flea, 'cool, cortez, newman -- take your minis, hit the water.  go, go!
maybe we should call the coast guard.
shut your hole, slutnik.
managed to activate the elb.  if you just radio base and let them know, they will fix on that.  oh, and make sure they send a helo with a winch -- door's blocked by a reef.  over.
chief, sir -- rescue team will not be here for 15 minutes.  what is your air situation?  over.
say again?  how many micks?
15, sir.
got it.
show us where you are, chief.
six o'clock!  marking, marking!
spotted you, chief.  pri one is to slip you some air, so we are coming down with a tank -- just something until the a-team shows.  over.
so we got two full mini-tanks, three minutes each.  'cool?  how much air in yours?
maybe half.  not even.
grab an oar, find a way to weight it down, we are going to need it.  cortez, help him.  flea?  you take one of the two full minis -- and just follow my lead.
what, we are going to pry 'em out with paddles?
o'neil.  our air's going to crap out as soon as we get down there.  you know that, do not you?
o'neil...
shut up, sir.  I am concentrating.
the navy cross...
i believe he earned it for saving a man's life in saudi arabia.  he wanted you to have it.  he was very clear on that point.
i was looking for him earlier, but...
the chief was granted early retirement as of 17-hundred yesterday.  by 18-hundred he was gone.  out of the navy.
just a coincidence?
maybe it is not my place to speculate on his private thoughts.  but i think the chief knew that his way -- his world -- had come and gone.
so here we are again.  staring three years of operational duty in the face.
look.  it is not like you would be completely out of reach.  and maybe we could call in a few favors, get you stationed at norfolk instead of coronado.  there are ways of dealing with these things -- i mean, if people are so inclined.
which is guy-speak for...
"yes, jordan -- I will wait for you no matter how long."
