tell me -- do you think about hell?
"hell!"
no -- neither do i. but...  but this man is a christian and he has written --
excuse me, baas, but how long have you been in south africa?
a -- a week.
well, i do not know how you got a ticket for --
I will take your luggage back, baas.
no, no -- just a moment, please.
in england, i was a poor student but i --
that was england.
you mean you employ mr. baker as your attorney, but you can not walk down the street with him?
i can. but i risk being kicked into the gutter by someone less "holy" than mr. baker.
well, then, it must be fought. we are children of god like everyone else.
allah be praised. and what battalions will you call upon?
i -- i will write to the press -- here -- and in england.  and i will use the courts.
"a high court judge has confirmed that mr. gandhi would have been within his rights to prosecute for assault since neither he nor mr. khan resisted arrest." -- i told you about english law.
as i told you about english policemen.
just like proper english gentlemen. I am proud of them.
they are boys. -- and they are indian.
here, you see? even the south african papers apologize -- "a monstrous attack."
are you sure?
yes -- i can not talk like this.
oww!
mr. khan said they called you brave.
you would be gandhi --  ...i thought you would be bigger.
I am sorry.
i -- i mean it is all right. it does not matter.  I am -- my name is andrews, charlie andrews. I have come from india -- I have read a great deal about you.
some of it good, i hope.
you are a clergyman.
yes. I have -- I have met some very remarkable people in india... and -- and when i read what you have been doing here, i -- i wanted to help.  does that surprise you?
not anymore.  at first i was amazed... but when you are fighting in a just cause, people seem to pop up -- like you -- right out of the pavement. even when it is dangerous or --
that was lucky.
i thought you were a man of god.
i am. but I am not so egotistical as to think he plans his day around my dilemmas.
that is the sort of thing you will be seeking on this "farm"...
well, we shall try.
without a paper -- a journal of some kind -- you cannot unite a community.  you belong to a very important profession.
hm. and what should an "important professional" write about your response to general smuts's new legislation?
i do not know... I am still searching for a "response."
you will respect the law.
there are unjust laws -- as there are unjust men.
well, it is quite a place, your "ashram" -- is that right?
that is right. the word only means "community." but it could stand for "village"... or the world.
you are an ambitious man.
i hope not.
sora was sent to tell me i -- i must rake and cover the latrine.
everyone takes his turn.
it is the work of untouchables.
in this place there are no untouchables -- and no work is beneath any of us!
i am your wife.
all the more reason.
they are sparing no one, i see.
no. you were the surprise. it is been all over the prison. we thought they would be too afraid of the english press.
so did i.
i do not know who they have left out there to do the work. there can not be one mine left open. have they touched the women?
my wife publicly defied the law. they have arrested her and four others.
the fools!  sorry...
it is split the government.
well, that is one victory.
if we hold firm, it will not be the last.
do not worry -- I have never seen men so determined. you have given them a way to fight... and i do not think --
will you have a glass of sherry?
thank you. no.
perhaps some tea?
i dined at the prison.
ahh.
mr. gandhi, I have more or less decided to ask the house to repeal the act that you have taken such "exception" to.
well, if you ask, general smuts, I am sure it will be done.
hm. of course it is not quite that simple.
somehow i expected not.
I am glad to hear you say that... very glad. you see if we repeal the act under pressure  under this kind of pressure it will create a great deal of resentment. can you understand that?
very well.
good. good.  i have thought of calling for a royal commission to "investigate" the new legislation.  i think i could guarantee they would recommend the act be repealed.
i congratulate them.
you are an extraordinary man.
i assure you i feel a very ordinary man at this moment.
assuming we are in agreement?
yes -- yes. it is just that... in these clothes I would -- I would prefer to go by taxi.
all right. fine.
I am -- I am afraid i have no money.
oh!  neither have i.  I am awfully sorry.
who is that young man?
that is young nehru. he is got his father's intellect, his mother's looks and the devil's charm. if they do not ruin him at cambridge -- wave! wave! -- he may amount to something.
i must say when i first saw you as a bumbling lawyer here in bombay i never thought I would be greeting you as a national hero.
I am hardly that, mr. patel.
oh, yes, you are. it is been two hundred years since an indian has cocked a snoot at the british empire and got away with it. and stop calling me mr. patel, you are not a junior clerk anymore.
no.
we hope you intend to join us in the struggle for home rule, mr. gandhi.
i --
ah -- we should invite gandhi. what the devil has happened to him anyway?
he is "discovering" india.
please! you are being foolish!
there is no room! and the air is lovely.
no violence, please.
let me hang on with two hands or i will fall.
what are you doing?
going nearer to god!
have you read his magazine?
no -- but i think I am going to.
we only make wild speeches, or perform even wilder acts of terrorism. we have bred an army of anarchists but not one single group that can really fight the british anywhere.
i thought you were against fighting.
not quite. they are only "holding me" until the magistrate's hearing. then it will be prison.
did they take your clothes?
if i want to be one with them, i have to live like them.
i think you do.  but i thank god we all don't.
I am sure your legs are quite as handsome as mine.
ah, but my puritanism runs the another way. I am far too modest for such a display.
they are calling you "bapu." i thought it meant father.
it does. we must be getting old, charlie.
the honor is ours. may i introduce mr. kallenbach. he is an old friend  and his interest is in flowers. i presumed to tell him he could wander your gardens while we talked.
I will send my gardener. I am sure you will have much to discuss.
i am beginning to know mr. nehru.
well, I have called you here because I have had a chance to see the new legislation. it is exactly what was rumored. arrest without warrant. automatic imprisonment for possession of materials considered seditious...
you mean a general strike?
i mean a day of prayer and fasting. but of course no work could be done -- no buses, no trains, no factories, no administration. the country would stop.
fortunately such news comes very slowly where i live.
i think if we all worked to publicize it... all of the congress... every avenue we know.
maybe I am wrong... maybe we are not ready yet. in south africa the numbers were small...
the government's afraid, and they do not know what to do. but they are more afraid of terrorists than of you. the viceroy has agreed to your release if you will speak for non- violence.
I have never spoken for anything else.
god gave you ten thumbs.
eleven.
it must have been the only non-violent campaign ever led by a man who wanted to kill everybody every day.
not true!  the secret is mastering the urge.
it has. but you would be surprised. they understand -- they really do. it is not the workers you have to worry about.
good.  ba will have to teach you to spin too.
i would rather march.
first spin. let the others march for a time.
what can we do?
we must end the campaign.
after what they did at the massacre -- it is only an eye for an eye.
an eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind.  we must stop.
if we obtain our freedom by murder and bloodshed i want no part of it.
it was one incident.
tell that to the families of the policemen who died.
do you find me stubborn?
i do not know... i know you are right. i do not know that this is right.
i do not believe it -- even the british can not be that stupid!
panditji -- please, help me.
...and i knew something had to give. and i was determined to be here when it did.
how does a reporter in central america learn that gandhi was born in porbandar anyway?
oh, I have been a gandhi buff for a long time.
you mean gandhi?
back in south africa...  long time ago.
what was he like?
lots of hair... and a little like a college freshman -- trying to figure everything out.
well, he must have found some of the answers...
"take a fifth step, that we may serve the people."
"i will follow close behind you and help to serve the people."
"take a sixth step, that we may follow our vows in life."
"i will follow you in all our vows and duties."
it is beautiful.
even as a boy i thought so.
and you have come all this way because you think something is going to happen?
hm.  is it?
perhaps. I have come here to think about it.
do you remember much of south africa?
a great deal.
I have traveled so far -- and thought so much.  as you can see, my city was a sea city -- always filled with hindus and muslims and sikhs and jews and persians.  the temple where you were yesterday is of my family's sect, the pranami. it was hindu of course but the priests used to read from the muslim koran and the hindu gita, moving from one to the other as though it mattered not at all which book was read as long as god was worshipped.
and that is the basis of this "declaration of independence"?
yes, sir. the day he sets off everyone is supposed to raise the flag of "free india." then he walks some two hundred and forty miles to the sea and makes salt.
I am sure I am fit for at least five hundred miles.
you should ride the pony. it is not necessary to walk to prove the point.
and jinnah?
he is waiting. he is not prepared to accept it will mean as much as you think.
wait and see... wait and see...
you have done me a great service.
it would have been uncivil of me to have let you make such a long trip for nothing.
is it over if they arrest you now?
not if they arrest me -- or a thousand -- or ten thousand.  it is not only generals who know how to plan campaigns.
what did he say?
he said he is in charge...
are you going to walk all the way?
my name is walk-er. and i intend to report it the way it is.
...there's been no time to keep figures, but there must be ninety -- a hundred thousand under arrest.  and it still goes on.
who is leading them?
i do not know! nehru, patel, almost every congress official is in jail... and their wives and their children -- we have even arrested nehru's mother.
he is addressed this letter directly to you, has he?
yes, sir, he has. the usual -- india's salt belongs to india -- but then he says flatly that he personally is going to lead a raid tomorrow on the dharasana salt works.
thank him for his letter, and put him in jail.
they are only clinging to old dreams  and trying to split us in the old way. but the will has gone -- independence will drop like a ripe apple. the only question is when  and how.
i say when is now -- and we will determine how.
they are preparing for war. i will not support it, but i do not intend to take advantage of their danger.
that is when you take advantage.
no -- prison is rather agreeable to me, and there is no doubt that after the war, independence will come. my only worry is what shape it will take. jinnah has --
stop!
"...what shape it will take." jinnah has -- what?
jinnah has -- has cooperated with the british. it has given him power and the freedom to speak, and he has filled the muslims with fears of what will happen to them in a country that is predominantly hindu.  that i find hard to bear -- even in prison.
but do you really believe you could use non-violence against someone like hitler?
not without defeats -- and great pain.  but are there no defeats in this war -- no pain?  what you cannot do is accept injustice. from hitler -- or anyone. you must make the injustice visible -- be prepared to die like a soldier to do so.
is my finger supposed to be wrapped around that?
no. that is what you get for distracting me.
what do you expect when you talk like that?
i expect you to show as much patience as i am now.
i will not sit by to see the mastery of the british replaced by the mastery of the hindus!
muslim and hindu are the right and left eye of india. no one will be slave, no one master.
bapu, for me, and the rest,  if that is what you want, we will accept it. but out there  already there is rioting because hindus fear you are going to give too much away.
if you did this, no one could control it. no one.
he was right. it is insane -- anything would have been better.
have you found him?
in calcutta it is like civil war. the muslims rose and there was a bloodbath, and now the hindus are taking revenge -- and if we can not stop it there'll be no hope for the hindus left in pakistan.
...an eye for an eye making the whole world blind.
could we cut all news off? i know --
bapu -- please. where are you going.
we need your help!
there is nothing i can give.
what do you want?
that the fighting will stop -- that you make me believe it will never start again.
it is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man.
no... no. in every temple and mosque they have pledged to die before they lift a hand against each other.
you really are going to pakistan, then?  you are a stubborn man.
I am simply going to prove to muslims there, and hindus here, that the only devils in the world are those running around in our own hearts -- and that is where all our battles ought to be fought.
enough.
one more.
just an admirer...
nothing's more dangerous, especially for an old man.
