captain alexander hamilton, sir!
hamilton, you're going to have to cover our asses as we cross.
we've got powder but no ball!
then use rocks!
we can't take them.  are you all right?
we're leaving them?
they're finished, they can't help us anymore!  they've done their duty, general greene, now you do yours!
yessir!
well, john adams, your cousin has a marvelous gift.
yes, an astonishing power over weak minds.
horatio!  horatio gates, of course you know john adams of the massachusetts delegation.
good day, mister adams... george, what's the word from boston?
the last i heard, a bunch of drunken militia have dug in on breed's hill.  with one stroke the british could cut them off and apparently their leaders are too dumb to see it.
who's in command out there?
who the hell knows?  everyone's giving orders.  it's all very democratic.
george, we've got to get you out there before we lose our whole army.
with your support, horatio.  as one of our own who has seen combat with the british, your opinion counts.
as does your ability, horatio.  we must talk further, when it's more convenient.
colonel washington?  colonel nathanael greene, rhode island militia.
yes, yes, happy to meet you.
i... i'm possessed of the idea of a command in your army, sir.
it isn't my army yet, colonel greene.  looks like you've seen some action -- did you hurt your leg, in a fight?
i was born with a limp, sir.  the militia used to hate it when i marches with them because my pike would always sway...
but, you do come from a military family?
i have commanded the rhode island militia for a year now.  my father is an ironmaster.  as was i.
a horseshoer?
yes, but i've spent the last winter studying all the great battles of history.  and i read the lives of caesar, alexander, hannibal...  sir, i'm volunteering you the wholehearted support of the rhode island army.
you won't be needing his largess, rhode island is already committed to your appointment.
i don't know:  delivering men and delivering men with their goodwill are two different things.  and, if he's popular with his men...
colonel charles lee... hounds and all.  quite the character.  he's got a tremendous reputation.
i think many would like to see him commander-in-chief.
colonel, sir, mrs. washington inquires if you are going to join her for dinner?
tell mrs. washington i am compelled to stay a while longer.
washington is perfect.  he's a southerner, he's a war hero and he's rich!
he's from virginia -- there is no more classist, elitist... english place on earth than virginia.  and, what in hell has he done for our cause?  washington has been preaching compromise, compromise, compromise!  hancock acts, he led the boston tea party!  that's why new england loves him.
hancock led the boston 'tea party' because he's a goddamned tea smuggler!  he wasn't protesting inequality, he was eliminating competition.  now, you listen to me:  we need to get a southerner elected commander-in-chief, or the south will not fight!  what have we been struggling for all these years?  for this moment!  and, if we fail now, remember:  you stopped us!
you are a slave owner!  you have been illegally surveying lands beyond the ohio valley!  that land belongs to the natives!
that land belongs to the strongest.
all people have rights!
just because they are born?
yes!
who says so?
i say!
i see...
and 'others', say... have you even read locke, vattel, voltaire, diderot...
are these philosopher going to be here to help you fight your war? you know why i don't trust revolutions?  because each of us is who we are:  we make speeches, print pamphlets, and we never change.  the world is not a philosophical abstraction, mister adams, it's us.  and, i don't believe you can ever change human nature.
you hear that?
that?  i hear a mob:  unemployed, drunkards, vagabonds... the world's dregs.
well, i hear 'the people'.  indentured servants, freed slaves... escaped slaves.  the world's castaways.  and, my fear is, in the scramble for power that's coming, you will betray them.
we've got to attack the british! now!  have they put you in charge yet?  do we have an army yet?  what is happening?
patience, colonel arnold.  active personalities terrify these men.  but, congratulations on your victory at ticonderoga...
i capture quebec leading an army by river fordings through maine... if we don't do it, the british will come down champlain, take back ticonderoga and attack us in the spring.
you'd have to travel hundreds of miles through the wilderness.
over three hundred miles.
you seem pleased by the prospect.
exceedingly.  besides, if i had half the wagons that were used to lug the rum to philadelphia for this congress, i could move a whole army to the moon!
what's your frank estimation of the british?
well, you fought with them against the french and iroquois, how good were they then?
they died well.  otherwise, they didn't do much right.  but if we have war, the british will surely send their best troops:  right now they have no other enemies.
and a french alliance?
ben franklin's going to paris, but i think the french will be long on talk and short on guns.  our troops are mobs, they won't take orders, have no equipment... could they beat the british?
it comes down to leaders.  if our leaders are ordinary men who truly believe; if they go into the forests with the troops, eat what they eat, fight with them, perhaps to die?  the most common soldier will defy your most depressing expectation.
it's another demonstration against the king.  this is the wildest yet.
my god, these people mean to go to war!  they really mean it.
surely you knew this was coming.
war?  no!  i did not!  when you said compromise was possible i believed it was probable.  there's no middle ground at all?  we're the king's children!
our beloved father, the king, also refuses to bend.
but to go to war over trade, over money?  surely there's still time for a compromise.
of course, if it were that simple.  these people?  they're after something else...
my god, what?
the eternal dream of the disenfranchised, my dear:  a classless world.  not a very real expectation.
well, a very real expectation is the british will hang you!  they'll burn mount vernon and they'll hang you!  our marriage is a business just as surely as...
i'm very aware of that.
i can not allow the fortune in slaves my first husband created and what our partnership has elevated, to be destroyed...
don't be ridiculous, of course that won't happen.
have you been reading what minister jefferson has to say?  if he had his way, all our slaves would be freed no matter what the outcome. and that would destroy us as surely as a british victory.
the day tom jefferson frees a slave i'll ride naked through the streets of williamsburg on a mule.  tom jefferson is one of those people who talks big and acts small.  the only man out there who really does what he says is sam adams and everyone thinks he's crazy.  believe me, this 'disturbance' isn't going to last long.  you have to understand, congress is a chicken coop full of foxes, martha, each and every one has his eye on a nice, fat prize.
and, what 'prize' do you see?  what could we possible gain?
everything.  if we force britain into concessions it will open up the western lands -- and that would be a boon for our family.  we already have more slaves than we need, but we need more land.
but, as usual, it will not go well for... them.  martha, you must trust me.
you're no fool, george.  you never have been.
"liberty, virtue, country"... that's from cato... you know, that play about the noble romans?  as i was riding up to philadelphia, i found myself thinking about the old days...
when you lived with the fairfaxes?
when i was a young man we used to recite cato... we would come together recite it like they were words from heaven.  devotion to country, duty, purity of heart... purity of heart.  i was drunk on something then...
that's when sally fairfax was tutoring you...
that's right...
and have you heard anything from our dear friend, sally?  what with all the rumors getting back to england.  i thought she might inquire after us.  but then i believe she always looked down on us.
any word from canada?
spies from quebec confirm that the british are sending an entire fleet down lake champlain...
a fleet?
my god... they mean to finish us. what about arnold?  he's up there.
what can he do?  the british have massive superiority.
i doubt arnold will be afraid.
if he isn't, then he's stupid.
did god ever make such a pitiful army?
these men have suffered but i believe they will fight.
no officer is going to get these men to fight!  they had the life crushed out of them on long island. at the most, perhaps we could make a feint at an outpost, then retire to protect congress.
i hear general lee is holding seven thousand fresh infantry back in new york -- why won't he come on!?
general lee is detained captain...
detained by what?
the british army, sir!
the british army is right back there, across that river!  sir!  i think it must be something else that detains general lee.
congress is bitterly opposed to allowing negroes in the army!
we already have black soldiers in our army...
unofficially, general greene.
what's the difference?
if we have any hope for a compromise or truce with england now, we have to hold on here:  our men must believe they can win -- the british must believe that somehow, in some mad, impossible way we might actually be able to hurt them.
i understand, george.
the only way to get discipline into these men is to beat it into them! fifty lashes each!
sir, congress hasn't issued their pay for two months, many have not eaten properly for at least that long.  you're being a little hard on them, don't you think?
nathanael, someone bred to station, bred to being a gentleman -- unlike these men -- his sense of duty naturally prevails over the baser needs.
well sir, i was an ironmaster before you got me.  maybe i will let you down yet.
i certainly didn't mean you.  of course you are a gentleman, an officer and a gentleman.
you wrong me, general; i am an officer and a horse-shoer.
how old are you, captain?
i'll be twenty next year, sir.
i'll expect you for dinner this evening, captain hamilton.  for christ's sake, have a bath.
delighted, sir.
general greene?
i'm with captain hamilton.
yes, i thought that's how you'd feel, nathanael.
excuse me, general, but may i ask how do you feel?
no one wants to turn the table on the enemy more than i.  but if victory is remote and there's any hope for a negotiated peace, we must keep this army intact.
therefore, retreat.
i'm so inclined.
well, sir, then is it possible you called us all here just to hear what you wanted to hear.
general washington, is there actually going to be a compromise, i mean, a 'deal' with england?
and is that the most horrible thing in the world?
captain, i want you to know that i respect your openness.  it would make me happy if you'd join our table for dinner from now on.
with pleasure... and an honor.  did you hear about nathan hale?
that young school teacher... i heard the british hung him as a spy.
but it's what he said, just before they killed him:  "i regret that i have but one life to give to my country."
so, you are william's wild young neighbor?  or should i say, 'brother'; william claims you as a member of his family.  i have heard so many unflattering tales about you, and i understand, that except for you, this 'family' is quite cultivated.
george, i'm sorry.
oh, but you must not mind my talking about you!  in fact, william says my main job here at belvoir is to civilize you; to make an honest english gentleman out of you.
that's not what i said!  now, sally, you're embarrassing me!  watch out for her, george; she talks refinement, but she has a barbarous soul!
the land here is best for grain and corn.
though, sometimes we get frost and that can cut the season.
we can grow three primary crops in a season and, if we have some luck, we get a forth.  the temperature is generally mild.
except for that, quite like home; england, that is.
hear that, george?  sally's actually taken to thinking of this clod of earth as her home.  and it's her first tour.  we're gratified, aren't we george?
where... do those men come from, george?
africa, of course.
africa?  that's so far?  how do they get here?
slavers capture them and bring them here.
capture them?  well, i've never seen anything like it, so... of course i'm curious.
sally, our slave system is a british law...
the word 'minuet' finds its source in minitus, which is latin meaning 'small' or 'orderly'.
or, 'civilized'.
in the minuet, george, every movement is significant, like the strut of cranes...
cranes?  who needs to walk like a crane?
that's just my interpretation. actually it's a dance designed as a sentiment of courtly manners. you see?  walk in a gently 'z'. there are four distinct movements...
what do you really think of the minuet, anyway?
it's stupid, of course.
then why are you teaching me...?
perhaps you best ask, why you wish it.  you asked william to teach you manners, philosophy, decorum... as i said, it's completely stupid.
i always though london was the place to be:  capital of the world, the most spectacular city on earth.
the place to want to be is america. every english child dreams of it. i dreamt it.
i think america suits you.
do you?  when i saw those men yesterday in the field... and the women and children in those hovels? i'm not so sure if america is as far from england as i'd hoped.
it's the freest land on earth.
is it?  well, i'm scared of what we've become in our freedom.
well, we must be who we must be...
and to think i am teaching you to become one of them...
what else should i become?  there's no difference between virginia and england.  i must be educated if i'm to take my place in society.  my father couldn't afford to send me to england for school -- he made a shambles of our fortunes.  everyone laughs at me.
i don't laugh at you, george.  i like you.  i like you because you will never, ever make it as an aristocrat... and that's because you're completely incompetent at hiding your feelings.
i think i will disappoint you.
what are you doing?
let's get you darker!
you're out of your mind!
why?  juba was an african and you want to look the part -- hold still.
they can use their imaginations.
those people?  i doubt they'd think of this.  ooo, you're wonderful this color!
i've been surprised in an unguarded hour, but must not now go back; the love that lay, half smothered in my breast, has broke through all, its weak restraints, and burns in its full lustre.  i cannot, if i would, conceal it from thee.
i'm lost in ecstasy!  and dost thou love, thou charming maid?
and dost thou live to ask it?
my daughter, i ask only...
this, this is life indeed!  life worth preserving, such life as juba never felt till now.
for god sake, get that horrid stuff off your face.  you look like a damned slave!  it's damned humiliating.
juba was a numidian.
he was not black!  he was... tan! weathered!
think what the play means, william. perhaps these words have a place in the real world.
words, words, words!  sally has been tutoring george in the philosophies, isn't that right?
william, we've been studying hard, i really know my stuff.
don't be silly, you have whole worlds to fathom.
remember, george, "it is dangerous to be right in matters on which the established authorities are wrong."
that's good... who?
voltaire, of course...
well, the widow curtis will bring you riches, position, land, even half-grown children.  you won't have to do anything at all!  you shan't have to do another thing to prove yourself.
you know very well who it is that i love.
is that the truth?  well, we can't carry on like animals any longer.
george, you know i only love you, but...
but not more than your comfort.
and what is this, then?  been off to fight the french because you are a patriot?  or is this you, gaining your long sought after rise in society by becoming victorious in war!?
that's a lie!
is it?  william says now you have requested a british commission, why not colonial?  i'll clear it up for you, sir, because as a british officer you can lord over colonial yokels -- more than that, it will even get you into polite society! your dream come true, george, the only dream that really matters to you.
perhaps you've been counting my acres, mrs. fairfax, and discovered exactly how poor i really am.
now that is a lie!  see how much you want to create a scandal in exchange for a glowing reputation and polite society laid at your feet!  when you break off your engagement to martha curtis, i'll divorce william!  do you hear?  you get what you want from this world, then throw it all away on love!
i'd throw everything away for you.
you remember, george, when we were 'studying' the great philosophers?
i remember a pair of young philosophers once, who laughed at the world.
well, i remember a philosopher who said something that i used to think was just another of those stupid class denouncements... but which i now see means us all.
really?  which precious homily was it?
"mankind is born free, but everywhere he is in chains..."
arnold!
i've come to report that we've had a bit of luck!
damn-it!  you've given us a whole new season, benedict!  and congress thinks that the british are going to ride right over us come spring. now half their army is back in canada.
congress has picked up it's skirts and is racing for baltimore. they're not waiting for spring!  of course, they still had time to deny my promotion.  even john adams voted against it...
why in hell would john do that? why in hell would any of them do that?  after all you've done, it's unbelievable!
oh, they have reasons... there's a lot of confusion these days.
they don't trust me, that's the truth isn't it?  sam adams never did.
but trust you to do what?  one side in congress wants compromise; another glorious battle; some surrender -- some, of course, just want power and money.  but if you don't mind my asking, george, what are your plans?
we're in bad shape, benedict, moral is low.  before i can do anything, i need lee and his seven thousand troops.  i've ordered him to join us three times.  in my last letter i all but begged him to come here. the man is insubordinate.
the man's waiting for you to get wiped off the stage so he can become commander and chief.
go on... i want to hear everything.
congress is talking -- openly -- about replacing you with lee.
is that a fact.
it is.
what do you think, george, shall i resign?  it's what they want.
don't do anything rash, please, benedict.
they're just disgusting, jealous, bottom-feeding swine.  it's their nature.
you have a free tongue, captain hamilton.
the army needs you.
the army can survive without me.
then, i need you.  we all do. without your victory the men would have no hope at all.
someday, george, you may need to act for the good of the people no matter what congress thinks that is.  it may come down to us, or them someday.  you or them.  cicero was right:  was is 'a time when the laws are silent'.
i hope i never have to believe that.
christ, george, joseph reed's been writing letters back to congress attacking you.  your own aide!
colonel reed...
george!  so good to be back!
that damned arnold is here, isn't he?  did you know he lost all his ships?  outrageous and completely unacceptable.
joseph, the british spent thousands of pounds and precious months putting together a fleet that arnold stopped by sacrificing a heap of old barges.  in my opinion he saved my army.
well, george, congress just passed a resolution censuring arnold for destruction of government property. i wouldn't cast my fate with that man.
a grand scheme?
a ground swell-christian movement, george, you see?
no.  as a matter of fact i haven't the slightest idea what you're talking about.
to assert the rights of our founding fathers!  this country was colonized by christians!  this shall become a christian revolution.  surely as a good christian you understand that!
what do you mean you're not a christian?  of course you're a christian, we're all christians...
i mean, i'm a deist.  a belief i share with the likes of tom jefferson and ben franklin.  surely you knew that.
no, i did not.  really?  well, what the hell is a deist, precisely?
some say that hessians are invincible.
they always say that.
they're among the best divisions the british have.  no conscripts, no impressed recruits, just professional killers.
it's a wonder they find the british cause worth dying for.
well, now there's something worth dying for.  what do you think?
hmmm... she's beneath me, i'm afraid.
i wish she was beneath me.
unfortunately, i'll never get the chance.  i'm leaving in an hour for congress to scream like a violated virgin about my promotion.  wasting my time, naturally... look at her teasing those bumpkins.
what does she see in them?
after visiting congress i know what it's like being violated by come disproportionate asses!  ah, if she only knew that the most important men in the country -- possibly the world -- are sitting at this table...
we're so damned important!  look at us -- nathanael, you were a horse- shoer, benedict, before this?
well, truth be told?  i was a pharmacist.  alexander?
i was a clerk's apprentice on saint croix.  but, then i went to king's college.
to learn to shoot cannon?
well, george, who were you?
i?  you all know my history.
sir, if you don't mind my saying, i don't understand your history at all.  i mean, why would you want to win the war?  you're not after glory, like benedict...  you're a slave owner, and yet you invite blacks to fight in your army.
you don't believe i can fight from a sense of duty and patriotism?
no.  we're all of us after something.  it's easy for me to fight for the common man.  my father could only dream that i would be... a general someday?  and what of my daughter or son?  i know what i'm after.  but now, with all this talk about compromise?  it means the rich will just be more wealthy and the common man has no hope.
i will not betray you, nathanael.
but you are an aristocrat and a slave owner.  sir.
at one time i could have chosen not to be.
then, maybe i do see what you're after -- perhaps... you get to chose again...
but the hessians are there!  no one can beat them!  that's why cornwallis stationed them there! they have the post of honor!  they are invincible!
they are also very religious.  so, we will attack them three days from now, on christmas.  one force under me, and another to the south under colonel cadwalader...
george, i'm afraid if you go through with this madness i must tender my resignation as your aide. i see where we're headed, you're putting your trust in the likes of hamilton and arnold...
how many generals do we have like arnold?  he's got guts -- he's vain, and he fights!
and, hamilton?  greene?
they help me understand why we fight.
understand?  you need to be listening to people like john adams, and to keep the best interest of the country first in your mind!
joseph, are you afraid to cross that river with me?  i accept your resignation.  with regret.  you have leave to return to philadelphia...
let's not over do it...
i tell you every damned place i go the man is adored!  "general washington!  champion of trenton! savior of the republic!"  and you should hear the way people are deprecating congress!
makes you gag.
gag on your own invention, then.
oh, come now...
you invented this, this...
you think that?
he has the soul of an aristocrat who'd like nothing more than to become a king in the minds of the people!
no one wants another failure right now, god knows.  but people like arnold and, god knows, i'm having my fears about general washington.
finally!?  it's people like these who, as soon as they get a little power, want more and more.  more ale, here!
again, just to touch on a touchy subject, but... would the people accept another leader over washington?
no uniforms.  no coats, even?  in this weather?
no, my lord.
what sort of boots would you say he's wearing?  i should say, no sort of boots at all.  aren't those rags wrapped around his feet?  is that what he marched here in?
yes, my lord.
and, is that a pitchfork beside him?
many of them, many did not possess proper arms.  my lord.
negroes?  washington has black men in his army?  are they good fighters?  what's that red ribbon on his arm, colonel?
because they have hardly any uniforms, they designate officers with colored ribbons.  my lord.
by red, what rank would you say this black, officer, soldier is, colonel?
i, don't know what color is what officer, my lord...
did you know that jefferson has proposed a law in virginia aiming at an absolute separation of state from the church?
i think i heard that.
it's an anti-christian dogma!  i cannot believe you are so calm about it!
what else?  from virginia?
well, i wouldn't want to trouble you with this now.
martha... what?
virginia is outraged with your order allowing negroes to fight in the army.  there's a deep feeling of hurt and betrayal.  they wanted you commander because they expected you would look out for our interests.
to win this war i need an army.
oh, indeed?  you know very well people are frightened of arming the negroes!  they beg you to consider the future.  what good is a revolution if it overturns those things we cherish!?
what's the point of a revolution if it doesn't?
some things must never change.
is that why you come in here tossing pennies to my starving men? it's damned condescending!
don't condescend to me!  we have both of us prospered from the arrangements of our kind...
our 'kind'?  what is that supposed to mean?  these men are all i have left and they stay because they will fight!  they desire it!  they seek it!  of course virginia is terrified!  for my soldiers this is a war to obliterate the 'upper class' from the face of the earth! should i tell them all to go home because if they win it will ruin me!?  it is impossible for me to imagine that negroes are fighting so that only white men may be free! if we win this war they will own this country too!
well, we must keep in mind the dower laws.  one third of everything we have is mine and since our negroes have been interbreeding, it would be legally impossible to distinguish them.
martha!  for god's sake!
leave me, now sir, i am tired.
come out and meet my soldiers. they're good people.
not today.
i want you to see our hospital.
i don't want to see your hospital.
you, you just need a new flint, general.
you are never, never to touch my guns!  do you understand!?
yes, general.  but if you have to shoot somebody, you can't.
none of the servants is to touch a gun!  you know that!
well... i misunderstood, then.
misunderstood what!?
a lot of years have gone by.
what?  what are you talking about?
that you would have known you can trust me.
me?  you apologizing to me?
yes, william.  i am apologizing.
however, through my relations with members of his majesty's court, i am a representative of the french government whose deepest desire is to be one people, united with our american brothers in arms to defeat the rapacious armies of king george of england.  vive la france!  vive l'amerique!
we have more officers created by congress than we know what to do with.
but, general, i assure you my motives are sincere.
sir, please accept my commission from congress... and...  you must see this portrait of my beautiful wife, adrienne, we had the most perfect little baby girl just before i left.  her name is henriette...
what i want to know is sir:  where is your daddy?
gentlemen, my i introduce a french gentleman, recently appointed major general by congress...  marie joseph paul yves roch gilbert du motier, marquis de lafayette. general lafayette has brought us the greetings and goodwill of his countrymen, and... how many cases of muskets, mon petite marquis?
uh... none just now, but...
'continentals', congress' paper money.  it was worthless to start with, but as you see, counter feiters have made them even less than worthless.  can you tell which one is fake?
i... they look both the same.
the one with 'philadelphia' spelled correctly is the counterfeit.
no, please; an advance on your salary.
mon general, i have come here to learn and to give, not to take.  i am serving without salary.
you must be very rich.
i am.  then, i understand you too serve without salary.  you know, since your charming little victories at trenton and princeton, the french court is softening.  i expect any time now a ship load of supplies...
'charming little victories?' please don't expect much more of us, monsieur.
i only meant...
these supplies...?
muskets and uniforms and bayonets.
and how rusty are these muskets?
sir, these are our finest firearms from the armory at charleville! they are a gift from the people of france!
well, we will accept these charming little gifts.  when we see them. meanwhile, please, take your pick of a horse.
i rode here, on my horse.
chose another.  any general worth anything should have a brace of horses.
are you going to keep him, sir?
we better, congress invented him.
because, if the british got off their asses and came up here, now, we would be smashed.  and the revolution would be finished.  tell king louis, it's that bad.
yes, i will write him and tell his ministers and the court.
it's impossible to stop these men deserting in winter, you might as well stop geese from migrating.
they go back home to keep their families alive, stay into the spring to plant.  then, they start coming back to us.
like flowers after the snow melts.
when the snow melts, mon petite marquis, i suspect the only thing blossoming will be bright red british soldiers.
i'm accused of using some government wagons to ship personal property.
congress has been using our supply wagons for years to ship their black market goods -- probably their whores!
our plan is to hit them as they leave.
while they're strung out?
exactly.  we'd attack the baggage wagons and the rear guard.  it would cause the line to buckle. then we hit the center with our main force and cut them in half.
they're ready.  believe me, the ones that stayed on here at valley forge are ready for anything.  of course, we get nothing from congress.  they need boots, coats... we desperately need food.
same old story.
there was this anonymous pamphlet circulated at congress which says i am personally responsible for all our hardships.  and... that i have encouraged the people of america to make me into a god!  benedict, it says that i have gone mad!
that can't be.
there's this whispering campaign against me ever since gates won at saratoga.
gates?  he used my battle plan and i humbly submit that without me he'd still be back at saratoga waiting for the british to attack.  george, why haven't you moved into the potts' house back at the creek? much more befitting of a commander and chief than your field tent. and... you could entertain.  i think you need to entertain more. seriously!  get a few new jersey whores up here, invite some congressmen... couldn't hurt.
as soon as the men have good shelters i'll move.  perhaps martha will join me this winter.
there, then, you can have sort of a normal life.
have you heard?  the british are negotiating to make a trade for general lee.
i'm sure his dogs will be overjoyed.
the point being:  he's also a candidate for my job.  if we can pull this off, maybe i can restore their faith in me.
what is it, marquis?
my baby daughter has died... my baby... mon petite henriette...
general lee, welcome back.  i'm happy you've decided to join us.
more than that, sir... my orders from congress.
i am to take command of major general lafayette's division and lead the attack.
lafayette will not be happy...
what are we going to do?
get the body of our army up to greene's vanguard as fast as we can.  all the damned fool has to do is hit the british rearguard and then hold for us.
my god!  who ordered this retreat?!
general lee, sir!
get these men back in line!
what the goddamned hell do you think you are doing!?
the british!  these men cannot stand against them!
what do you know about these men!? they can stand against anything! they've seen more war than most field generals!  they are not cowards, sir!  they are not afraid!
who is that!?
that's greene.  he's supporting our reconsolidation.
marquis!  get these men reformed, send steuben and wayne out on the left...
what the hell are we doing?
you've got to stop them here or our whole line will cave-in!  it's all right boys, i'm here!
wil...
yes, general?
you've served me loyally, year after year, without complaining. i've thought hard about you this past winter.  i want to free you, wil.  i want to give you your freedom, after this battle is fought.
yes, general.
wil, i'm giving you your freedom. do you understand?
no.  i guess.
you'd have money every year, so you wouldn't have to work.  you can stay at mount vernon as long as you want...
that scum joseph reed... they're calling him the 'king of pennsylvania'.  the man's a budding cromwell.  he condemns rich tories to death and then 'appropriates' their property for himself. naturally, the pig hates me for every tory i've saved.
couldn't you have appealed to congress?
they love reed and his inquisition! i think they hope to share in his disgusting profits!  it's becoming the american way!
you go too far, benedict.
these men were taken from their homes at night, tried by reed's courts -- which congress recognizes -- and, well, you can see.
cut those men down.  congress is pushing ahead with your court-martial.  benedict, trust me to handle this.
gentlemen, let me get to the point, i can't see the wisdom of pursuing this old court-martial against general arnold.
the man is a traitor!
how can you say that?
if he supports the british why is it that every time he gets near them he kills so many of them?  unlike general lee... who you and congress backed for second in command and who is a goddamned incompetent!
lafayette is a child!
lafayette is my friend!  he believes in glory and truth and the freedom of all mankind; so, of course he's a child.  but he would have died before he would have let me down.
is that your test of patriotism, george; if a man will die for you?
god damn you, sam adams!  you wanted a revolutionary army and now that we've really got one it scares you more than it does the british!
arnold is indispensable, do you understand?  i need arnold to help me win this war!
well, i shall deny him to you!  he is evil on earth!
are you all going insane!? benedict arnold!  the man who stopped the british on lake champlain!  who carried the day at saratoga!  goddamn-it, joseph, you own two mansions, ride in an expensive, tory coach!  you are all nothing but a pack of greedy pigs!
george, i'm sorry.  we all know the army will acquit arnold...
of course the army will acquit him, that's not the point... arnold is a man and will understand.  what i need to understand is, john, sam... what is happening here?  who are those people in there?  the fat ones in silk?
they are... friends of congress.
is that where our meat and boots and uniforms and muskets went?
partially...
it's the political 'cost of doing business', george.
general greene is here.  there are two other divisions here.
colonel hamilton.  anyone who served under arnold, i want them shipped north.  i don't want any troops here who served under arnold.
yessir.
did you know that arnold left the entire defenses of this fort in complete disrepair?  most of our cannons are so neglected they may as well have been spiked!?  you realize what would happen if this fort fell?  the whole hudson would be open to them!
sir, i think no such thing.
don't lie to me, hamilton!  if i had not court-martialed arnold...
sir, arnold is a traitor.
i must tell you sir you treat me with disrespect!
i am not conscious of it, sir!  but since you have thought it necessary to tell me so, we part!
nathanael, i'm sending you to virginia to head the southern army, to harass cornwallis.  marquis, you must go with him.
i'm honored, but, reluctant to leave you.
i feel the same, sir.
i will continue with our french allies, concentrating on new york.
sir, i have to act on instructions from you ordering thirty copies of your own dress uniform...
they're for my bodyguard.  i have an absolute conviction that arnold is planning to have me assassinated!  it will be harder if i am surrounded by a body of men who look like me, don't you think?
yes sir, it's a wise idea...
what is this?
congress has informed the army that it is bankrupt and cannot pay the soldiers pensions.
this is a declaration of insurrection!  who wrote this!?
no one knows...
george, remember that night when we were drinking with arnold?
to hell with arnold...
he warned you some day you might have to act for the good of the people -- even if it was against congress.  george, the time has come for you to declare yourself king of america.  listen to me, the whole army would rise up as one and place you on a throne!  george, you must declare yourself with us or against us.
is this a coup?  alexander, are you trying to tell me that i might be assassinated if i don't agree?
what's your advice, alexander?
march on philadelphia!  get joseph reed, and the pigs in congress, the speculators, who've grown fat off the war!  get them all!  sweep them aside!
i want to address the officers, all the officers.  next friday.  can we arrange it at the mess?
yes, i believe so.
well, if it's my last order, then i order them to be there!  tell them i will give them my decision then.
wil, i want to remind you of a conversation we started just before monmouth...
i ain't forgot about the freedom.
well, what have you thought?
well, general, i think i ain't got no school learning, i ain't got no trade... and i'm a drunk.  so, i think there ain't much left to be set free.
well, this must be about something!
it is; we need you george.
have you decided if you are going to join the virginia delegation to the constitutional convention?
i'm not sure.
george, you're the only man the people trust... trust with power. they know you won't betray them.
but it's more than just that, am i right?
if the constitution is ratified... we'll have a country.  they'll want to elect you president of the convention, which means president of the country.
you know, i came back to mount vernon to retire.  i don't need to be in government.
that's why the people trust you george.  without someone at the convention, who has the people behind him, everything will fail. will you do it?
you're asking me to be president of a republic, not king?  not a dictator over subjects?
