they are closing the granview. you know, theater down on biscayne?
yeah, the guy owes momo a few g's.
what I am thinkin' is maybe momo could buy it.
momo could buy it, i could run it for him. show some cagney films.
what is momo going to want with an old place, shows old movies people do not care about no more. outside of maybe turnin' it into a porno house, i do not think he is going to give much of a fuck. and you already got a job.
it is not one of these?
you see a black leather jacket, fingertip length, like the one pacino wore in serpico? you don't, you owe me three seventy-nine.
maybe you do not see my sign?
we call you a taxi.
lemme get this straight. you are not responsible for any lost articles like an expensive coat of mine, but you are going to find ray bones' coat or get him a new one? is that what you are telling me?
mr. barboni is a good customer.  works for jimmy capp.
i know who he works for. where is your phone.
you sure it was ray bones took the coat?
that is what the guy said.
tomorrow, i see on the tv weather, it is going to be nice and warm. you will not need the coat.
hey, chili.  get your coat, but do not piss the guy off, okay? it could get complicated and we would have to call momo to straighten it out. then momo gets pissed for wasting his time and we do not need that.
do not worry about it. i will not say any more than i have to, if that.
no, i said I am never goin' to bed. there is a difference. see, the article says most people die in their beds. i figure long as i stay outta bed, I am safe.
that is the dumbest thing i ever heard. where do you sleep?
in an armchair. or i go to a coffee shop, sleep there. sit in a booth, pull my hat down.
you cut straight hair in this place, or just fags?
hey, bones, looks like you are going to have a nice scar up there. maybe these guys can fit you with a rug, cover it up for ya.
you got a miss. leo devoe. guy's six weeks over.
he died.
how did you know he died, he tell you?
yeah, he told me.
personally?
yeah, ray, he personally told me he got killed in that get away airlines' jet went down last month.
what get away jet?
it was in the herald.
yeah, well, maybe the guy took out flight insurance. check with the wife.
hey, it is your book now. you want to check it out, go ahead. he is got a dry cleaning business out on federal highway.
which also means when i speak, I am speakin' for jimmy. so e.g. as of now, you start affording me the proper respect.
'e.g.' means 'for example', ray. i think what you wanna say is 'i.e.'
bullshit. e.g. is short for 'ergo'.
ask your man here.
you owe me the dry cleaner's fifteen grand plus the juice which is what another, uhh...
twenty seven hundred.
exactly. you either get it from the wife or out of your own pocket, i do not give a fuck. you do not ever hand me a book with a miss in it.
i told you not to -
do not say a fuckin' word.
anyway, you want this guy, he is in l.a. we put him on a flight after he spanked one a my cocktail girls in the keno room.
leo spanked a waitress?
apparently, way it went, he invited her to come to santa anita to play the ponies with him. she told him what to do with that and he gave her one on the tush. my guess, he is by his lonesome at the track right now.
hey, chil? since you are goin' out to l.a. anyway.
what have you got?
guy owes us a hundred and fifty grand, sixty days over; a movie producer.
movie producer? yeah, why not.
what is this?
an oldsmobile silhouette.
i reserved a cadillac.
yeah, well, this one's the cadillac of minivans.
you are kidding me, right?
hey, you want la tierra rent-a-car just over there, but i think all they got are rabbit convertibles.
what is wrong?
be quiet and listen.
i do not hear anything.
when i came upstairs, you stayed to finish your drink. i told you to turn off the tv when you were through.  come to think of it, i also told you you could sleep in the maid's room.
yeah, well i turned off the set. i used the remote control thing and laid it on the floor. you know what could have happened? the dog came in and stepped on it, turned the tv back on.
i do not have a dog.
you don't? what happened to muff?
harry, are you going down, or you want me to?
anyone skim the pool? it needs it.
harry -
I am going.
jesus, if i have a heart attack, i hope you know what to do.
where you been, harry?
have we met? i do not recall.
we just did. i told you my name's chili palmer.
did you stop to think what if i had a heart attack?
you look okay to me, harry. come over here and sit down. tell me what you been up to.
I am looking at you.
i want you to keep looking right here, okay?
that is what I am doing.
you know dick allen, mesa's casino?
dick allen's a very dear friend of mine. how far you want to go with this?
we are there, harry. you signed markers for a hundred and a half, you are over sixty days past due and you have not told anybody what the problem is.
operator, how do i get las vegas information?
harry, lemme give you some advice.
a marker's like a check, harry.
i know what a marker is.
they do not want to deposit yours and have it bounce. that annoys them. so your dear friend dick allen's been calling, leaving messages on your machine, but you never get back to him. i happen to be in vegas on another matter, and dick asks me as a favor would i look you up. i follow you over here, see you in the window with this woman, looks a lot like that actress karen flores, was in grotesque, except she is not blond anymore...
you are not looking at me, harry.
why do i have to keep looking at you?
i want you to.
you gonna get rough now, threaten me? i make good by tomorrow or get my legs broken?
come on, harry - mesas? the worst they might do is get a judgment against you, uttering a bad check. i can not imagine you want that to happen, man in your position.
fuckin' basketball game.
you make movies, huh?
i produce feature motion pictures, no tv. you mentioned grotesque, that happened to be grotesque part ii that karen flores was in. she starred in all three of my slime creatures releases you might have seen.
karen, say hello to chili palmer. chili, this is karen flores.
karen, it is a pleasure. how you doing?
how did you get in the house?
he is telling me an idea for a movie. it is not bad so far.  sit down, have a drink.  tell karen, let's see what she thinks.
maybe you did not hear me.
the door from the patio, in back.
you broke in?
no, it was open. it was not locked.
what if it was?
you want to hear this idea? it is about a dry cleaner who scams an airline out of three hundred grand. go on, tell her.
you just did.
i mean, the way you told it to me. start at the beginning, we see how the story line develops.
well, basically, this guy owes a shylock fifteen thousand, plus he is a few weeks behind on the vig, the interest you have to pay.
i know what a vig is.
it is the kind of situation, you do not pay, you get your legs broken.
or the guy thinks he could get 'em broken. you have to understand the loan shark's in business the same as anybody else. he is not in it to hurt people. he is in it to make money.
without him. the guy's so out of it he does not even know it is gone.
that is right. as a matter of fact...
the interest is four hundred and fifty dollars a week on fifteen thousand?
that is right. three percent.
but a week. that is a hundred and fifty percent a year.
a hundred and fifty-six. some'll charge you more'n that, go as high as six for five on a short-term loan. so three a week's not too bad.
a real bargain.
keep going.
well, since leo's name was on the passenger list...
a couple days ago by, people from the airliner come to see his wife, tell her how sorry they are and all that their plane exploded and offer her a settlement, the amount based on what he would have earned operating the dry cleaner's the rest of his life. leo had some kind of trouble with his kidneys, so they were giving him about ten years.
how much is the wife offered?
so he comes to l.a...
i do not know about his wanting to meet celebrities, that is something new. but, yeah, he comes to l.a. then after that, i do not know what happens.
that is it? that is your movie?
i said i had an idea, that is all.
that is half a movie, with holes in it. maybe forty minutes of screen time. you do not even have a girl, a female lead, and on top of that, there is no one to sympathize with, you do not have a good guy.
the shylock's the good guy.
the shylock? he is barely mentioned. and it is not believable the wife would get a settlement that fast.
that miami flight that went down, it was on the news every day for about a week. harry must have been busy.
that is where you got the idea?
part of it, yeah.
wait a minute, you are not the guy, are you? the dry cleaner?
you mean, leo?
you would not be talking to me if you were.
I am not the guy, harry.
but you work for the casino?
I am out here looking for leo. i just looked you up as a favor to your dear friend, dick allen.
so you do not work for the casino?
is that right, that is what you do for a living?
what i did till recently.  after i get done here I will think about what I am going to do next.
with your experience, you could always become an agent. right, harry?
yeah, that is what we need. more agents.
well. i got an audition tomorrow.
no problem. you go on off to bed.
what I am saying, harry, is i want you and your new buddy to get out of my house.
oh, yeah, sure.
i imagine in your line of work, there were times you had to get rough, you know, say one of your customers stopped paying.
they always paid.
you pack a gun?
not really.
what does that mean?
maybe a few times i have.
ever shot anybody.
once.
really? you ever been arrested?
I have been picked up a couple times. loan sharking. racketeering. but i was never convicted. I am clean.
racketeering, that covers a lot of ground, does not it?
these guys, my investors, they run a limo service, came to me originally, put money in a few of my pictures and did okay, they are happy. so they come in on another deal - this was back a few months ago when i was planning what would be my next picture, about this band of killer circus freaks that travel around the country leaving bodies in their wake. the characters, there is this seven- hundred-pound fat lady who has a way of seducing guys, gets them in her trailer -
harry, look at me.
you are trying to tell me how you fucked up without sounding stupid, and that is hard to do. let's just get to where you are at, okay? you blew the two hundred grand the limo guys gave you in vegas on a basketball game and you have not told 'em about it. why not?
because they are not the type of guys would take it with any degree of understanding or restraint. the first thing they would do is break my legs.
you got that on the brain, harry. if you are so scared of 'em why did you take their money to vegas to begin with?
because i need half a million to buy a script.
for a movie?
a blockbuster. but quality. no mutants or maniacs. this one's going to be my "driving miss daisy".
what is it called?
"mr. lovejoy".
"mr. lovejoy"? that is the title?
it is not bad when you know what it is about.
murray saffrin, guy who wrote it, did all my grotesque pictures, had it in a drawer for twenty years. he shows it to me one day, tells me he is got a star interested, would i produce it.
who is the star?
two time academy award nominee, martin weir.
martin weir. he played the mob guy that turned snitch in "the cyclone".
one of his best parts.
no, his best part was the cripple gay guy that climbed mt. whitney.
"ride the clouds". good picture.
she looks familiar.
she is a rock star. every day, same time, they come down here and have breakfast. he has the egg white omelet; she has the banana pancakes. he sits facing west so he can see his billboard. she faces east so she has an excuse to wear the shades.
anyway, murray has this shrink, who also happens to be martin's personal trainer's shrink. murray gives the shrink the script and the shrink gives it to martin's trainer who reads it to martin while they work out, and martin flips. loves it.
so what is the problem?
the problem is murray. he and a few other blocked screenwriters went river rafting down the kern a few weeks ago. murray never made it back.
he drown?
heart attack. apparently they brought a couple hookers along.
doris, murray's widow, finds out about this martin weir thing and says since murray and i never had any written contract, she wants five hundred grand for the script.
so you are thinking what if i was to put you next to my dry cleaner. ask him if he wants to invest his money in a movie.
that, or I am thinking what if some tragic accident were to befall the widow saffrin -
I am not going to pop her, harry.
just a thought.
but i could talk to the limo guys. tell 'em to leave you alone for a while. make the point in a way they would understand it.
you do not even know these guys.
harry, i probably know 'em better than you do.
what do you get out of this?
let's see how we get along.
lovejoy sits behind the wheel, watching the bar across the street, getting his video camera ready for action...  what is he doing? following a guy?
read it. it is a grabber.
no leave 'em up, we want the light in their eyes. I will be at the desk... but do not introduce me, let it go, just start talking. you are going to be here, behind 'em when they sit down.
they will be looking at you. they do not know who you are.
that is right, they are wondering, who is this guy? you do not tell 'em. understand, harry? do not tell 'em who i am.
you do not say any more'n you have to. you say, 'well, I am glad you assholes stopped by, so i can set you straight.'
you are kidding, right?
i can hear you, but where the fuck are you, man?
what i been wondering is where is he been.
yeah, where have you been? we have not heard from you lately.
what is this movie you are doing first?
harry, let me answer that.
but first i want to know who I am talking to. am i talking to you, or am i talking to him?
you can talk to me.
that is what i thought. so let me put it this way...
harry, you think we go to see your movies? I have seen better film on teeth. makes no difference to me which one our money's in. so how 'bout you take our twenty points out of "freaks" and put 'em in this other one, "mr. loverboy".
i can not do it.
you positive about that?
it is a different kind of deal.
okay. then be good enough to hand us our money back, or you think about us coming in on this new one.
by friday, man, or you are fuckin' dead as disco.
what?
i do not know, maybe i was not clear. but i thought... i told you to keep your mouth shut.
i had to tell 'em something.
never say anything unless you have to.
you tell me you want these guys off your back. next thing i know, you are saying yeah, maybe they can have a piece of mr. lovejoy. i could not believe my fuckin' ears.
i said I would think about it. what does that mean? in this town, nothing.
that is the difference between you and me, harry. i say what i mean. i want something from someone, i ask 'em straight out. i want martin weir, i go get martin weir. i do not fuck around with his trainer's shrink.
his shrink's trainer.
i hate to say i told you, but i did. i told you do not start nothing with him that time.
you said do not say nothing and i didn't.
no, you just broke his fuckin' nose instead.
you going to start that again? you are just like him, all you got room for in your brain is one fuckin' thing.
all i know is he came by the barber shop, all fuckin' undone, wanting to know where you were staying in vegas. i told him i do not know. i still don't.
how did he know i was in vegas? you tell him?
he already knew it.
yeah, well, I am in l.a. now.
whatta you doing out there?
I am going into the movie business.
what are you talking about? you wanna be a movie star?
I am thinking about producing.
how you going to do that? you do not know shit about making movies.
i do not think the producer has to do much, outside of maybe knowing a writer.
hey, chil? i think you are fulla shit.
hey... karen. how ya' doin'?
what are you doing here?
i wanted to come by, apologize for coming into your house like i did last night.
lemme get this straight, you broke in again to apologize for breaking in before?
no, no... you left the patio door open. you got to stop doin' that, all the nice things you got around here.
yeah, well make sure you lock it on the way out.
rough day on the set?
i spent all day crawling out of a grave. the costumer kept bitching 'cause i was ripping my nylons -
ripped nylons work. makes the shot more real.
...that's what we finally decided.
like in "bride of the mutant", when you played the whole end with that torn top.
you saw that one?
yeah. when you turn to the camera to tell the alien mother that her time on earth is finished... when you give us all that look, joan crawford wishes on her best day she had that much presence. not even in "mildred pierce" - which by the way was a better book than a movie - did crawford even touch the intensity you had in that look.
yeah... that was a good scene. i mean, for a horror movie.
for any movie.
i know I am better than what I have been doing the last ten years, walking around in a tank top and fuck-me pumps, waiting till it is time to scream.
man, can you scream.
yeah. it is a real gift.  I am just saying it would be nice, one time in my career to get the chance to say one great line. you know, like in that bette davis picture, "cabin in the..."
"cotton".
yeah, you know when bette comes up to the guy on the porch, gives him a flirty look and says, 'i'd kiss you, but...'
how come you stopped making movies with harry?
i married martin. that was a full- time job.
you read harry's new one? he says it is the best thing he is ever read.
he must mean after "slime creature 3".
that why harry came over last night? see if you could help him get martin in his movie?
harry's dreaming of a forty-million- dollar production he will never get off the ground with a star he will never sign. with or without my help.
harry told me martin loves it, he flipped.
yeah, well martin is known for his flipping. he flips over a script, and when the time comes to make a deal, he flips out.
tell you what, I will stop by harry's office and pick up a copy for you.
do not go out of your way.
well, i gotta have a talk with leo, my runaway dry cleaner.
right. see how your story ends.
yeah. right.  listen, "touch of evil"'s playing near my hotel. you wanna go check it out? watch charlton heston play a mexican?
i would not think you are that dumb, leave over three hundred grand in the closet, underneath the extra blanket, but i guess you are.
i did not know where else to keep it.  where would you?
you are here a while, what is wrong with a bank?
they report it to the irs.
you do not open an account, leo, you put it in a safe deposit box. dip in whenever you want.
you have been losing.
I am up twelve grand today.
from when? you left vegas with four- fifty?
who told you that?
now you are down to three-ten in the case. you must have cooled off quite a bit since you got here.
how did you know i was here?
here's another tip...
it was fay, was not it, told you about the money. she tell you my whole life history, for christ's sake?
i would not let her if she tried. why I am here, leo, basically, is to save your ass.
how? by taking my money?
you can keep what you won today. that is yours.
it is all mine.
sit down, leo.
you take all my money, but you are borrowing part of it?
at eighteen percent, okay? and do not ask me no more fuckin' questions. I am leaving.
but you will not know where i am. i do not even know where I will be.
I will find you, leo...
how is anyone going to see anything from way up there?
hey, harry.
yeah, chili. hi.  you are fifty feet in the air!
yeah, but whose point of view?
whatta you mean, whose point of view; the audience's point of view.
get down here. i wanna talk to you. come on... right now...  she is going to talk to martin?
all these camera moves and weird angles and shit are gonna distance us from the emotion of the scene.
what 'emotion'? girl just got stabbed in the ear with an ice pick.
she is scared! fear is an emotion!  look, kid, if you remember anything from your time working with harry zimm, let it be the three key words to filmmaking.
yeah? what three words, harry?
pick 'n' save.
hm?
you heard me, pick 'n' save.
so mildred says to the cashier, 'i saw the new streisand picture.'  'god, i just love it at the end when she brushed robert redford's hair off his forehead the way she did when they were together, and the way they gave each other this look that said they still loved each other, but knew they could not be together. that look was so... romantic.'
that is great, harry. so what is the --
what she did not say was, 'i just loved the way the director moved the camera so much it made me fuckin' seasick.' all she cared about was that look. all she remembered was that look. and why do we remember things in movies? because we can see them.
here's your keys, harry.
get the fuck outta my chair.
you understand i knew harry was lying, saying this was not any good, but holding on to it, man, like you have to break his fingers to get it from him.
that is funny, i was just wondering what i was going to break of yours to get it away from you.
I am just explaining to you what I am doing here. case you think i come to rob the place, rip off any of this dusty old shit the man has.
I would never make you as a burglar, not in that outfit.
harry called you his associate, but what does that mean? i never heard your name or read it in variety or the reporter or anyplace.
it is what he said, I am his associate.
you must bring something heavy to the deal.
that is right, me.
says here you are getting martin weir for the part of lovejoy.
yeah, we are getting martin.
no shit, come on. how you gonna do that?
i put a gun right here...  ...and i tell him, 'sign the paper marty or your fuckin' dead.' like that.
i wonder, would that work?  you know who i see for al roxy? harvey keitel. the man could do it in his sleep.
harvey keitel. yeah. maybe. he was pretty good in the movie "fingers".
i missed that one. or, hey, you know who else? morgan freeman. you know morgan?
yeah, morgan freeman. but he is a colored guy.
so what? where is it say in this script he is white? color is what the part needs, man, somebody to do it has some style. the way it is now, ronnie could do it, play himself, some cracked out asshole.  so whatta you think of the script?
title's the first thing's got to go. and the guy's name. i mean, even this writer's name, murray saffrin is better than "lovejoy".
I am with you on that. and do not you think it needs a good female part? increase the romance angle.
there is ilona.
what about her?
get something going there.
with ilona? you know how old ilona is?
she's... young.
young? she is fuckin' nine-years-old, same age as lovejoy's kid. bernie. one she calls bernard. have you read the script?
yeah, i read it. i was just thinking you could make her older. we might even be able to get karen flores.
who?
she is been out of movies a few years, but she is good. real good.
you know how to write one of these?
there is nothin' to know. you have an idea, you write down what you wanna say. then you get somebody to add in the commas and shit where they belong, if you are not positive yourself. maybe fix up the spelling where you have some tricky words... although I have seen scripts where i know words were not spelled right and there was hardly any commas in it at all. so i do not think it is too important. anyway, you come to the last page you write in 'fade out' and that is the end, you are done.
that is all there is to it, huh?
that is all.
i really think i can be of service on this one.
yeah, well, we need a ride somewhere, we will let you know.
you been here the whole time?
i just caught the end.
i got you a copy of the script.
i already read it. harry left a copy at the house.
what do you think?
i think it is not horrible.
i do not like the title. or the main guy's name.
then you have read it?
not yet.
you and harry'll make a great team.  I am going to make a deal with him.
there a part in it for you?
i do not want to act in it, i want to produce it with harry. especially if i help him get martin.
sounds fair.
what do you get out of it?
that why you came over here, to ask me that?
i want to know.
why does anyone want to be in movies?
yesterday, you were a loan shark.
i was never much into it. all that bullshit having to do with respect. it is bad enough having to treat those guys like they are your heroes, having to smile when they make some stupid remark they think's real funny.
and you think the movie business is any different?
yeah well... i like movies. i figure if i help harry make one, I will find out what you have to do outside of have an idea and raise the money. that does not sound too hard. i was in the money business and i get ideas all the time.
hello, doris.
harry zimm. you look like a wet kiss.
well, are not you going to offer me whatever it is you taste like?
come on in.
what a spectacular view.
yeah, lovely. last night i watched two guys carjack a camaro down on the corner of argyle there.  what do you want, doris?
i miss murray, harry.
yeah, me too. he was a helluva good writer. and i would know. i discovered him. made him what he was.
what he was, was a hack, could not get a job writing for anybody but you.  I am being honest. he was a lousy writer, but he was a good husband. i just did not know it until too late.
I am not sure how i feel about this, doris.
you seem to feel fine about it.
i mean morally. murray was my friend.
murray's dead.
so this means you have reconsidered our deal on mr. lovejoy?
no. but now that you mention it, i did talk to a handsome executive at paramount the other day... who just happened to get his hands on the script.
yeah, what did he have to say?
he said if martin's interested, i could get a half a million for it easy. but do not worry, harry, I am still giving you until friday.
how honorable of you.
shit, now someone is got to climb down there and get him.
you did not have to shoot him, bo. we coulda just beat him up some.
you see that? the way the man just went right over?
cat, that is the lamest idea I have ever heard.
yeah, well, I am bored, bear. i wanna make movies.
and i mean high up in it.  that is why harry's going to make mr. lovejoy with me, not chili palmer.
mr. lovejoy? that is cute, bo.
does not matter what it is called, harry's got martin weir and it is going to be big.
they all sound big at the talking stage.
this thing's actually accurate. i bought it for ten bucks from a kid in a lawn chair on sunset...
you were supposed to wait for me with harry at the restaurant.
karen. wow. look at you...
hello, martin.
I am sitting here, I am looking at you and I am having these flashes. you know, flashbacks, of memories.  of us.
really.
yeah and I am wondering, how did it go wrong? how did it all... slip away?
'it' did not slip away, martin, you did... when you went off to fuck nicki in the middle of my birthday party.
yeah. that was a good party.
you know, marty, you were good in the cyclone.
martin. it was a beautiful role. all i had to do was find the character's center, the stem I would used to wind him up and he would play, man, he would play.
well, you had it down cold. watching you in the movie, if i did not know better I would have to believe you were a made guy and not acting. even the fink part. i never met a fink and i hope to god i never do, but how you did it must be the way finks act.
a few weeks before shooting, i went back to bensonhurst, just to listen to you guys. see, I am italian, but i grew up in tarzana. so i wanted to pick up your rhythms of speech.
we talk different?
it is more like your attitude. your tone, your speech patterns demonstrate a certain confidence in yourselves, in your opinions, your indifference to conventional views.
you mean like we do not give a shit.
yeah. kinda. anyway, once i have the authentic sounds of speech, the rhythms, man, the patois, i can actually begin to think the way those guys do, get inside their heads.
so you do not know what I am thinking.
no, i don't. though i have to say I am curious.
so you want to know.
if you would like to tell me, yeah.
I am thinking of a movie.
one of mine?
one we are producing.
with what? wiseguy money?
martin, I am not connected to those people anymore. not since i walked out of a loanshark operation in miami.
what happened? the pressure got to you?
pressure? I am the one applied the pressure.
oh, for christ's sake -
i know. I am doing shylock instead of a shylock. okay, what is my motivation? the acquisition of money. to collect. inflict pain if i have to.
guy owes me fifteen large and takes off, i go after him. the fuck you think i do?
martin, look at me.
I am looking at you.
no, i want you to look at me the way I am looking at you. put it in your eyes, 'you're mine, asshole,' without saying it.
like this?
what you are telling me, you are tired? you wanna go to bed?
wait. how about this?
now you are squinting like you need glasses.
how about this?
that is not bad.
that is what i think of you, asshole. nothing.
i believe it.
i turn it on when i confront the guy.
yeah, but you have not found him yet.  the guy took off for las vegas.
how do i know that?
bo. I am great. listen, I am expecting some people -
you must be makin' some big deals, doin' lunch in a place like this?
I am working on a few things.
yeah, i hear you bagged martin weir for mr. lovejoy.
boy, this town. word gets around, does not it?
last night. when he called me over to your office to talk about it.
chili palmer showed you my script?
yeah, i was wondering why he should do that.
the wife sues the airline.  this is a gutsy babe.
good-looking, too.  like karen.
so when do i meet up with the husband and give him the look?
it is not that simple. you have to be careful. there is another guy that comes along, a hard-on you owe some money to. a mob guy. wants to take you out anyway, on account of a past situation.
okay. I am listening.
at that point, basically, that has to be it.
you are not going to tell me the rest?
well actually, martin the movie we came to talk about is mr. lovejoy.
yeah. we understand you read the script and like it... a lot.
listen, harry, how would you like to get your hands on five hundred grand? you pay me back at your convenience, no interest.
you serious?
all i want in return is to work on the movie with you. fact i already got some ideas on how to fix it up.
how 'bout another one for mr. zimm. a double.
you are going to just give me five hundred grand?
we will talk about that, harry. but first i got to know, how did you hook up with chili palmer.
lemme talk to buddy, set up a meeting.
buddy?
lufkin. his... agent.
yeah, karen knows him.
but you are interested?
I am intrigued, yeah. you know what might help you, take a look at the cylone again, the way a visual fabric is maintained even while the metaphor plays on different levels. hey -  this your ride, chili?
very nice...
yeah, i like it, I am high up, i can see everything, you know? it is the cadillac of minivans.
what is that?
compass.
wow.  mind if i take it for a spin?
he was watching letterman, huh? sneaky, that chili palmer.  so, he ever find this dry cleaner, the one with all that money on him?
leo, i do not know.
assuming i go along with this, when can i have the five hundred?
whenever you want it. the money's in hundred dollar bills inside one of those jock bags, you know? in a locker at the airport, waiting to be picked up.
the airport.
it was waiting out there on another deal, one that did not go through; one you do not want to know about.
i do not know.
it is not the kind of thing you do.
c-18.
that is the magic number.
harry, what are you still doing with those guys?
he happens to be loaning me five hundred grand, no strings, i write any kind of agreement i want.
is he giving you a check or cash?
cash. it happens to be waiting right at this moment in a locker at the airport.
a locker at the airport? jesus christ, harry. tell me you are not really that stupid.
the guy's setting you up. you pulled out of their freaks deal so he is paying you back.
okay, harry, I am wrong. you are not the one he is setting up.
i mean, at least bo's invested in three of my movies.
harry, we spoke with martin.
'we?'
chili and me.
really.
yeah, he wants us to talk to buddy, set up a meeting.
a meeting with who? you and karen?
harry -
man's in town two days, thinks he is david o. fucking selznick.
so how 'bout it, mr. selznick, do i make my deal with bo? or you going to finally help me out, have a word with your dry cleaner when you find him.
i found him.
forget about leo's money, harry.
you have it?
harry, if i gave you leo's money you would have ray bones all over your ass and then you would be in a whole new kinda trouble.
who?
ray barboni. guy from miami, owns leo now that momo died.
who the fuck is momo? jesus, these fucking names...
tell you what, harry, tomorrow morning, when the airport's crowded, I will go check it out. if i do not see a problem, I will pick up the money...
maybe i oughta talk to this ray bones character myself. see if he wants to invest in my movie.
do not waste your time, harry. the guy's not much of a movie fan. now c'mon, gimme the key.
ray barboni?
who is this?
are you the guy they called ray bones?
depends. who is this?
who is this? I am the one telling you the way it is, okay, asshole? that is who i am. now you want your three hundred grand or do not you?
what three hundred grand?
the three hundred grand a guy named leo devoe scammed off an airline. the three hundred grand chili palmer now has in his possession.
hello? you there?
yeah, I am here. i just do not like the anonymous crap. it means your either chickenshit or not for real.
yeah? well, trust me. I am very for real.
okay. so who are you?
i work for harry zimm, alright?
who?
harry zimm. the man happens to be a major hollywood player.
never heard of him.
maybe that is because you have never been out've fuckin' miami, dipshit. maybe it is time you got on a plane, flew out to l.a. and took a meeting with mr. zimm.
so, what, this zimm guy asking for some kinda finders fee, that what we are talking about here?
hey, zimm does not ask for dick. zimm tells you the way it is... or else.
or else what?
or else use your fucking imagination.
you live in miami?
that is right.
what are you doing in los angeles?
I am in the movie business.
you are an investor, is that it?
I am a producer.
you have a card in here?
not yet. i just started.
your wife a lakers fan?
i am. I am a fan of everything that is l.a. i love it out here.
by the way, you recall the number of the locker you used?
it was c... i do not know, sixteen or seventeen, one of those. why? you looking for anyway, a bomb or something?
something should not be there.
why do not you get the attendant to open all the lockers and take a look. maybe you will find it.
that is the idea. I will think about it.
that is what I would do.  make sure i got the right guy next time.
get him out've here.
i do not know how i could have missed you with that shirt on. it is the same as the other one you had only the hibiscus are a different color. right?
so you did not have the key with you.
you think I would be standing here? you set somebody up and you want it to work, it has to be a surprise. can you remember that?
you spotted them, huh?
what, did you see it work in some movie you got beat up in?
i have to ask you for that key.
what, the setup did not work so you want the key back?
catlett says if you do not open the locker the deal's off.
you serious? this is how you guys do business? i can not believe you are not dead.
look, there is no fuckin' way I am going to give you the key, outside of you point a gun at my head. then we might have something to talk about. now step away from the car.
i do not need a gun. where is it? if it is not on you, it is around here someplace.
what are you hanging around with a guy like that for? you were in the movies, right? a stuntman? what is he ever done he can talk about? you feel okay?
not too bad.
how 'bout when you went down the stairs?
i think i pulled my quadriceps.
so... how many movies you been in?
about sixty.
no shit? what are some of 'em?
he knew it was a set up. he was ready for it.
so where is the money?
i guess still in the locker.
you guess? you mean you do not know?
i mean i do not care.
where is my nephew?
your who?
yayo. where is he?
he is my sister's kid. no papa. not too bright. personally, i think he is a retard. i only gave him the job as a favor for my sister, you understand?
sure. family. i know how that goes.
he comes up here with our product. he suppose to come home with five hundred thousand dollars. he never shows up. meanwhile, my sister's going crazy calling me all the time worried about him. me, i just wanna know what happened to my focking money.
well, i do not know. i gave the man his money, sent him on his way.
you gave him the money?
i gave him a key to a locker that had the money in it.
now why would you do that? put the money in a locker?
because there were a zillion dea guys hanging around the terminal.
a zillion, huh? that is a lot.
maybe your nephew panicked, took off.
where is your partner, the jumpy one? why is not he here?
he is around someplace.
i hear he is around palm springs. dealing our product. product we sold to you for five hundred thousand dollars.  why do you keep talking to me bullshit? i think maybe i have ramon and ceasar staple your tongue to your chin. what do you think?
you know, you speak very good english, mr. escobar.
i went to uc san diego.  we are going to spend the weekend at the universal sheraton. we are going to take the tour. see the shark. check out the miami vice action spectacular. after, we will come here, get our money.
you get to town, you go straight to the bank, raid the limo account.
I am already in town, but it do not matter. we got dick in the bank. we dumped it all in harry's movie.
what I am sayin' is the man wants his money and he wants it now.
where is leo devoe? where is chili palmer? where is my fuckin' money?
ray. look at me.
what?
look at me, ray.
you say look at you?
that is correct. look at me.
who the fuck are you?
ray barboni. from miami.
what, like that is supposed to mean something to me?
the man you are steppin' on belongs to me and my partner.
he owes me money.
get in line, bro.
i do not like waiting.
tough shit, bro. this am not miami. you want something, talk to me.
hey, fuckball, i do not need your permission. l.a.'s an open city.
you a quick draw... 'bro?' you better be, your piece stuck way down in your belt like that.
whatta you got there... some kinda pop nine, the fuckin' fiat of guns, always jammin' at the wrong time.
that was martin. he wants to have lunch tomorrow. that is, if you can make it.
depends, who pays?
definitely not martin. movie stars never pick up the check. they have no idea what things cost. most of them do not know their zip code and a lot do not even know their own phone number.
how did you meet martin anyway?
not unlike the way nicki met him. except it was a wrap party. why?
i do not know, I am just havin' some trouble seeing you two together.
you do not like martin much, do you?
oh, i like him. i just think he's... short. i mean, he is a good actor and all, but I am wondering what it was exactly you saw in marty.
for starters, marty was not martin back then.
so what about your story. you thought of a title yet?
how 'bout get shorty? except that is not a movie. that is real life.
how 'bout chili's hollywood adventure.
that is a different story. I am still working on that one, you know, getting the visual fabric just right.  although I have added to it.
yeah?
yeah. there is a girl in it now.
really.
i think you could be an actor. i know you are acting sometimes, but you do not show it.
you thought i was faking?
no. i do not mean that. i just meant in general.
oh.
you do not mean a movie star? more like a character actor?
whichever. let's talk about it tomorrow.
i mean i could see myself in movies robert de niro had been in. or i could maybe do an al pacino movie, play a hard-on. but i could not see myself in ones, like say the one where the three guys get stuck with a baby. they do not know how to take care of it and you see these big grown-up assholes acting cute -
hey, chili? look at me.
harry... my god...
what happened?
you see the paper?
i seen it, but i do not believe it. says harry shot ronnie five times. four to the chest and one through his foot.
his foot. jeez, poor ronnie...
yeah, I am really going to miss him.
listen, tonight, later on, i got one for you does not involve any heavy work. i want you to go have a look around chili palmer's hotel room.
i can't. i got to take farrah to satan's place down in costa mesa.
who?
her mother. not that it matters because i do not work for you no more. i quit. i just wanted to come by, tell you to your face so there is no misunderstanding.
whoa... this is the man used to jump offa high buildings?
into air bags. there is no cushion under what you are doing. I am out of it, cat. I am done.
bear. the colombians are in l.a. seems they all upset about their money. that am not enough, as a bonus, it turns out the yoyo was escobar's nephew.
that is your problem. you shouldn't've smoked the guy.
he is going to plea-deal his way out. give up this ace stunt man now one of the west coast dope kings, if they go easy on the cat.
come here, farrah...
i heard in the federal joints they let you spend an extra five minutes at the glass with your daddy on father's day.
farrah. come here.
after this one, I am out, cat, you understand? this is the last time we talk to each other.
remember harry's story about the dry cleaner palmer was after? guy who stole the three hundred grand from the airline?
what about him?
i was thinking tonight you could go have a look around palmer's hotel room while i go check out karen flores' place. see if he has not stashed it somewhere.
and if we do not happen to find it under palmer's mattress or inside karen flores' undie drawer? what then?
just do what i told you and meet me back here at midnight.
what kinda food they serve at this ivy place anyway?
continental, but it does not matter. martin will not order from the menu.
why not?
because a movie star can never order straight from the menu. they have to think of something they have to have that is not on the menu.
harry, what are you doing? you are supposed to be in the hospital.
yeah, harry, you look like you belong in one of your horror movies.
hi, sweetface. you look great. and mmmmm, you smell good, too.
thanks.
which two?
once their lives are in danger and you have the mob guy coming after them, it not only heightens the tension, it adds a wistful element to their love.
mob guy?
i have to consider, i mean, as the mob guy, this is another man's wife I am sleeping with.
and after all, you have such morals.
i have to run. but what i hope to see, they begin to have misgivings about wanting the money. it becomes their moral dilemma and they try to rationalize keeping it, but in the end they can't. can they?
what money?
the three hundred large. what other money is there?  i should keep quiet, i know, till I have read the script, but I have got a feeling about this one. I am that shylock.
shylock?
whatta you think, chill?
that is not bad. i think you got it down.
you sure?
he is doing the same thing you did to him, playing letterman on tv.
it is not dave. it is a movie.
are you going down?
i do not know.
you are as bad as harry...
I will go. I will go.
i need the money.
what money?
the three hundred grand you got from a little dry cleaner named leo.
lemme see if i got this right, you break into karen flores' house, ask me for three hundred grand, does not even belong to you?
i can not believe the way you guys do business out here. i can not believe how fucked up your organization is.
tell you what...
how 'bout i give you to three, then i organize your fuckin' brains all over the wall back there. one...
what, you gonna shoot me now, bo?
in just a second. two...
i do not believe this.
three.
karen? you okay?
she can not talk right now.
that is a nice scream, lady. you oughta be in movies.
alright, bo. you can have the money... but it is not here. i have to go get it.
okay. fine. the meantime, I will just hang on to her for safe keeping.
you know laurel canyon?
I will find it.
I am at 8150 wonderland avenue. it is right off laurel.
gimme an hour.
you get the money?
no. what is this?
plan b. here ya go, honey...
trade for what?
the money. fuck. i gotta think...
you get life for kidnapping.
calm down, bear...
calm down? we are going away for life and you tell me to calm down?
hell, why not just shoot her? why not shoot everybody. fuckin' shoot me. shoot the fuckin' president?
do not fade on me now, bear. not unless you wanna hold farrah on your lap in a room fulla felons.
where is karen?
in the can. that the money?
you okay?
guy's got a fucking pink toilet, for christ's sake.
she is great. gimme the money.
first you and me gotta get a couple things straight.
you broke in my house and i have a witness to it.
what?
only this time, no john wayne and dean martin shooting the bad guys in el dorado.
it was rio bravo. robert mitchum was the drunk in el dorado, dean martin in rio bravo, practically the same part. john wayne, he also did the same thing in both. he played john wayne.
man, i can not wait for you to be dead.
bear, you are not really going to -
and that is for the airport.
hey, he should have a weapon, a knife or something.
we will get it later.
you keep hittin' him like that, he am not going to look like he broke in anymore, he going to look like someone beat him up and then shot him.
you are right.
karen! what the fuck are you doing?!
oh, shit... I am sorry... i thought that was... I am so sorry...
were you scared up there?
you bet.
you do not act like it?
i was scared then, not now. how long you want me to be scared?
I will be right back.
go get your stuff.
how did you get in here?
i told them i was you. i acted stupid and they believed me.
so what brings you to l.a., bones?
do not insult me. get up and turn around.
why would i do that?
'cause the guy's a customer now, stupid. his ass belongs to me.
i checked the bag at the airport, when i came.
yeah? which terminal?
sovereign.
you found leo, did not you? took the poor asshole's money and put it in a locker, ready to go.  why have not you left?
i like it here.
look, there is no reason you and i should not get along. forget all the bullshit from before - i do not even remember how it started. you took a swing at me over some fuckin' thing, whatever it was - forget it. you owe me some money, right? forget that too. but, you do not say a fuckin' word about this to anybody. it is strictly between you and me, right?
whatever you want, ray.
what took you so long?
could not find my toothbrush.
