frank, do you think you could give me a hand with these bags?
I am not a doorman, miss barrett.  I am a building superintendent.
you are also a human being, frank.
okay, okay.  it is not my job, but what the hell.  I will do you a favor.  he takes the grocery bags from her.
thank you, frank.  I will get the hang of this eventually.
hiya, oscar.  what do you say, slugger?
that is a good-looking kid you got there, ms. barrett.
thank you, frank.  oh, are you ever going to fix the radiator in my bedroom?  i asked you last week.
did not i do it?
no, you didn't, frank.
okay, that is no problem.
that is exactly what you said last week.
ready?
I am ready.
then let's do it.
that is it, ray.  I have had it.  no more parties. I am tired of taking abuse from over-privileged nine-year-olds.
come on, winston.  we can not quit now.  the holidays are coming up.  it is our best season.
give it up, ray.  you are living in the past. ghostbusters does not exist anymore.  in a year these kids will not even remember who we are.
ungrateful little yuppie larvae.  after all we did for this city.
yeah, what did we do, ray?  the last real job we had we bubbled up a hundred foot marshmallow man and blew the top three floors off an uptown highrise.
yeah, but what a ride.  you can not make a hamburger without chopping up a cow.
hi, welcome back to the 'world of the psychic,' I am peter venkman and I am chatting with my guest, author, lecturer and of course, psychic, milton anglund.  milt, your new book is called the end of the world.  is not that kind of like writing about gum disease.  yes, it could happen, but do you think anybody wants to read a book about it?
well, i think it is important for people to know that the world is in danger.
okay, so can you tell us when it is going to happen or do we have to buy the book?
i predict that the world will end at the stroke of midnight on new year's eve.
this year?  that is cutting it a little close, is not it?  i mean, just from a sales point of view, the book just came out, right?  so you are not even looking at the paperback release for maybe a year.  and it is going to be at least another year after that if the thing has movie-of-the-week or mini-series potential. you would have been better off predicting 1992 or even '94 just to be safe.
this is not just some money-making scheme!  i did not just make up the date.  i have a strong psychic belief that the world will end on new year's eve.
well, for your sake, i hope you are right.  but i think my other guest may disagree with you. elaine, you had another date in mind?
according to my sources, the world will end on february 14, in the year 2016.
valentine's day.  that is got to be a bummer. where did you get that date, elaine?
i received this information from an alien.  i was at the paramus holiday inn, i was having a drink in the bar when he approached me and started talking.  then he must have used some sort of ray or a mind control device because he made me follow him to his room and that is where he told me about the end of the world.
your alien had a room in the holiday inn?
it may have been a room on the spacecraft made up to look like a room in the holiday inn.  i can not be sure, peter.
no, you can't, and i think that is the whole problem with aliens; you just can not trust them. you may get some nice ones occasionally like starman or e.t., but most of them turn out to be some kind of lizard.  anyway, we are just about out of time.  next week on 'world of the psychic,' hairless pets.  until then, this is peter venkman saying ...  ... good night.
can i help you?
yeah, you can get your hand off my chest.
I am jack hardemeyer.  I am the mayor's assistant. what can i do for you?
I am an old friend of the mayor's.  i just want to say hello to him.
i know who you are, doctor venkman.  busting any ghosts lately?
no, that is what i want to talk to the mayor about.  we did a little job for the city a while back and we ended up getting sued, screwed and tattooed by deskworms like you.
look, you stay away from the mayor.  next fall, barring a disaster, he is going to be elected governor of this state and the last thing we need is for him to be associated with two-bit frauds and publicity hounds like you and your friends.  you read me?
oh, yes, i got in a little late this morning, janosz.
you know, you are really doing very good work here.  i think soon you may be ready to assist me in some of the more important restorations.
thank you, janosz.  I have learned a lot here, but now that my baby's a little older, i was hoping to rejoin the orchestra.
we will be very sorry to lose you.  perhaps i could take you to lunch today?
actually, I am not eating lunch today.  i have an appointment.  in fact, I would better go.
every day i ask you, and every day you have got something else to do.  do i have bad breath or something?
I am sorry.  perhaps some other time.
okay, I will take a raincheck on that.
hundreds of people.  believe me, i did not imagine this.
I am not saying you did.  in science we always look for the simplest explanation.
what are you working on, egon?
I am trying to determine whether human emotional states have a measurable effect on the psychomagnetheric energy field.  it is a theory ray and i were working on when we had to dissolve ghostbusters.
we will do the happiness index next.  I would like to bring ray in on your case, if it is all right with you.
okay, whatever you think -- but not venkman.
oh no.
do you ever see him?
occasionally
how is he these days?
venkman?  i think he was borderline for a while there.  then he crossed the border.
does he ever mention me?
no.  not that i can recall.
this is my address and telephone number. will you call me?
certainly.
egon, I would rather you did not mention any of this to peter if you do not mind.
i won't.
thank you.
who was that?
some crank.  looking for goat hooves.  come up with anything?
this one's interesting.  berlin, 1939, a flower cart took off by itself and rolled approximately half a kilometer over level ground.  three hundred eyewitnesses.
you might want to check those duke university mean averaging studies on controlled psychokinesis.
good idea.
oh, hello, perhaps you could help me.  I am looking for an aerosol love potion i could spray on a certain penthouse pet that would make her unconditionally submit to an unusual personal request.
oh, hiya, pete.
so, no goat hooves, huh?
i knew that voice sounded familiar.  what is up?  how is it going?
nowhere -- fast.  why do not you lock up and buy me a sub?
uh, i can't.  I am kind of working on something.
egon!
hello, venkman.
how've you been?  how is teaching?  i bet those science chicks really dig that big cranium of yours, huh?
i think they are more interested in my epididymis.
i do not even want to know where that is.
great.  so what are you guys working on?
oh, just checking something for an old friend.
who?
who?  just -- someone we know.
oh, ray --
who?  who?  who?
aaah!  nobody!  i can not tell you!
who, ray?
dana!  dana barrett!
hi, ray.  it is good to see you.  thanks for coming.
no problem.  always glad to help -- and hug.
hi, egon.
hello, peter.
you know, dana, I am very very hurt that you did not call me first.  I am still into all this stuff, you know.  have not you ever seen my show?
i have.  that is why i did not call you first.
i can see that you are still very bitter about us, but in the interest of science, I am going to give it my best shot.  let's go to work, boys.
so what happened to mr. right?  i hear he ditched you and the kid and moved to europe.
he did not "ditch" me.  we had some problems, he got a good offer from an orchestra in england and he took it.
he ditched you.  you should have married me, you know.
you never asked me, and every time i brought it up you would get drowsy and fall asleep.
men are very sensitive, you know.  we need to feel loved and desired, too.
well, when you started introducing me as "the old ball and chain," that is when i left.
i may have a few personal problems but one thing i am is a total professional.
I would like to have a stool specimen
yeah, you would.  is that for personal or professional reasons?
what do you think?
there is no doubt about it.  he is got his father's looks.  the kid is ugly -- extremely ugly.  and smelly.  you stink!  it is just horrible.  you are the stinkiest baby i ever smelled.  what is his name?
his name is oscar.
oscar!  you poor kid!
peter, this is serious.  i need to know if you think there is anything unusual about him.
unusual?  i do not know.  i have not had a lot of experience with babies.
I will do it.
I will supervise.
well, holmes, what do you think?
it is an interesting one, pete.  if anything was going on it is totally subdued now.
what now, brainiac?
i think we should see if we can find anything abnormal on the street.
finding something abnormal on the street should not be too hard.
brings back a lot of sweet memories, does not it?  there is our old cash machine.  and the dry cleaners we used to go to.  and the old video store.  we really had some good times, did not we?
we definitely had a moment or two.
that is where the buggy stopped.
okay, let's take a look.
is this the spot?
a little to the left.  right there!  that is where it stopped.
nothing.  not a trace.
why do not we try the giga-meter?
what is that?
egon and i have been working on a gauge to measure psychomagnetheric energy in gevs - giga electron volts.
that is a thousand million electron volts.
i knew that.
i think we hit the honeypot, boys.  there is something brewing under the street.
peter, do you think maybe i have some genetic problem or something that makes me vulnerable to these supernatural things.
i, vigo, the scourge of carpathia, the sorrow of moldavia, command you.
command me, lord.
on a mountain of skulls in a castle of pain, i sat on a throne of blood.  what was will be, what is will be no more.  now is the season of evil.  find me a child that i might live again.
i love this.  we are onto something really big.  i can smell it, ray.  we are going to make some headlines with this one.
hey, hey, hey, stresshound!  are you nuts? if anybody found out about this we would be in serious trouble.  the judge could not have been clearer - no ghostbusting.
relax.  we are going to keep this whole thing nice and quiet, low key, no profile.
you were supposed to help me with this.
you need the exercise.
the new york pneumatic railway.  it was an experimental subway system.  fan-forced air-trains, built around 1870.
this is about as deep as you can go under manhattan without digging your own hole.
what is the reading?
janosz?
hello, dana.  i happened to be in the neighborhood and i thought I would stop by to see if everything's all right with you -- you know, with the blackout and everything? are you okay?  is the baby all right?
do you need anything?  you want me to come in?
no, everything's fine.  honestly.  thanks anyway.
okay, just thought I would check.  good night, dana.  sleep well.  do not let the bedbugs bite you.
good night, janosz.
seems like a pretty open-minded guy, huh?
his nickname is "the hammer."
i wish i could stay.  i feel personally responsible for you being here.
you are personally responsible.  if i can get conjugal rights, will you visit me at sing sing?
please do not say that.  you will not go to prison.
do not worry about me.  I am like a cat.
you mean you cough up hairballs all over the rug?
I am el gato.  i always land on my feet.
good luck.
thanks.
hey, i did not imagine it.  there must have been ten thousand gallons of it down there.
it may be ebbing and flowing from some tidal source.
the witness is leading him.  sustained.
okay, let me rephrase that question.  did not you once coach a basketball team for underprivileged children?
yes, i did.  we were city champs.
objection.  irrelevant and immaterial.
sustained.  mr. tully, do you have anything to ask this witness that may have some bearing on this case?
do i?
so, dr. venkman, please explain to the court why it is you and your co-defendants took it upon yourselves to dig a big hole in the middle of the street.
seventy-seventh and first avenue has so many holes already we did not think anyone would notice.
keep that up, mister, and I will find you in contempt.
sorry, your honor, but when somebody sets me up like that i can not resist.
I will ask you again, dr. venkman.  why were you digging the hole?  and please remember that you are under oath.
i had my fingers crossed when they swore me in, but I am going to tell you the truth. there are things in this world that go way beyond human understanding, things that can not be explained and that most people do not want to know about anyway.  that is where we come in.
so what are you saying?  that the world of the supernatural is your special province?
no, i guess I am just saying that shit happens and somebody has to deal with it.
your honor, may i approach the bench?
yes.
can i have some of your water?
get on with it, counselor!
your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the --  audience.  i do not think it is fair to call my clients frauds.  okay, the blackout was a big problem for everybody.  i was stuck in an elevator for about three hours and i had to go to the bathroom the whole time, but i do not blame them because once i turned into a dog and they helped me.  thank you.
that is it?  that is all you have to say?
did i forget something?
you have got to do something!
who are they?
they are the scoleri brothers.  i tried them for murder.  they were electrocuted up at ossining in '48.  now they want to kill me.
maybe they just want to appeal.
these boys are not playing around.
you have got to stop them.  please!
geez, i forgot how heavy these things are.
okay, let's heat 'em up!
what is it, honey?
it is that darn ghost again!  i do not know what to do anymore.  he just will not leave us alone.  i guess we will just have to move.
do not worry.  we are not moving.  he is.
who are you going to call?
ghostbusters.
I am ray --
I am peter --
I am egon --
and we are the ...
careful, winston.  he is a mean one.  and to celebrate our grand reopening, we are giving you twice the value with our special half-price 'welcome back' service plan.
hold on, ray!  half-price!  have you gone crazy?
i guess so, pete, because that is not all. tell them what else we have got, egon.
you know he ran that last lap in under six minutes?
if he was not dead he would be an olympic prospect.
so this is what you do, huh?
oh, hello, peter.
you are really good, you know.
i did not paint it.  I am just cleaning it. it is an original ver meer.  it is worth about ten million dollars.
I am sure you did not come here just to talk about art.
as a matter of fact, i stopped by to tell you that i have not forgotten your problem and that we are still on the case.
dana, are not you going to introduce me to your friend?
oh, I am sorry.  this is peter venkman. peter, janosz poha.
pleasure to meet you.  I have seen you on television.
how are you?  what is that you are working on, johnny?
it is a painting I am restoring for the new byzantine exhibition.  it is a self-portrait of prince vigo, the carpathian.  he ruled most of carpathia and moldavia in the 17th century.
too bad for the moldavians.

he was also a lunatic and a genocidal madman. i hate this painting.  I have felt very uncomfortable since they brought it up from storage.
yeah, it is not the kind of thing you would want to hang in the rec room.  you know what it needs?  a fluffy little white kitten in the corner.
we do not go around altering valuable paintings, dr. venkman.
well, I would make an exception in this case if i were you.
I will let you get back to it.  nice meeting you.
my pleasure.
i may be wrong, but i think you have got a little crush on this guy.
good-bye, peter.
I would like to stay, but i really do not have time to hang around here.  I will call you.  later, johnny!
oh good, you are here.  spengler and i have something really amazing to show you.
it is not that thing you do with your nostrils, is it?
and now you are going to eat it?
no, I am just restoring it to its normal state.
this is what you do with your spare time?
this is an incredible breakthrough, venkman. a psychoreactive substance!  whatever this is, it clearly responds to human emotional states.
'mood slime.'  we ought to bottle this stuff and sell it.
we have found it at every event site we have been to lately.
you mean this stuff actually feeds on 'bad vibes'?
like a goat on garbage.
we are running tests to see if we can get an equally strong positive reaction.
what kind of tests?
well, we sing to it, we talk to it, we say supportive, nurturing things --
you are not sleeping with this stuff, are you?
does it have any favorites?
it likes all the sappy stuff: 'cumbaya,' 'everything is beautiful,' 'it's a small world' -- but it loves jackie wilson.
i do not care what you say.  this could be a major christmas gift item.
right, and the first time someone gets mad, their toaster will eat their hand.
so we will put a warning on the label.
I am sorry.  were you on your way out?
no, i just got in -- a couple hours ago. come on in.  are we having a pajama party?
peter, the bathtub tried to eat oscar.
you know, if anyone else told me that, I would have serious doubts.  but coming from you, i can not honestly say I am surprised.
i must be losing my mind.  at the museum today i could have sworn that terrible painting of vigo looked right at me.
who could blame him?  were you wearing this nightgown?
i do not know what to do anymore.
I will get ray and egon to check out the bathtub.  you better stay here.
this is joe namath's old number, you know. you could get a lot of chicks with this. just do not pee in it.
peter, what about the bathtub?
we will take care of that.  ray, pete.  listen, get over to dana's right away ... her bathtub pulled a fast one -- tried to eat the kid.
it was full of this awful pink ooze.
sounds like another slime job ... no, they are all right.  they are here now ... right ... let me know.
bathroom's right here -- let me just tidy up a few things.
peter, this is very nice, but you do not have to do any of this, you know.
be careful on that sofa -- it is a butt-biter. but the bed's good and i just changed the sheets so if you get tired, feel free.  in fact, i think you should definitely plan on spending the night here.
really?  and how would we handle the sleeping arrangements?
for me it is best if i sleep on my side and you spoon up right behind me with your arms around me.  if we go the other way I am afraid your hair will be getting in my face all night.
how about you on the sofa and me in bed with the baby.
or we could do that.
thank you.  poor baby.  i think i should put him down now.
I will put him down for you.  you are way too short!  and your belly-button sticks out!  you are nothing but a burden to your poor mother!
did you find anything at dana's?
nothing.  just some mood-slime residue in and around the bathtub.  but we did turn up some interesting stuff on this vigo character you mentioned.  i found the name vigo the carpathian in leon zundinger's magicians, martyrs and madmen.  listen to this:
"vigo the carpathian, born 1505, died 1610 --"
a hundred and five years?  he really hung on, did not he.
and he did not die of old age either.  he was poisoned, stabbed, shot, hung, stretched, disemboweled, drawn and quartered.
i guess he was not too popular at the end there.
no, not exactly a man of the people.  "also known as vigo the cruel, vigo the torturer, vigo the despised, and vigo the unholy."
this guy was a bad monkey.  he dabbled in all the black arts, and listen to this prophecy.  just before his head died, his last words were, "death is but a door, time is but a window.  I will be back."
that is it?  "i'll be back?"
it is a rough translation from the moldavian.
you got a flux and a half.
now if you do not want to be the --  -- fifth person ever to die in meta-shock from a planar rift, i suggest you get down behind that desk and do not move until we give you the signal "stabilize -- all clear."
dr. venkman?  dana is not here.
i know.
then why have you come?
we got a major creep alert and we are just going down the list.  your name was first.
you know, i never got to ask you.  where you from, johnny?
the upper west side.
this is the one that looked at dana.
it must be the chemical fumes in the studio. people start imagining things --
I am going to rule out the glue-sniffing theory.  if she says it looked at her, it looked at her.  hey, you!  vigie!  look at me.  I am talking to you.  hey!  look at me when I am talking to you.
beautiful, beautiful.  work with me, baby. just have fun with it.  okay, he is playing it cool.  let's finish up and get out of here.
I will get one more reading.
now that is one ugly dude.
huh?  what?
you finished here?
what?  yeah.
are you all right?  you coming down with something?
no, I am fine.  i just got light-headed for a second there.  let's go.
so you see, everything is in order, is it not?
not.  do not leave town and report any change in your address to the proper authorities. we will be back.
there is definitely something going on in that studio.  the pke levels were max-plus and the giga-meter was showing all red.
I would put my money on that vigo character.
are you telling me how to drive?
no, i just thought --
well do not think!
what happened?
you just picked up three penalty points on your driver's license.
are you all right?
yeah, i guess so.  it was the strangest thing.  i knew what i was doing but i could not stop.  this really terrible feeling came over me and -- i do not know -- i just felt like driving into that tree and ending it all.  whew!  sorry, boys.
are you all squeaky clean now?
yes, I am very clean.  did they find anything at my apartment?
they did not find anything?  in the bathtub ... the pink ooze ... nothing?  so, what do i do now?
now you get dressed and we go out.  i got a babysitter and everything.  trust me, you need it.
I am not here to date.  i can not leave oscar in a strange place with someone i do not know.
it is janine melnitz, from my staff.  she is one of my most valuable employees.
does she know anything about babies?
janine melnitz, are you kidding?  do i have a vase?  i brought some of your clothes.  wear something intriguing.  i brought along some interesting possibilities.
okay, but it is not a date.  it is a dinner.
did you happen to see some shirts on the floor in here?
i put them in your hamper.  i thought they were dirty.
i have a hamper?  next time ask me first, okay.  i have more than two grades of laundry.  there are lots of subtle levels between clean and dirty.
oh migod!  I am sorry.  i did not mean to do that.  it was an accident.
what are you doing up here?
i was trying to get that smelly green thing. the guys asked me to help out.  I am like the fifth ghostbuster.
why would you want to be a ghostbuster if you are already an accountant?
oh, no, it is just if one of the guys calls in sick or gets hurt.
have you made any plans yet?  you know tomorrow is new year's eve.
no, i celebrate at the beginning of my corporate tax year which is march first. that way i beat the crowds.
that is very practical.  i hate going out on new year's eve, too.
well, good night, louis.
janine, do you feel like maybe getting something to eat on the way home?
I would like to, but i told dr. venkman I would babysit.  do you want to babysit with me?
oh, sure, that sounds great.
do not tell me, let me guess.  all-you-can-eat barbecue rib night at the sizzler?
we are going down into the sewer system to see if we can trace the source of the psycho-reactive slime flow.  we thought you might want to come along.
darn it!  i wish I would known you were going. I am stuck with these damn dinner reservations.
you know, animals and lower life forms often anticipate major disasters.  given the new magnetheric readings we could see a tremendous breeding surge in the cockroach population.
roach breeding?  sounds better and better.  dana?  the boys are going down under the sewers tonight to look for slime.  egon thinks there might even be some kind of big roach-breeding surge.  should we forget about dinner and go with them instead?
i think we are going to have to pass on the sewer trip, boys.  let me know what you find out.
okay, but you are missing all the fun.
six feet -- seven -- eight --
that is it.  it is on the bottom.
nine feet -- ten --
is the line sinking?
no, the slime is rising.
so -- are you making any new year's resolutions?
i want to stop getting involved with men who are not good for me.
does that start exactly at midnight tomorrow, or could you hold off for a few days maybe?
for one night in your life, do you think it is possible for us to be completely real?
all right, you want to be real?  so tell me why did you dump me?
oh, peter, i did not dump you.  i just had to protect myself.  you really were not very good for me, you know.
I am not even good for me.
why do you say things like that?  you are so much better than you know.
thank you.  if i had that kind of support on a daily basis, i could definitely shape up by the turn of the century.
so why do not you give me a jingle in the year 2000?
let me jingle you right now.
maybe i should call janine.
do not worry.  janine has a very special way with children.
i can not believe a person could actually live like this.
so these dwarfs had a limited partnership in a small mining operation and then one day a beautiful princess came to live with them.
it is really not a bad place.  it just needs a woman's touch.
so they bartered room and board in exchange for housekeeping services, which was a good deal for all of them because then they did not have to withhold tax and social security, which I am not saying is right but it is just a story, so i guess it is all right.  i can finish this later if you are tired.
you are really good with children, louis.  i can tell.  why do not you come here and sit with me?
okay.
motherhood is a very natural instinct for me.  I would like to have a baby myself. would not you?
tonight?
nice going, ray!  what were you trying to do -- drown me?
look, zeddemore, it was not my fault you were too stupid to drop that line.
you better watch your mouth, man, or I will punch your lights out.
oh yeah?  anytime, anytime.  just go ahead and try it.
if you two are looking for a fight, you got one.  who wants it first?  come on, ray.  try me, sucker.
butt out, you pencil-necked geek.  I have had it with you.
what are we doing?  ray, i was ready to kill you.
do not you see?  it is the slime.  that stuff is like pure, concentrated evil.
you should have been there, venkman. absolutely incredible!
yeah, sorry i missed it.  i guess you guys did not know about the dress code here.  it is really kind of a coat and tie place.
it is all over the city, pete -- well, under it actually.
rivers of the stuff!
and it is all flowing toward the museum.
sorry!
maybe we should discuss this somewhere else.
boys, listen.  you are scaring the straights. let's save this until tomorrow, okay?
this will not wait until tomorrow, venkman. it is hot and it is ready to pop.
should we go?
i do not think we should leave her alone.
you are right.  we should stay.
i, vigo, the scourge of carpathia --
yes, the scourge --
-- the sorrow of moldavia --
-- the sorrow --
i command you.
i await the word of vigo.
the season of evil begins with the birth of the new year.  bring me the child that i might live again.
lord vigo, the mother, dana, is fine and strong.  i was wondering -- well, would it be possible -- if i bring the baby, could i have the woman?
so be it.  on this the day of darkness, she will be ours, wife to you and mother to me.
tell him about the toaster.
i do not think he is ready for the toaster.
that is quite a story.
yeah, i think the times might be interested, do not you?  the post might have a lot of fun with it, too.
before you go running to the newspapers with this, would you consider telling this slime thing to some people downtown?
now you are talking.
what do you want with my baby?
no harm will come to the child.  you might even say it is a privilege.  he will be the vessel for the spirit of vigo.  and you -- well, you will be the mother of the ruler of the world.  does not that sound nice?
if this is what the world will be like, i do not want to live in it.
i do not believe we have the luxury of choice.
everybody has a choice.
not in this case, my dear.  take a look. that is not gainsborough's blue boy up there. he is vigo!
i do not care who he is.  he is not taking my baby.
it better not start yet.  I am trying to finish my potholder before lunch.
you think all those predictions about the world coming to an end in the 1990s are true?
come on, sherm.  you are my cousin.  do this for me.  I am begging you.
i can not do it, louis.  it is not ethical.  i could lose my license.
why can not you just have them released? you are a doctor.
I am a dermatologist.  i can not write orders on the psych ward.
sherman, I have done lots of favors for you.
like what?
i got you out of those bad tax shelters.
you were the one who got me in.
i fixed you up with diane troxler and she put out, did not she?
yeah, i had to give her free dermabrasion for a year.  forget it, louis.  i could get in a lot of trouble.
I am telling you, we are all going to be in big trouble if we do not do something fast. that ghost guy came and took my friend's baby and we got to get it back.  it is just a scared little baby, sherm.
then you should go to the police.  i do not believe in any of that stuff.
this is my cousin sherman.  sherm, say hello to the ghostbusters.  i promised him a ride in the car if he got you out.
hi, it is really great to meet you guys.  i know this sounds weird but once i had a dream that my grandfather was standing at the foot of my bed, but i knew it was impossible because he died and he started to tell me that --
hey!  wait!  okay, I will meet you there.
i thought you were like the fifth ghostbuster.
i let them handle all the little stuff.  i just come in on the big ones.
it looks like a giant jello mold.
i hate jello.
forget it.  the vienna boys choir could not get through this stuff.
good effort.  now what?  should we say supportive, nurturing things to it, ray?
it will not work.  there is no way we could generate enough positive energy to crack that shell.
i can not believe things have gotten so bad in this city that there is no way back. sure, it is crowded, it is dirty, it is noisy. and there are too many people who would just as soon step on your face as look at you.  but there've got to be a few sparks of sweet humanity left in this burned-out burg.  we just have to mobilize it.
we need something that everyone can get behind, a symbol --
something that appeals to the best in each and every one of us --
something good --
and pure --
and decent.
look, I have had it with you.  get your stuff together, get back in that clown car and get out of here.  this is a city matter and everything's under control.
oh, you think so?  well, I have got news for you.  you have got dracula's brother-in-law in there and he is got my girlfriend and her kid.  around about midnight tonight, when you are partying uptown, this guy's going to come to life and start doing amateur head transplants.  and that is just round one.
kind of makes you wonder, does not it?
wonder what?
if she is naked under that toga.  she is french, you know.
i hope we have enough stuff to do the job.
only one way to find out.  ready, teddy?
I am not sure this is such a good idea?  do they know you are doing this?
oh, yeah, sure -- no.  but there is really not much to do here and they might need some back-up at the museum.
you are very brave, louis.  good luck.
she is moving!
I have lived in new york all my life and i never visited the statue of liberty.  now i finally get here and we are taking her out for a walk.
how deep does it get?  that water's cold and i can not swim.
it is okay.  i have my senior lifesaving card.
I will keep to the middle of the channel. we are okay to 59th street, then we will go ashore and take first avenue to 79th.
are you kidding?  we will hit all that bridge traffic at 59th.  I am going to take 72nd straight up to fifth.  trust me, i used to drive a cab.
time is running out, dana.  soon it will be midnight and the city will be mine -- and vigo's.  well, mainly vigo's.  but we have a spectacular opportunity to make the best of our relationship.
we do not have a relationship.
i know.  marry me, dana, and together we will raise vigo as our son.  there are many perks that come with being the mother of a living god.  I am sure he will supply for us a magnificent apartment.  and perhaps a car and free parking.
i hate and despise you and everything you stand for with all my heart and soul.  i could never forgive what you have done to me and my child.
many marriages begin with a certain amount of distance, but after a while i believe we could learn to love each other.  think about it.
I would rather not.
it is working.  the positive gev's are climbing.
they love you, lib.  keep it up.
so far so good.
I am worried.  the vibrations could shake her to pieces.  we should have padded her feet.
i do not think they make nikes in her size.
we are almost there, lib.  step on it.
my fault!
she is new in town.
you pitiful, miserable creatures!  you dare to challenge the power of darkness?  do not you realize what you are dealing with?  he is vigo!  you are like the buzzing of flies to him.
oh, johnny.  did you back the wrong horse.
vigi, vigi, vigi -- you have been a bad little monkey.
the whole city's together on this one.  we took a vote.  everybody's down on you, you know.
do not shoot!  you will hit ray!
do it!  just do it!
ray -- ray -- how do you feel, man?
groovy.  I have never felt better in my life.
i think he likes you.  i think i do too.
finally came to your senses, huh?
late renaissance, i think.  caravaggio or brunelleschi.
there is something very familiar about this painting.
i think she looks pretty good here, do not you?
yeah, and a lot easier to get to than that island.
pretty impressive, huh?
it is probably the first thing my grandparents saw when they came to this country.
from where -- neptune?
they came from ostrov in eastern poland.
ostrov?  I have been there.  good party town.
my great-grandparents were swiss.  i still have the pictures they took of the statue from the boat when they arrived.
oh, right, you told me that.  they came to america seeking other kinds of cheese, as i recall.  how about you, winston?
my people were not taking any pictures from those slave ships, man.  and there was not any statue in charleston harbor to welcome them, either.  what are you, dana?
miss blue blood?  her family's been here since the year 12.
that is not true.  it was 1620.
same difference.
what is your story, pete?
me?  I am a little of everything.  some irish, some german, some french, dutch -- the women in my family slept around.  and that is what made this country great.
that is a terrible thing to say.
so what?  it is a free country.  thanks, lib.
