where are we now, commodus?  can you see the camp?  my gods!  the air is turning into ice!
we are nearly there, lucilla.
that is what you told me two days ago!
will you please get back in your wagon?  and stay there?
I am tired of being stuck in that wagon.
where is my father?
where is the emperor and the army, soldier?
i see the emperor's little boy has finally caught up with the army.
let's hope he does not start giving orders.
welcome back from your great triumph narcissus meridas.  my father sends his heart felt praise.  sadly, marcus is in dark humors -- nothing to worry about, but he needs rest. likely just the weather.
respectfully caesar, quintus and i must report.
of course, but not now.  however, if he continues to be unwell, you may report to me.
gladly, caesar.  and, if you would like we can take you for a tour of the front at first light.
I am certain father will be in better humors by then.  now, honor us with your presence at dinner.  I will join you as soon as i see my father's physician.
what the hell was all that about?
what the hell do you think it was about?  there is nothing an unproved heir to the throne likes less than glaring competence in others.
why do not we try to keep politics out of the conversation.
well, we can try...
no future-telling, please, I have been terrified enough for one day.
narcissus!  terrified?  you?  the only thing he is scared of is me.
you know our two most senior senators:  gaius cantus and falco verus?
only from a distance.
more wine, sister?  surely you can drink more than that.
i was suddenly thinking about going to bed.
oh, stay...  do not you want to join the chorus of praises for narcissus' glory?  just remember, he is a married man.
do you expect marcus to be well enough by morning for an audience?
that is difficult to say, general.
perhaps, master galen, you may say.
i would venture, with all respect: the emperor's health is the business of every soul in the empire.
yes!  the days of imperial prerogative and disdain for the senate are over -- thanks to your father!  now report to the senate, master galen:  what is marcus' state?
the battle was won, today, and i prefer to believe it was a gift of janus, the eldest god of rome.  god of my ancestors.
god of passages and changes?
i believe we are arriving in an enlightened age; an age of peace that will bring rome her greatest glory.  thanks to marcus aurelius.
you know, general, there is a gate of janus in rome which is only closed in time of peace.  sadly, it has remained open for three hundred years.
I have read of it.
but have never been?
my only visits to rome, senator, have been through books.  but the war's over, time to close the door of war once and for all.
then you would be out of a job.
gladly caesar.
or perhaps into a new one.  but here's to your god and the courage of our legions...
quite so.  narcissus and his courageous men; may they live long to serve rome...
and caesar!  let's not forget to serve caesar!
i back rome against all her enemies -- if that answer disappoints you, I am not a politician...
oh, but with the army behind you, you could become extremely political.  not a republican by any chance?
a republican is a man who strives to create equality among all classes.  at the core he is a man who believes in doing what is right.
the trouble is defining exactly what 'right' is.
we all know what right is, senator.
i would say there is nothing more dangerous than a man who knows what 'right' is.
the dangerous man, caesar, is the man who does not care.
but they are not destroyed, not yet.
do we really need to repair this fort?  it seems like an expensive undertaking.  i propose we burn it to the ground.  that way if the germans cross the danube here there will be nothing to help them build an offensive position.
commodus, it is we who are going on the offensive.
the fort helps position us for a final invasion in the spring when they are most vulnerable.
commodus -- listen to narcissus, listen to the man who has never lost a battle for rome!  you are young with years ahead of you before you gain the experience to wear the purple!
i want you to start your work for the last phase of the campaign.
i will, marcus.  but you are going to be well enough to direct it yourself.
I have made so many mistakes, narcissus.  we all put off the very last duties of our lives because we are afraid of admitting when our lives are over.
there is no reason to say that. everyone knows you are going to be well.  i had servis groom your horse for a triumphal visit to the front at first light.
servis made it through again?
he is like you, sir, too tough for the gods to swallow.
if I would ever had a sign that you wanted to rule i would have... no, again, it is my own bullheadedness. narcissus, i should have adopted you years ago.  and now the gods are begging me to make you my son!
commodus is just a young man, he will learn what you had to learn.
it is not because he is young, it is because he is ignorant and arrogant. his sister is a better man.  that is why i have undertaken to begin sweeping changes in the relationship between the emperor and the senate.
so i understand.
everyone talking about it?  i would not wonder.  all i seek is a genuine balance of power between the emperor and the senate.  thus i have transferred legal power -- which was theirs to begin with -- back to the senators.  this includes a shared right to taxation too but some bite in the plan.  it is a start, only a start.  if the emperor and the senate can share power then the people will be ready to take their share.  this means commodus has to bend; does he strike you as that type?
you are too hard on him.  he is a strong young man, with you as his guide...
a man should be upright, not be kept upright.  history shows us that a good general is quick to recognize opportunities -- even if it means making a complete about face at the last minute.  i want you to consider becoming my heir.
marcus, you honor me, but I am a soldier, politics scare the hell out of me.
the senators admire you.
they fear me.
they fear change.  the new caesar must be honest enough to know when the emperorship is no longer feasible.  you could be the one, the emperor, the man who oversees the rebirth of the republic.
I will do anything in my power to help you restore the republic but i can not be that power.
you and my father have become very close.  perhaps one day i may say the same for us.
you flatter me, caesar.
being as close, I am certain you have noticed what we all have noticed.
caesar?
that this illness has clouded his mind.
i thought all good generals were quick to recognize opportunities.
sneaking around with your brother?
without him.  he would be weeping if he overheard that.  well?  the idea of you as my adopted brother is very... exciting.
I am not fit for the job and as a matter of fact I am not taking the job.
why do you keep playing at being so humble?  it is a little embarrassing.
why do you play at being drunk?
how do you know i am playing?  well, the clown is always harmless.  is not that right?  and how did you ever get to know me so well?  the last we spent any time together i was fourteen.  i think you know me better than my father.  he is going to die, is not he?
i do not believe that.  he is got the best doctor in the world and a will of iron.  you know we are preparing for a full-blown invasion of germany.
of course i know -- who do you think is paying for it?  the emperor himself, did not you know?  why do you think commodus came rushing up to the front?  burning patriotism? filial love?  he wants to be sure when he takes over there is enough cash left in the treasury to... play emperor.  watch out for him, narcissus; he is inexperienced, but... be careful.
he is very realistic.
is not the helmet magnificent?
i made the plume from a quail feather.
much more colorful than the ones we wear.  and, of course, less dented.
well, you wanted the girls to have the best teachers.
greeks?
athenians...
what about their philosophy lessons?
they are studying with cynics.
of course...
you need to come home!
i can see that...
the battle is over.  the war is over.  you have won!
if you win, you know, you have to stay.  it is the losers who get to go home.  besides, I am not so sure it is over.  centurions report enemy scouts probing our lines.
this is our oil from our estates?
I have been overseeing production myself for the past three years, you will be surprised at how wonderful our oil has become.
very fancy.  did you design the bottle?
who else?  I am the one who runs the estates while you are here risking everything we have for the glory of rome!  or for the glory of you!
I am a soldier -- we are at war.  i can not stay home tending the damned olive groves?
we do not need your help we are doing great on our own.
i want to come home, of course i do, I would have to be mad not to want that. it is just that marcus trusts me.
let him trust quintus.
quintus is overly idealistic.
i never knew a more idealistic man than you.
me?  well, i believe in rome... you would have to after what I have seen, how people outside the empire treat each other.
i do not even want to imagine the things you have seen...
what you do not want to imagine is the things I have done.
do not stop to visit -- take the children straight home and I will follow as soon as i can.
tomorrow?
as soon as i can.
on your honor as a roman officer, daddy?
on my honor as your daddy...
marcus aurelius has died.
he left us at dawn.
serious stuff...
centurions on both sides of the river are convinced the germans will try one last offensive.  they have got nothing to lose and it is so very like them.
I am ordering a general stand-down in preparation for withdrawal back across the danube.
we have to stop the germans now!
we must obey our emperor and the senate.
i met with falco, and the senators have agreed to call for a truce with the germans.
forgive me, caesar, but do two senator represent the mood of the whole senate or the will of the roman people?  besides, every truce we make with the germans they break!
they will not break this one.
apparently my opinion was not needed.
everyone knew you would have been outspoken against this deal.
what deal?
rome is going to pay an allotment to the german tribes on an annual basis.
rome is going to pay tribute -- like a defeated nation begging for mercy? have you told your troops that?
my troops do not make policy.
well, they die for it!
on his death bed i promised marcus i would complete our work here.  the senate may be vacillating, but i have the army behind me.  I am taking half a cohort and restocking that fort.
i can not let you do that.
where is my family?
cooperate and they will be returned to your estate.  i could have executed you.
and my army would have thrown your body into the danube.
the army is a problem.  they love you.  you have led them from victory to victory in the name of rome and they love you.  and after all, you are just a hothead acting from a misguided sense of loyalty -- who could fault you for that?  thus have i reached a compromise with the senate over your fate: instead of executing you, I am sending you to rome where you will be tried...
on what charge?
insubordination.  to the emperor... and the senate.
quintus will tell the army that you are being called to rome to celebrate your victory.  they will hear that you are living in luxury. he will let them feel you have betrayed them for the good life. and soon the army will not even remember your name.
the senate too?
the moment you returned from the battle your options were clear.  if you are a friend to neither side, legate, you must be an enemy to both.  we needed to know what you believed.
i hope you live to see what i believe...
you on your way to trial, too, general?  or do you think they have already had our trial?
why you?
my loyalties... were in doubt.
fools to let us both live; we will be our own best witnesses at our trial.
that is what worries me...
the senate is out to sink you.  i swear it, caesar, your generosity is being repaid with public attacks on your honor.  your enemies want you weak enough so by the first of janus when you must be confirmed the senate will be able to deny you.
how can they?  who else is there?  i have no heir...
is this rome?  are we just going to be executed?
they can't... if this is rome...
you are a legate in the roman army. huh...?  and you act like one. what was your crime?
i killed too many barbarians.
I am a greek, thank you.  and i was brought up believing romans were the barbarians.  give our new colleague some of the cretan white.  relax, tell me everything, I am your friend.
who the hell are you?
i am the man who might save your life -- give you a bit more life at any rate.  i am proximo palindromos head of this gladiatorial school which is named after me.  i own this school and everything that is in it.  you are in it!  but why?  what did a roman general do to get himself condemned to the colosseum? understand, we usually get corn thieves and pick pockets.  please, i separated you from the others because...  ... my nose tells me you have been condemned for important reasons.
condemned?  are not i owed a trial before being condemned?
general, all i know is you have been condemned to the colosseum, and a trial is nowhere to be seen.
impossible!  every citizen has a right to trial -- this is rome!
thank you.  what is going to happen tomorrow?  exactly?
you are to be killed, exactly. they will give you a sporting chance, but just enough to make your murder... entertaining.  romans like to mix their metaphors:  laughter with their executions, you know?  if you survive, though, you will become a gladiator.  a gladiator at least gets a fair fight.
death is a very light thing for you.
death is... everything for me.  now you have to go to your cell, and i to dicker with jerses... you will be fed well.  i want you to be fit as you can be; i want you to win for me tomorrow!  i want all my gladiators to win and be happy!  besides, I have never owned a roman general before.
take your hands off me animal!
chain him.
sorry but i have to get at least one fight out of you otherwise i will not even get back the cost of the bribe i had to pay the arena slaves to get you here.  i know what you are trying to do:  kill yourself and trust in the roman tradition of justice that the emperor will let your family survive and keep their lands.  the only thing you have accomplishes is to prove you are a very important individual.  you make me feel good about my investment!  and that puking pig jerses -- he will not even discuss you.  both of you have clamped mouths!  but i love all my fighters -- I will find out about your family.  and about you.  that i promise.
i refuse to be your slave.  i refuse --
-- to fight?  we will see...
do not you think you should at least wave?
why?  then they will notice when I am gone.  well.  I am making a public appearance are not i?
caesar, ignore them.
ignore that?!  the sooner we leave this disgusting place the better.
at least stay for the running of the animals.  you are paying for it you know...
gods of hell!  this must cost a fortune!  how many days is this going to go on?
until your confirmation date.
legate narcissus meridas, general of the spanish felix legions!  I am proud to have you in my school!  now, show them what you can do!
I am not a gladiator.  i refuse to fight.
then, you will die...  just, know this:  because you asked i asked:  I am sorry but...
they hate me, they really hate me do not they?
maybe you should get married.  pick one of your cousins, it would demonstrate a profound stability.
i should at least have you, do not you think?
if you get me pregnant with a boy he will be a double direct heir and will end up killing you for the throne.
did narcissus die today?  was not this his day to die?
I am sure, i do not know.
tribuus, what happened in the arena? was narcissus killed?
he must have been.  he was on the list of prisoners to be executed.
no one in rome has ever heard of him.  do you want to remind those few in the senate who have?  the whole sordid thing is far beneath your position to begin with.  forget about him.
let some time pass... then ask, quietly, without anyone knowing it comes from me.
general, do you realize what happened out there today?
i did not get killed and everyone else did.
that is one way to look at it.
you won an impossible fight.  you got the attention of the crowd, legate...
this is cos, this precocious young man.  a scribe for the daily action.  I have invited him to write a small piece about you...
I am mentioning you in tomorrow's athlete's section, legate.  so, I would love to know your birth sign; it effects how people bet.  and perhaps you could tell me a bit about... well, who are you?
and like children everywhere they scream "freedom" the most when they desire it least.  i beg you, please continue, caesar.
at the opening of the month of janus, i will ask this noble body to confirm my emperorship...
those are priceless sculptures.
i want every single thing that belonged to my father out of this house!  if it is worth something then sell it!
it is disgusting!  animals!  i had to come here under armed guard.  slaves -- get this junk out of my sight.
commodus is heaving out every thing that belonged to our father.  except that he can not heave out his ghost.
throw it down into the streets! down into the forum.  if it is my father they want then give him to them!
yes.  you know, that is not a bad idea.
maybe it will crush gaius.
I am serious.
so am i.
we can crush gaius another way. what if you do throw something to the people they really want?  make them a gift of food.
give away food?
sacks of grain, even bread.  i own the grain licenses for the military, i can arrange to divert a shipment bound for the army of the danube.
take grain away from the army?
make a gift to the people.  it is your money anyway so it is only fair.
how about in the forum.  right in front of the senate.
if i may be so bold...
for the gods, spit it out!
why not do it in the colosseum?
caesar, let me sponsor your first wager in the arena.
i would not know who to bet on.
why is not he dead?  damn you, you promised me he would be dead!
caesar, i did my best.  the colosseum is not under my control...
kill him!  tribuus -- execute that bastard.
you can not do that!  you came here to turn the crowd around not make them hate you.
tribuus... tomorrow.
you are coming back?
i have to come back.  if i do not come back the people will think I am a coward.  tribuus, tomorrow he dies -- i want his blood on the sand.  do you understand?
yes, caesar?
jerses -- tomorrow...
at the end of the day i was approached by the golden pompeii olive oil company.  small, but profitable.  they asked if you would endorse their oil.  we could get some very nice posters.  make some very big money...
what would the poster say: "narcissus would kill for a taste of golden pompeii olive oil?"
think about it!  just think about it!
who are you?  narcissus the good?  i have heard of narcissus meridas. that is who i hear you are.
you are hearing about somebody else.
how did you get condemned to the arena without a trial?
when the senate and the emperor agree miracles can happen.
would you support the senate if they would give you a trial?  you would have to give me your word.
i need to give you my word when yours is worth nothing?
you are a citizen and a soldier.  not a gladiator.
you do not know how wrong you are.
general, hang on... drink slowly. you are blessed by the gods to have a physician and a divine of janus with you tonight.  a fan sent them to you.
alive... I am alive...
it is my brother's neck you want, not mine.
yours will do!
proximo, if this is her doctor he is an assassin.
do not be ridiculous.
i came here to see that you stay alive.  the people need a living breathing alternative to commodus, a hero.
you mean a symbol of someone who does not exist.
but you do exist.  narcissus:  hero of the battle of the danube.
twenty years I have led men to die. for me it was the glory of rome. but that was something.  if it was not that, then it was the pay or the loot of the next whore -- but that was something!  these men here are butchered for laughs!  their lives are like jokes delivered in the back alley theaters where their death is a punch line!
for the sake of the gods, you are not leading these men?  how like my father you are.  you 'believe'... i guess that is why you are still alive.
to think i brought my daughters up on all things roman.  read to sleep on catullus, lucretius... virgil... every night.  my beautiful daughters.
do you remember your epictetus, that little homily we recited when we were children?  the one that was supposed to remind us we were romans?
"if you consider yourself to be only one thread of many in the tunic, then it is fitting for you to be like the rest of men, just as the thread has no desire to be any better than the other threads. but..."
"but what if i wish to be purple?"
you cannot die.
would that marcus had lived.
marcus would have lived but... was poisoned by his son.
he killed his father and then my family...
narcissus, i have your family. they are alive.  all of them.
where are they?
hidden.  where my brother cannot place hands on them.  he did not have the guts to watch them die so... i took care of it all.  the sooner he is put out of our misery, the sooner will they be safe.
where have you been?
taking my pleasure.  do i need to clear my lovers with you?
you must start clearing everything with me -- especially your lovers.
why are you so surly -- you have won, brother.  the people have bread and the city is quiet.
what is that... wailing?
the fans of narcissus.  they were on vigil outside the school of proximo. they believe he is dying.
now that is a happy sound! tomorrow, i want the citizens -- my people -- back in the arena.  the gods know, I am tired.  come to bed, now; tonight we are celebrating.
what are you talking about?
now that we are done with that infatuation forever.
if i ever loved narcissus it was not like you want.
but i get what i want, always, do not i?
it will be good luck for you to wear that helmet... it belonged to cimon of smyrna... he was crushed by an elephant.
lucky it did not step on his head.
so tell me, what happened between you and the emperor?  what really happened on the german front?  you know the senate's arguing your case...
that is their job, is not it?  to argue.  so, i think my case will be long on talk and short on action.
i am prepared to write anything you tell me.
my birth sign is water bearer, twenty-fifth day in the month of janus.
the exact month when the emperor must be confirmed!
the emperor and i are bound by the threads of the fates.  he was born on august thirty-first, you know.
that makes his birth sign... virgo! why that is the sign of a little girl!  can you tell my readers more about your star-crossed connection with emperor commodus?
proximo, we need to talk about my one third... i imagine the betting booths will be doing good business. and, what was the name of that olive oil company?
"... encased in the armor of a demigod, narcissus the good continues his impossible climb in the arena where he was unjustly cast..."
yes?  go on!
"... by the emperor of rome.  this writer asks:  between a senate that debates truth until they choke, an emperor who has the birth sign of a woman, is it possible there is more virtue within the arena than without?"
no more bad luck now!  the people are anticipating you!  i have posters up over half the city advertising you as the great warrior -- the true roman!  the man who fought side by side with the wolf of rome!
make us rich, proximo, make us very rich...
"caesar commodus discovering his lineage converges with the demigod, hercules, has determined to display his magnificence before his beloved citizens."  the emperor's going to fight in the arena.  I am supposed to write this for tomorrow's edition.
commodus... he is a gladiator... is he mad?
tiger's challenged you and jerses has made me an offer, made us both an offer:  you take a fall.
what the hell are you talking about, greek?
you put this inside your shirt -- when tiger stabs your stomach -- it is full of pig's blood.  gushes out everywhere!  it is really impressive.  fantastic!  better than the real thing!
so i pretend I am dead.  you get gold, what do i get?
you get to come alive again in the country!
as, what, 'the galloping gladiator?!'
the point is you get to fight the easy country circuit, the small arenas, relax, live the good life!
spend my days beheading country bumpkins?  i do not know, proximo, who has better wine than you? besides, I am beginning to think of the colosseum as my home.
but -- you have to go out there! I will give you more than your one third!  when i get paid... just take the fall!  you are too hurt to fight and the man's a killer!
pressures on, eh proximo?  there is got to be a load of money in this. why else would you toss a red hot commodity like me out the window?
it is absolutely not like that!  this is for your own good!  come on get the rest of your armor on!
tell me honestly, since this may be our last earthly meeting:  if this were a fair fight where would you put your money?
on you!  of course!  you are my bravest fighter -- the best fighter i have ever seen!
such nobility from such an ignoble mouth.  take my advice and make that bet.
oh, shit.  take your time!  do not get suckered!  this man is a murderer!  in his career he is killed over a thousand gladiators.  please, just take the fall!
tell lykas to send a retiarius and a samnite to help tiger.
you can not do that... listen to the mood of the crowd.
i want that bastard dead!
you want control of the crowd -- you can not get it by killing their hero.
i am their hero!
not yet, dear brother...
send them out!
tribuus!  go left here, i want to see my new statue at via claudia.
yes, caesar.
we need more statues -- perhaps i should open medical clinics.  for the poor.  citizens only, though...
how much money is involved?
a great deal.  they designed and build tiger's chariot...
they want to dump tiger and have me endorse their damned chariot, right? they do not waste time...
i can really rape them on this!  can i at least tell them you will think about it?
no.  tell them I will do it.  but i want more posters all over rome.
fantastic!  wonderful!  but posters are very expensive.
then get a large cash advance.
right, right... but they will have to bring in a lawyer.  i do not want to get sued over this.
before they leave, get gold.
right, right, what am i thinking of?
i want another interview with cos. tell him to bring plenty of ink.
I will do it!  sure as there is shit in the tiber we are all going to die, but for you -- anything!
endorse me in public.  do that and I will make you rich and set you free. I will return your estates.  i know you would give anything to be outside again.  endorse me and you will be free.  think of it.  what would you do with your freedom?
if you set me free i will find my way back to the army, march on rome and depose you.  then, the army and i will restore the republic so that animals like you will never control human destinies again.
lykas, pick a man.  someone who will look good.  jerses i want it built up in the daily action...
do you want posters, too?
it is time for you to tell the citizens that commodus stole the money allocated for defending the german border.  it is time to tell the citizens everything.  will you write it?
yes, because i know they will read it.
cos, what in hades is the emperor up to?  and do not tell me you do not know!
i do not know...
agh!  please!  he is having a secret device constructed for the circus. the brass craftsmen are working overtime.
I will nose around...
you know there were riots last night.  now the unrest has started again and commodus has sent for an army division.  you understand what you are doing...
so, things change.  the government has moved to the circus.  you are going to fight last.  and commodus is going to fight first.
you were a soldier, and then a gladiator, were not you?
was i?
you brought the army into rome.
i was summoned.
it is your job as a roman officer to disobey such a summons.
it is my job to keep my job.  and that, by the way, is now head of praetorian guard.  good ole tribuus has been retired.
quintus, you have got at least a division with you -- we could take rome away from commodus and give it back to the senate!
you seem to be doing a great job of it single-hand!  narcissus, the republic is dead.  you think those senators could govern?  for the last hundred and fifty years they have worked hard at kissing an endless succession of imperial asses!
then give the empire back to the people... the children who will grow up to become senators...
the 'people'?, listen to the people, they know what they want:  a government that gives them what they need and does not bother them with messy thoughts of issues.  you know, messy... thinking.  they want a dictator!  as far as the children, there is only one thing that every roman child dreams of:  being you! a famous gladiator!
what are you fighting for in here? the good of rome?  i can end this madness now!  take the job for the sake of the gods, live!
can you stop that slaughter?!  can you free these men?
this is the only place in rome where i thought -- i believed -- i was wholly in power.
narcissus will never support you, caesar, he has too much of a philosophical temperament.
damn him!  i should have killed him on the front -- i let you talk me out of that.
you would have had a full scale revolt on your hands.
what have i got now?  it is exactly as if there were two emperors. because of this the people have two minds.  he is their champion.
it is because he comes off as the underdog.
underdog!  how can he be an underdog -- he wins all the time!  I am the emperor why can not i kill him?  he could be poisoned, or somehow killed to look like an accident.
you do not want to kill him.  if anything happens to him now you will be blamed... and he knows it. besides, that gladiator school is a fortress.  it would take the army to break in there.  what you want is to... offer him the wooden sword. if he takes it, he is no longer the champion of the people, is he?  he is gone.  and you are a hero for awarding it.
let's talk about this later.  right now we have other things to settle. you and your family will be leaving with a supply ship returning in the morning to ostia.  from there, caesar has decreed you be given an estate in paestum.  it is beautiful; an old greek town right on the ocean.  rich soil.  perhaps we could keep our financial arrangements... although caesar will give you a sort of pension it is always good to look to the future, keep your hand in the arena... so to speak.
i want nothing to do with the arena.
something else, then.  do the chariot races interest you?
commodus must hate you.  free your gladiators and come with us.
are you mad?  with all this unrest the colosseum will be open day and night!  anyway, I am not political, I am in the entertainment business.
when you get to ostia, use this -- bribe passage to africa or spain. save my family.  you should be able to find a merchant ship that will take you to egypt then to numidia.
no!
you are not going!  you have to stay with us!
how long do you think commodus will let us live once he is in power?  a month?  half a year?  paestum will be a prison where he will hold us until it is time...
narcissus!
do you want to see themis and manto butchered?  if i die fighting commodus he will not care about you. if i live I will come and get you.
i do not want you to die!
I will never die.  you tell the girls that.  you honor our ancestors and I will be there.  every night.  at the table of life.
your daughters need more than some vapors; they need you!
they will have me.  teach them.  do not let them become like these ignorant heaps of citizens without history, without philosophy, without meaning. teach them of the greeks, the babylonians, the hebrews, the numidians, the egyptians and the great romans.  teach them, who we are!
you teach them!
that is what I am going to do.  that is what I am going to do...
