you guys know my cousin mikey sullivan?
yeah.
well you know how he loves animals right? anyway, last week he is drivin' home...
what? come on!
I am sorry, 'cause you know mikey, the fuckin guy loves animals, and this is the last person you would want this to happen to.
chuckie, what the fuck happened?
okay. he is driving along and this fuckin' cat jumps in front of his car, and so he hits this cat--
--that is not funny--
--and he is like "shit! motherfucker!" and he looks in his rearview and sees this cat-- I am sorry--
it is walkin' pretty slow at this point.
you guys are fuckin' sick.
jesus.
and all the time he is apologizin' to the cat, goin' "i'm sorry." bang, "i'm sorry." bang!
yeah, so he is like "check the front of my truck, i can prove i hit it 'cause there is probably some blood or something"--
--or a tail--
will!
and so they go around to the front of his truck...and there is another cat on the grille.
stop brushin' me back!
stop crowdin the plate!
casey's bouncin' at a bar up harvard. we should go there sometime.
what are we gonna do up there?
i do not know, we will fuck up some smart kids.  you would prob'ly fit right in.
fuck you.
excuse me, professor lambeau?
yes.
I am in your applied theories class. we are all down at the math and science building.
it is saturday.
i know. we just could not wait 'till monday to find out.
find out what?
who proved the theorem.
yah, that is a nice ass.
you could put a pool in that backyard.
who is she talking to?
that fuckin' guinea, will knows him.
fuck this, let's get something to eat...
what morgan, you are not going to go talk to her?
fuck her.
i could go for a whopper.
let's hit "kelly's."
morgan, I am not goin' to "kelly's roast beef" just cause you like the take-out girl. it is fifteen minutes out of our way. morgan what else we going to do we can not spare fifteen minutes?
all right morgan, fine. I will tell you why we are not going to "kelly's." it is because the take-out bitch is a fuckin' idiot. I am sorry you like her but she is dumb as a post and she has never got our order right, never once.
she is not stupid.
she is sharp as a marble.
we are not goin'.  i do not even like "kelly's."
would you shut the fuck up! i know what you ordered, i was there!
so why do not you give me my sandwhich?
what do you mean "your sandwhich?" i bought it.
yah, all right...
how much money you got?
i told you, i just got change.
well give me your fuckin' change and we will put your fuckin' sandwhich on lay-away.
why you gotta be an asshole chuckie?
i think you should establish a good line of credit.
she did not do it again did she?
jesus christ. not even close.
did she get my double burger?
no she did not get your double burger!! it is all fuckin' flyin' fish filet!!
jesus, that is really bad, did anyone even order a flyin' fish?
no, and we got four of 'em.
well, she out did herself today...
i do not got a crush on her.
what do we got?
i do not know yet.
come on, will...
shut up.
no, why did not you fight him at the park if you wanted to? I am not goin' now, I am eatin' my snack. will  so do not go.
morgan, let's go.
I am serious chuckie, i am not goin'.
hey, thanks for comin' out.
yeah, you are all invited over to morgan's house for a complementary fish sandwhich.
when is the arraignment?
next week.
oh, I am sorry.
what are you doing?
I am sorry.
what is your name?  do not you walk away from me. this is people's work, you can not graffiti here.
hey fuck you.
well... I will be speaking to your supervisor.
what happened?  you got fired, huh?
yeah, morgan. i got fired.
how fuckin' retarded do you have to be to get shit-canned from that job? how hard is it to push a fuckin' broom?
you got fired from pushing a broom, you little bitch.
yah, that was different. management was restructurin'--
--yah, restructurin' the amount of retards they had workin' for them.
fuck you, you fat fuck.
least i work for a livin'.  why did you get fired?
my uncle can probably get you on my demo team.
what the fuck? i just asked you for a job yesterday!
i told you "no" yesterday!
okay.
so, you ladies ah, go to school here?
what class?
ah, history i think.
oh...
yah, it is not a bad school...
what class did you say that was?
history.
how did you like that course?
good, it was all right.
history? just "history?" it must have been a survey course then.
hey, come on pal we are in classes all day. that is one thing about harvard never seizes to amaze me, everybody's talkin' about school all the time.
hey, I am the last guy to want to talk about school at the bar. but as long as you are here i want to "seize" the opportunity to ask you a question.
to tell you the truth, i was not there much. the class was rather elementary.
elementary? oh, i do not doubt that it was. i remember the class, it was just between recess and lunch.
all right, are we gonna have a problem?
there is no problem. i was just hoping you could give me some insight into the evolution of the market economy in the early colonies. my contention is that prior to the revolutionary war the economic modalities especially of the southern colonies could most aptly be characterized as agrarian pre- capitalist and...
you suck.
what?
I have been sitting over there for forty- five minutes waiting for you to come talk to me. but I am just tired now and i have to go home and i was not going to keep sitting there waiting for you.
I am will.
skylar. and by the way. that guy over there is a real dick and i just wanted you to know he did not come with us.
i kind of got that impression.
well, look, i have to go. gotta' get up early and waste some more money on my overpriced education.
i did not mean you. listen, maybe...
here's my number.
great, or maybe we could go somewhere and just eat a bunch of caramels.
what?
when you think about it, it is just as arbitrary as drinking coffee.
okay, sounds good.
five minutes.
what?
i was trying to be smooth.  but at twelve-fifteen i was gonna come over there and talk to you.
see, it is my life story. five more minutes and i would have got to hear your best pick-up line.
the caramel thing is my pick-up line.
there goes that fuckin' barney right now, with his fuckin' "skiin' trip." we should'a kicked that dude's ass.
hold up.
excuse me. is this the buildings and grounds office?
yeah, can i help you?
I am trying to find the name of a student who works here.
no students work for me.
could you just check, because the young man who works in my building--
which one's your building?
building two.
well, if something was stolen, i should know about it.
no, no. nothing like that. i just need his name. terry i can not give you his name unless you have a complaint.
please, I am a professor here and it is very important.
well, he did not show up for work today...
yeah?
it is will, the really funny good looking guy you met at the bar?
I am sorry, i do not recall meeting anyone who fits that description.
okay, you got me. it is the ugly, obnoxious, toothless loser who got drunk and would not leave you alone all night.
oh will! i was wondering when you would call.
yeah, i figured maybe sometime this week we could go to a cafe and have some caramels.
sounds good, where are you now?
you aren't, by any chance, pre-law? are you?
hello. gerald lambeau, m.i.t.
fuck do you want?
I have spoken with the judge and he is agreed to release you under my supervision.
really?
yes. under two conditions.
what are those?
that you meet with me twice a week--
if i agree to this, i walk right now?
that is right.
I will do the work. I am not going to meet with a therapist.
now, it will not be as bad as it sounds, will.  I have already spoken to one therapist, his name is henry lipkin and he is a friend of mine. he is also published four books and is widely considered to be one of the brightest men in his field.  I am sure it will be better than spending the next six months in jail.
submit, bitch! submit! submit!
suck my cock!
oh, morgan!
what did you get? you get leniency?
probation, counselin', few days a week.
you are fuckin' good.
that is why i love stock-car racin'. that dale ernhart's real good.
now you know will, and i know, what you need to be doing. you have a gift.
i could work the pit maybe, but i could never drive like dale ernhart--
--you have a quality-- something you were born with, that you have no control over- and you are, in a sense, hiding that by becoming a janitor. and I am not saying that is wrong. I am friends with the janitor that works in my building. he is been to my house for dinner. as a matter of fact i did some free consultation for "mike" -- that is not his real name. that is in my book.
yeah, i read your book. "mike" had the same problems as "chad" the stockbroker.
yes. the pressures you feel, and again, i am neither labeling nor judging them, are keeping you from fulfilling your potential -- you are in a rut. so stop the tom foolery -- the shenanigan's, will.
you are right. i know.
will, your not getting off that easy.
no, but, i mean you know...i do other things. that no one knows about.
like what, will?
i go places, i interact.
what places?
certain, clubs.  like, paradise. it is not bad.
i might understand that.
do you find it hard to hide the fact that you are gay?
what?
c'mon, i read your book. i talked to you. it is just something i know to be true.
that is very presumptuous.
buddy, two seconds ago you were ready to give me a jump.
well, I am sorry to disappoint you, but I am married and i have two children.
I am sure you do. you probably got a real nice house, nice car -- your book's a best seller.
you are getting defensive, will.
look, man. i do not care if you are putting from the rough. there are solid arguments that some of the greatest people in history were gay; alexander the great, caeser, shakespeare, oscar wilde, napoleon, gertrude stein, not to mention danny terrio, not many straight men can dance like that.
who is "danny terrio?"
if you wanna hit "ramrod," take your shot. take some pride in it. you go to church? so fuckin' what, god loves you. i mean, christ. a guy as well known as you? by the time you put your disguise on and skulk out of the house sunday nights you probably look like "inspector cluseau."
well, i can see this is pointless...
you are getting defensive...henry. and hey, cheif--tell the wife, at least. christ, set her free.
this rectangle is subdivided into rectangles. one edge of an inner rectangle is an integer. can you prove that one edge of the larger rectangle is an integer?
of course.
okay. how?
it is an integer proof.
that would be a monumental waste of time, would not it, will?
i think so.
i happen to know so.
what is that?
half-red, half-black--
--that?--
--half-red, half-black--
--that edge!
an integer.
shall we start the, uh...
yeah, when do i get my hypnosis? you guys been talkin' for twenty minutes.
okay, you are in your bed, will. now how old are you?
seven.
and what do you see?
somethin's in my room.
what is it?
it is like a small figure, hoverin' over me. gettin' closer.
you are in a safe place, will.
it is touching me.
where is it touching you?
down there.  and I am nervous.
you do not have to be nervous, will.
oh, for god's sake, will.
oh, come on! you are not pinnin' this one on me. he left, i wanted to talk to him for another twenty minutes. i was havin' fun.
i told you to cooperate with these people.
c'mon, that guy was a fuckin' piece of work.
get out, will.
okay...don't forget to get another therapist for next week.
that is enough.
i called mel weintraub this morning, to check for availability.
what is the point?
what do you want to do?
there is somebody...
who is he?
he was my roommate in college.
sean.
well, it seems we are in the presence of greatness. professor gerald lambeau is a field's medal winner. combunatorial mathematics. 1986.
hello.
the field's medal is the nobel prize for math.  but it is only given out every four years.
good to see you.
good to see you.
is there someplace we can talk?
i do not know, it was just kind of the boring suburban thing. private school, harvard, and now med. school.  i actually figured out that at the end of it, my brain will be worth a quarter of a million dollars. i should not have told you that...
i bet your parents were happy to pay.
i was happy to pay. i inherited the money.
is harvard gettin' all that money?
stanford. I am leaving in june after i graduate.
so you just want to use me and go?
well, I am going to experiment on you for my anatomy class, then go.
in that case, fine.  want to see my magic trick?
sure.
now, I am going to make all these caramels disappear.
okay...
i did not see you at the reunion.
I have been busy.
you were missed.  how long has it been since we have seen each other?
since nancy died.
I am sorry, that damn conference--
i got your card.
have you ever seen annie hall?
no.
well, there is this part of the movie that is about how there is always this tension on a first date where both people are thinking about what is going to happen with the whole 'good night kiss' thing.
i really do not 'date' that much.
you know what i mean. i know you have at least thought about it.
no i haven't...
yes you have. you were thinking you were gonna get a good night kiss.
no i wasn't...
yes you were.
i was kinda' hopin' to get a "good night laid" but...i'll take a kiss.
oh, you will?
no...i was hoping to get a kiss.
then why do not we just get it out of the way.
free?
hey, i spent all my money on those caramels.
I have been busy, gerry. i got a full schedule.
this kid's special, sean. I have never seen anything like him.
not much free time, gerry. lambeau have you ever heard of a man named ramanujan?
yeah.
he was alive over a hundred years ago. he was indian. dots, not feathers...
and he mailed it to hardy--
--that's right, sean. he mailed it to a professor at cambridge who immediately recognized the brilliance in his work and brought ramanujan to england.
where he contracted pneumonia and died at a young age--
they worked together for the remainder of their lives, producing some of the most exciting math theory ever done. ramanujan's genius was unparalleled, sean. this boy is like that. but he is very defensive and i need someone who can get through to him.
why me?
i need someone with your kind of background.
my kind of background?
you are from the same neighborhood. south boston.
he is from southie? how many people did you try before you came to me?
five.
not rick? you did not send him to rick?
just meet with the boy once a week.
can we do it at my office?
that would be fine.
i got it.
it is on the college.
any vulnerability he senses, he will exploit.
I will be okay.
it is a poker game with this young man. do not let him see what you have got.
no.
will, this is sean maguire. sean, will hunting.
would you excuse us?
tom.
you too, gerry.
did you buy all these books retail, or do you send away for like a "shrink kit" that comes with all these volumes included?
have you read all these books, will?
probably not.
how about the ones on that shelf?
yeah, i read those.
what did you think?
I am not here for a fuckin' book report. they are your books, why do not you read 'em?
i did.
that must have taken you a long time.
yeah, it did take me a long time.
"a history of the united states, volume i." if you want to read a real history book, read howard zinn's "a people's history of the united states." that book will knock you on your ass.
how about noam chomsky's "manufacturing consent?"
you people baffle me. you spend all this money on beautiful, fancy books-- and they are the wrong fuckin' books.
you think so?
whatever blows your hair back.
guy your age should not smoke so much. stunt your growth.
you are right. it really gets in the way of my jazzercizing.
yes, i do.
nautilus?
free weights. will oh yeah? me too. what do you bench?
285.
oh.
yeah. do you paint?
no.
crayons?
this is a real piece of shit.
tell me what you really think.
poor color composition, lousy use of space. but that shit does not really concern me.
what does?
the color here, see how dark it is? it is interesting.
what is?
i think you are one step away from cutting your ear off.
oh, "starry night" time, huh?
you ever heard the saying, "any port in a storm?"
sure, how 'bout "still waters run deep"--
--well, maybe that means you.
maybe what mea--
maybe you should be a patient and sit down.
maybe you married the wrong woman.
watch your mouth.
that is it is not it? you married the wrong woman. she leave you? was she bangin' someone else?
if you ever disrespect my wife again...i will end you.
time's up.
you grew up around here?
not far from here, south boston.
how was that?
pretty boring, i guess.
i bet you have a great family.
you know, nothing special.
you have a lot of brothers and sisters?
do i have a lot of brothers and sisters?
yeah.
well, irish catholic. what do you think?
how many?
you would not believe me if i told you.
what, five?
i have twelve big brothers.
not a chance.
yup, you are lookin' at lucky thirteen.
bullshit.
i swear to god.
your house must have been a zoo.
it was great. there was always someone to play with, give you advice.
do you know all their names?
'course i do, they are my brothers.
well...
marky, ricky, danny, terry, mikey, davey, timmy, tommy, joey, robby, johnny, and brian.
do you keep in touch with them?
all the time. we all live in southie. i live with three of them now.
i want to meet them.
we will do that.
so what is with this place? you have a swan fetish? is this something you would like to talk about?
i was thinking about what you said to me the other day, about my painting. i stayed up half the night thinking about it and then something occured to me and i fell into a deep peaceful sleep and have not thought about you since. you know what occurred to me?
no.
you are just a boy. you do not have the faintest idea what you are talking about.
why thank you.
you have never been out of boston.
no.
so if i asked you about art you could give me the skinny on every art book ever written...michelangelo? you know a lot about him i bet. life's work, criticisms, political aspirations. but you could not tell me what it smells like in the sistine chapel. you have never stood there and looked up at that beautiful ceiling. and if i asked you about women I am sure you could give me a syllabus of your personal favorites, and maybe you have been laid a few times too. but you could not tell me how it feels to wake up next to a woman and be truly happy. if i asked you about war you could refer me to a bevy of fictional and non-fictional material, but you have never been in one. you have never held your best friend's head in your lap and watched him draw his last breath, looking to you for help. and if i asked you about love I would get a sonnet, but you have never looked at a woman and been truly vulnerable. known that someone could kill you with a look. that someone could rescue you from grief. that god had put an angel on earth just for you. and you would not know how it felt to be her angel. to have the love be there for her forever. through anything, through cancer. you would not know about sleeping sitting up in a hospital room for two months holding her hand and not leaving because the doctors could see in your eyes that the term "visiting hours" did not apply to you. and you would not know about real loss, because that only occurs when you lose something you love more than yourself, and you have never dared to love anything that much. i look at you and i do not see an intelligent confident man, i do not see a peer, and i do not see my equal. i see a boy. nobody could possibly understand you, right will? yet you presume to know so much about me because of a painting you saw. you must know everything about me. you are an orphan, right?
who would you call?
no one. i did not have the number.
keep fuckin' with me. watch what happens.
all right, then.
watch what happens.
what do you mean "he did not talk?" you sat there for an hour?
no, he just sat there and counted the seconds until the session was over. it was pretty impressive, actually.
why would he do that?
to show me he does not have to talk to me if he does not want to.
oh, what is this? some kind of staring contest between two kids from the "old neighborhood?"
i will not talk first.
i did not get on cathy last night.
why not?
i do not know.
you know, i was on this plane once. and I am sittin' there and the captain comes on and is like "we'll be cruising at 35,000 feet," and does his thing, then he puts the mike down but forgets to turn it off. then he says "man, all i want right now is a blow-job and a cup of coffee." so the stewardess goes runnin' up towards the cock-pit to tell him the mike's still on, and this guy in the back of the plane goes "don't forget the coffee!"
you have never been on a plane.
i know, but the joke's better if i tell it in the first person.
yeah? you got a lady now?
yeah, i went on a date last week.
how did it go?
fine.
well, are you going out again?
i do not know.
why not?
have not called her.
jesus christ, you are an amateur.
i know what I am doing. she is different from the other girls i met. we have a really good time. she is smart, beautiful, fun...
so christ, call her up.
why? so i can realize she is not so smart. that she is boring. you do not get it. right now she is perfect, i do not want to ruin that.
and right now you are perfect too. maybe you do not want to ruin that.
i teach this shit, i did not say i knew how to do it.
you ever think about gettin' remarried?
my wife's dead.
hence, the word remarried.
my wife's dead.
well i think that is a wonderful philosophy, sean. that way you can go through the rest of your life without having to really know anyone.
where have you been?
I am sorry, i been real busy.
you were busy? you know, i really was waiting for you to call me.
sorry. I am sorry. give me another crack at it. let me take you out.
you should have called. i have an "o- chem" lab due tomorrow and it is impossible.  it is not an excuse dummy. i want to go out with you. but look:
promise?
if you bring the caramels.
i could not wait till tomorrow.
how the hell did you do that?
did not your mother ever tell you not to look a gift horse n the mouth?
I am supposed to understand this.
you are not going into surgery tomorrow are you?
no.
then let's go have some fun.
really? how did the date go? will do you still counsel veterans?  i read your book last night.
no, i don't.
why not?
i gave that up when my wife got sick.
is that why you did not write anything else?
i did not write anything else 'cause nobody, including most of my colleagues bothered to read the first one.
well, I have read you colleagues. your book was good, sean.  all those guys were in your platoon?
yeah.
what happened to that guy from kentucky?
lon? he got married. he has a kid. i kind of lost touch with him after nancy got sick.
do you ever wonder what your life would be like if you never met your wife?
what? do i wonder if I would be better off if i never met my wife?
you do not regret meetin' your wife?
why? because of the pain i feel now? i have regrets will, but i do not regret a singel day i spent with her.
when did you know she was the one?
october 21, 1975. game six of the world series. biggest game in red sox history, me and my friends slept out on the sidewalk all night to get tickets. we were sitting in a bar waiting for the game to start and in walks this girl. what a game that was. tie game in the bottom of the tenth inning, in steps carlton fisk, hit a long fly ball down the left field line. thirty-five thousand fans on their feet, screamin' at the ball to stay fair. fisk is runnin' up the baseline, wavin' at the ball like a madman. it hits the foul pole, home run. thirty-five thousand people went crazy. and i was not one of them.
where were you?
i was havin' a drink with my future wife.
you missed pudge fisk's homerun to have a drink with a woman you had never met?
that is right.
so wait a minute. the red sox have not won a world series since nineteen eighteen, you slept out for tickets, games going to start in twenty minutes, in walks a girl you never seen before, and you give your ticket away?
you should have seen this girl. she lit up the room.
i do not care if helen of troy walked into that bar! that is game six of the world series!
i just slid my ticket across the table and said "sorry fellas, i gotta go see about a girl."
"i gotta go see about a girl"? what did they say?
they could see that i meant it.
you are kiddin' me.
no will, I am not kiddin' you. if i had gone to see that game I would be in here talkin' abouta girl i saw at a bar twenty years ago. and how i always regretted not goin' over there and talkin' to her. i do not regret the eighteen years we were married. i do not regret givin' up couseling for six years when she got sick. i do not regret being by her side for the last two years when things got real bad. and i sure as hell do not regret missing that damn game.
would have been nice to catch that game though.
well hell, i did not know pudge was going to hit the home run.
alexander, i know your theory. the boy is updating, he is strategy stealing...
with a ramses graph on the binary tree--
--but what he is doing, he is attaching an edge to the adjacent vertex. he can always failsafe to either side--
maker can. this is not new, gerry!
no, there is a limit.
the limit is not found!  the limit is not found.
--maker builds "k" to the "n." n is three to the k times--
--but--
why do we always stay here?
'cause it is nicer than my place.
I have never seen your place.
exactly.
what about your friends? or your brothers? when do i get to meet them?
they do not come over here that much.
i think i can make it to south boston.
aah, it is kind of a hike.
is it me you are hiding from them or the other way around?
all right, all right. we will go.
when?
sometime. i do not know. next week.
what if i said i would not sleep with you again until you let me meet your friends?
I would say...  it is only four in the mornin', they are prob'ly up.
you men are shameful. if you are not thinking of your weiner then you are acting on its behalf.
then on behalf of my weiner, I would like to ask for an advance.
will, i can not believe you brought skylar here when we are all wrecked. what is she going to think about us?
yeah, morgan. it is a real rarity that we would be out drinkin'.
I have been shit faced for like two weeks.
oh great, tell her that! now she really thinks we are problem drinkers!
two weeks? that is nothin'. my uncle marty? will knows him. that guy fuckin' drinks like you have never seen! one night he was drivin' back to his house on i-93-- statie pulls him over.
oh shit.
guy's tryin' to walk the line--but he can not even fuckin' stand up, and so my uncle's going to spend a night in jail. just then there is this fuckin' boom like fifty yards down the road. some guy's car hit a tree.
some other guy?
yeah, he was probably drunker than my uncle, who fuckin' knows? so the cop goes "stay here" and he goes runnin' down the highway to deal with the other crash. so, my uncle marty's standin' on the side of the road for a little while, and he is so fuckin' lit, that he forgets what he is waitin' for. so he goes, "fuck it." he gets in his car and drives home.
holy shit.
so in the morning, there is a knock on the door it is the statie. so my uncle's like, "is there a problem?" and the statie's like "i pulled you over and you took off." and my uncle's like "i never seen you before in my life, i been home all night with my kids." and statie's like "let me get in your garage!" so he is like "all right, fine." he takes around the garage and opens the door --and the statie's cruiser is in my uncle's garage.
no way! you are kiddin'!
no, he was so hammered that he drove the police cruiser home. fuckin' lights and everything!
did your uncle get arrested?
the fuckin' trooper was so embarrassed he did not do anything. the fuckin' guy had been drivin' around in my uncle's car all night lookin' for the house.
it is a good thing no one's irish here.
I am irish.
I am glad you came by, changed my opinion of harvard people.
see ya' chuckie. i had fun.
i do not know what the fuck you are doin'. you are givin' us a ride.
what do i look like, al cowlins?  you want to take my car, drop her off?
i was countin' on it.
chuck, let's go.
you are walkin' bitch, will's takin' the car.
thanks, chuck.
do not get too slap-happy, you are takin' me home first. will i do not know, chuck. it is kinda outta the way.
i thought you said you would show me your place.
not tonight.
yeah, not tonight. not any other night. he knows, once you see that shit-hole he is gettin' dropped like a bad habit.
i wanted to meet your brothers...
gerry! any trouble finding the place?
not at all.
timmy this is gerry, an old friend of mine. we went to college together.
good to meet you.
pleasure to meet you.
you are here quite a bit, then.
i live right around the corner.
you moved?
i been here a couple years.
seems like it is going well.
i think so.
well, have you talked to him at all about his future?
we have not really gotten into it. lambeau maybe you should. my phone's been ringing off the hook with job offers.
jobs doing what?
cutting edge mathematics. think tanks. the kind of place where a mind like will's is given free reign.
that is great, gerry, that there is interest-- but I am not sure he is ready for that.
sean, i really do not think you understand--
what do not i understand?
excuse me, timmy. could you help us? we are trying to settle a bet.
uh-oh.
have you heard of jonas salk?
yeah, cured polio.
you have heard of albert einstein?
how about gerald lambeau? ever heard of him?
no. lambeau okay thank you, timmy.
so who won the bet?
i did.
he married his cousin.
who?
einstein. had two marriages, both train-wrecks. the guy never saw his kids, one of whom, i think, ended up in an asylum--
you see, sean? that is exactly not the point. no one remembers that. they--
i do.
well, you are the only one.
just...take it easy, gerry.
look, i do not know what else i can say. I am not sitting at home every night, twisting my mustache and hatching a plan to ruin the boy's life. but it is important to start early. i was doing advanced mathematics at eighteen and it still took me twenty-three years to do something worthy of a field's medal.
maybe he does not care about that.
sean, this is important. and it is above personal rivalry--
now wait a minute, gerry--
--no, no you hear me out, sean. this young man is a true prodigy--
--personal rivalry? I am not getting back at you.
look, you took one road and i took another. that is fine.
is it gerry? 'cause i do not think it is fine with you. give him time to figure out what he wants.
that is a wonderful theory, sean. it worked wonders for you.
I am not sure--
--these circumstances are mitigated. right now. they are mitigated.
will, our offer starts you at eighty- four thousand a year, plus benefits.
retainer...
you want us to give you cash right now?
allegedly, what i am saying is your situation will be concurrently improved if i had two hundred sheets in my pocket right now.
i do not think i...larry?
i have about seventy-three...
will you take a check?
come now...what do you think i am, a juvinile? you do not got any money on you right now. you think I am going to take a check? executive it is fine, john, i can cover the rest.
how is it goin'?
fine.
want me to take a look?
no.
c'mon, give me a peek and we will go to the battin' cages.
it is important that i learn this.
why is it important to you? if i inherited all that money, the only thing important to me would be workin' on my swing.
clearly.
you are rich. what do you have to worry about?
rich? i have an inheritance. it is two handred and fifty thousand dollars. that is exactly what it will cost me, minus about five hundred bucks, to go all the way through med school. this is what I am doing with that money. i could have done anything i wanted. i could have expanded my wardrobe, substantially.
instead you are going to bust your ass for five years so you can be broke? skylar no, so i can be a doctor.
all right, mr. nosey parker. let me ask you a question? do you have a photographic memory?
i guess. i do not know. how do you remember your phone number?
have you ever studied organic chemistry?
some, a little.
just for fun?
i guess so.
nobody does organic chemistry for "fun." it is unnecessary. especially for someone like you.
like me?
yeah. someone like you who divides his time, fairly evenly, between the batting cages and bars.
do you play the piano?
come one will. i just want to know.
I am trying to explain it to you. so you play the piano. when you look at the keys, you see music, you see mozart.
i see "hot cross buns," but okay.
well all right, beethoven. he looked at a piano and saw music. the fuckin' guy was deaf when he composed the ode to joy. they had to turn him around to take a bow because he could not hear the crowd going crazy behind him. stone deaf. he saw all of that music in his head.
so, do you play the piano?
not a lick. i look at a piano and i see black and white keys, three pedals and a box of wood. beethoven, mozart, they looked at it and it just made sense to them. they saw a piano and they could play. i could not paint you a picture, i probably can not hit the ball out of fenway park and i can not play the piano--
--but you can do my o-chem lab in under an hour, you can--
--when it came to stuff like that i could always just play.
hi.
how you doin'?
good.
how did you know where to find me?
you were the only sullivan in the phone book.
oh, right.
this is your house, right?
i guess so.
what? no. this is my mother's house. i do not live with my mother. i just stop by, help out. I am good like that.
is this a bad time?
she will live.  if she starts yelling again i might have to run in real quick and beat her with the stick again but...
okay.
let's take a walk. ext. chuckie's street -- day
see, now this does not feel right.  when i made the decision to come over here it felt right. i had all these rationalizations... i just do not understand why will never tells me anything, he will not let me get close to him, he tells me these weird lies--
you caught that, huh?
i just wanted to find out what was going on...but now that I am here it seems strange, does not it?
well, i do not have no trousers on...
i do not care what his family's like or if he does not have any brothers, but he does not have to lie to me.
i really do not know what to say. look, i lie to women all the time. that is just my way.  last week morgan brought these girls down from roslindale. i told them i was a cosmonaut. they believed me. but will's not usually like that--
is that true?
yeah, it is.
this is correct. i see you used mclullen here--
i do not know what it is called.
--this can not be right.  this is going to be very embarrassing. have you ever considered--
I am pretty sure it is right.
can i ask you a favor, can we do this at sean's from now on? 'cause i leave work to come here and the fuckin' commute is killin' me--
that is fine, but did you ever think--
it is right.  take it home with you.
will, what happened at the tri-tech meeting?
i could not go 'cause i had a date. so i sent my cheif negotiator.
will, on your own time, you can do what you like. when i set up a meeting, with my associates, and you do not show up it reflects poorly on me.
then do not set up any more meetings.
I will cancel every meeting right now. I will give you a job myself. i just wanted you to see what was out there.
--maybe i do not want to spend my life sittin' around and explaining shit to people.
the least you can do is show me a little appreciation.
--you know how fuckin' easy this is to me? this is a joke!  and I am sorry you can not do this. i really am. 'cause if you could i would not be forced to watch you fumble around and fuck it up.
sure, then you would have more time to sit around and get drunk. think of how many fights you could have been in by now.
well, I am sorry.
so am i.  yes. that is right, will. most days i wish i never met you. because then i could sleep at night. i would not have to walk around with the knowledge that someone like you was out there. and i would not have to watch you throw it all away.
will? are you awake?
no.
come with me to california.
what?
i want you to come with me.
how do you know that?
i know. i just do.
yeah, but how do you know?
i do not know. i just feel it.
and you are sure about that?
yeah, I am sure.
'cause that is a serious thing you are sayin'. i mean, we might be in california next week and you could find out somethin' about me that you do not like. and you might feel like "hey this is a big mistake."  but you can not take it back, 'cause you know it is real serious and you can not take somethin' like that back. now I am in california, 'cause you asked me to come. but you do not really want me there. and I am stuck in california with someone who really does not want me there and just wishes they had a take-back.
"take-back?" what is that? i do not want a take-back. i want you to come to california with me.
i can not go out to california.
why not?
one, because i have a job here and two because i live here--
look, will if you are not in love with me, you can say that.
I am not sayin' I am not in love with you.
then what are you afraid of?
what do you mean "what am i afraid of?"
why will not you come with me? what are you so scared of?
what am i scared of?
well, what are not you scared of? you live in your safe little world where nobody challenges you and you are scared shitless to do anything else--
--don't tell me about my world. you are the one that is afraid. you just want to have your little fling with the guy from the other side of town and marry--
is that what you think--
--some prick from stanford that your parents will approve of. then you will sit around with the rest of the upper crust kids and talk about how you went slummin' too.
i inherited that money when i was thirteen, when my father died.
at least you have a mother.
fuck you! you think i want this? that money's a burden to me. every day i wake up and i wish i could give that back. I would give everything i have back to spend one more day with my father. but that is life. and i deal with it. so do not put that shit on me. you are the one that is afraid.
what the fuck am i afraid of?!
you are afraid of me. you are afraid that i will not love you back. and guess what? I am afraid too. but at least i have the balls to it give it a shot. at least I am honest with you.
I am not honest?
what about your twelve brothers?
oh, is that what this is about? you want to hear that i do not really have any brothers? that I am a fuckin' orphan? is that what you want to hear?
yes, will. i did not even know that?
no, you do not want to hear that.
yes, i do, will.
you do not want to hear that i got cigarettes put out on me when i was a little kid. that this is not surgery
yes i do. did you ever think that maybe i could help you? that maybe that is the point, that we are a team?
what, you want to come in here and save me? is that what you want to do? do i have a sign that says "save me" on my back?
i do not want to "save" you. i just want to be with you. i love you. i love you!
do not bullshit me! do not fuckin' bullshit me!
you know what i want to hear? i want to hear that you do not love me. if you tell me that, then I will leave you alone. i will not ask any questions and i will not be in your life.
so why do you think i should work for the national security agency?
well, you would be working on the cutting edge. you would be exposed to the kind of technology you could not see anywhere else because we have classified it. super string theory, chaos math, advanced algorithms--
codebreaking.
that is one aspect of what we do.
come on, that is what you do. you handle more than eighty percent of the intelligence workload. you are seven times the size of the c.i.a.
that is exactly right, will. so the question as i see it is not "why should you work for n.s.a." it is "why should not you?"
why should not i work for the national security agency? that is a tough one.
what is up guys?
why do not you beat off at your house?
i do not have a vcr at my house.
i just wanted to call before you left.  I am takin' all these job interviews. so i will not just be a construction worker.
i never cared about that.
yeah.
i love you, will.  no take-backs.
take care.
goodbye.
what are you smiling at?
it is a carlton fisk baseball card.
so you might be working for uncle sam.
i do not know.
gerry says the meeting went well.
i guess.
what did you think?
what did i think?
do you think you are alone?
what?
do you have a soul-mate?
define that.
someone who challenges you in every way. who takes you places, opens things up for you. a soul-mate.
yeah.
they are all dead.
not to me, they are not.
but you can not give back to them, will.
not without a heater and some serious smelling salts, no...
that is what I am saying, will. you will never have that kind of relationship in a world where you are afraid to take the first step because all you are seeing are the negative things that might happen ten miles down the road.
oh, what? you are going to take the professor's side on this?
do not give me you line of shit.
i did not want the job.
it is not about that job. I am not saying you should work for the government. but, you could do anything you want. and there are people who work their whole lives layin' brick so their kids have a chance at the kind of opportunity you have. what do you want to do?
i did not ask for this.
nobody gets what they ask for, will. that is a cop-out.
why is it a cop-out? i do not see anythin' wrong with layin' brick, that is somebody is home I am buildin'. or fixin' somebody is car, somebody is going to get to work the next day 'cause of me. there is honor in that.
you are right, will. any man who takes a forty minute train ride so those college kids can come in in the morning and their floors will be clean and their trash cans will be empty is an honorable man.
what?
if you will not answer my questions, you are wasting my time.
what?
i been there. i played my hand.
that is right. and you fuckin' lost! and some people would have the sack to lose a big hand like that and still come back and ante up again!
look at me. what do you want to do?
what should i do?
the boy was here. he came in, sat down and we worked together.
how is the woman?
gone.
what?
she went to medical school in california.
sorry, brother.  i do not know what to tell ya. you know all the girls i been with. you been with 'em too, except for cheryl mcgovern which was a big mistake on your part brother...
oh I am sure, that is why only one of us has herpes.
some shows are worth the price of admission, partner.
suck my crank. fuckin' sheet metal pussy.  so, when are you done with those meetin's?
week after I am twenty-one.
are they hookin' you up with a job?
yeah, sit in a room and do long division for the next fifty years.
yah, but it is better than this shit. at least you would make some nice bank.
yeah, be a fuckin' lab rat.
it is a way outta here.
what do i want a way outta here for? i want to live here the rest of my life. i want to be your next door neighbor. i want to take out kids to little league together up foley field.
look, you are my best friend, so do not take this the wrong way, but in 20 years, if you are livin' next door to me, comin' over watchin' the fuckin' patriots' games and still workin' construction, I will fuckin' kill you. and that is not a threat, that is a fact. I will fuckin' kill you.
chuckie, what are you talkin'...
listen, you got somethin' that none of us have.
why is it always this? i owe it to myself? what if i do not want to?
fuck you. you owe it to me. tomorrow I am going to wake up and I will be fifty and I will still be doin' this. and that is all right 'cause I am going to make a run at it. but you, you are sittin' on a winning lottery ticket and you are too much of a pussy to cash it in. and that is bullshit 'cause I would do anything to have what you got! and so would any of these guys. it would be a fuckin' insult to us if you are still here in twenty years.
you do not know that.
let me tell you what i do know. every day i come by to pick you up, and we go out drinkin' or whatever and we have a few laughs. but you know what the best part of my day is? the ten seconds before i knock on the door 'cause i let myself think i might get there, and you would be gone. I would knock on the door and you would not be there. you just left.
this is a disaster! i brought you in here to help me with this boy, not to run him out--
now wait a minute--
--and confuse him--
--gerry--
--and here i am for the second week in a row with my professional reputation at stake--
hold on!
--ready to falsify documents because you have given him license to walk away from this.
i know what I am doing and i know why I am here!
look sean, i do not care if you have a rapport with the boy-- i do not care if you have a few laughs-- even at my expense! but do not you dare undermine what I am trying to do here.
"undermine?"
he has a gift and with that gift comes responsibility. and you do not understand that he is at a fragile point--
he is at a fragile point. he is got problems--
what problems does he have, sean, that he is better off as a janitor or in jail or hanging around with--
why do you think he does that, gerry?
he can handle the work, he can handle the pressure and he is obviously handled you.
why is he hiding? why is he a janitor? why does not he trust anybody? because the first thing that happened to him was that he was abandoned by the people who were supposed to love him the most!
oh, come on, sean--
--and why does he hang out with his friends? because any one of those kids would come in here and take a bat to your head if he asked them to. it is called loyalty!
oh, that is nice--
--and who do you think he is handling? he pushes people away before they have a chance to leave him. and for 20 years he is been alone because of that. and if you try to push him into this, it is going to be the same thing all over again. and I am not going to let that happen to him!
now do not do that. do not you do that! do not infect him with the idea that it is okay to quit. that it is okay to be a failure, because it is not okay! if you are angry at me for being successful, for being what you could have been--
--i'm not angry at you--
--yes you are, sean. you resent me. and I am not going to apologize for any success that I have had.
--i do not have any anger at you--
yes you do. you are angry at me for doing what you could have done. ask yourself if you want will to feel that way for the rest of his life, to feel like a failure.
that is it. that is why i do not come to the goddamn reunions! becaue i can not stand the look in your eye when you see me! you think I am a failure! i know who i am. I am proud of who i am. and all of you, you think I am some kind of pity case! you with your sycophant students following you around. and you goddamn medal!
--is that what this is about, sean? the field's medal? do you want me to go home and get it for you? then will you let the boy--
--i do not want your trophy and i do not give a shit about it! 'cause i knew you when!! you and jack and tom sanders. i knew you when you were homesick and pimply-faced and did not know what side of the bed to piss on!
that is right! you were smarter than us then and you are smarter than us now! so do not blame me for how your life turned out. it is not my fault.
i do not blame you! it is not about that! it is about the boy! 'cause he is a good kid! and i will not see this happen to him-- i will not see you make him feel like a failure too!
he will not be a failure!
if you push him into something, if you ride him--
you are wrong, sean. I am where i am today because i was pushed. and because i learned to push myself!
he is not you!
i can come back.
no, that is fine, will. i was just leaving.
well, I am here.  so, is that my problem? I am afraid of being abandoned? that was easy.
look, a lot of that stuff goes back a long way.  and it is between me and him and it has nothing to do with you.
do you want to talk about it?
oh, this is your file. i have to send it back to the judge with my evaluation.
you are not going to fail me are you?
you want to read it?
no.  have you had any experience with that?
twenty years of counselling you see a lot of--
--no, have you had any experience with that?
yes.
it sure am not good.
gotta go with the belt there...
i used to go with the wrench.
the wrench, why?
cause fuck him, that is why.
oh, i know.
it is not your fault.
i know.
it is not your fault.
i know.
it is not your fault.
i know.
it is not your fault.
do not fuck with me.
it is not your fault.
i know.
it is not...
i know, i know...
oh my god, i got the most fucked up thing i been meanin' to tell you.
save it for your mother, funny guy. we heard it before.
oh, morgan.
you and morgan throw?
no, i had to talk him down.
why did not you yoke him?
little morgan's got a lot a scrap, dude. I would rather fight a big kid, they never fight, everyone's scared of 'em. you know how many people try to whip morgan's ass every week? fuckin' kid will not back down.
what did you say about me?
shut the fuck up.
hey, asshole. happy birthday.
you thought we forgot, did not you? i know I am gettin' my licks in.
you are kiddin' me.
yeah, i figured now that you got your big job over in cambridge, you needed some way to get over there and i knew i was not going to drive you every day...
me and bill scraped together the parts, worked on it. morgan was out panhandlin' every day.
fuck you, i did the body work. whose fuckin' router you think sanded out all that bondo?
guy's been up my ass for two years about a fuckin' job. i had to let him help with the car.
so, you finally got a job morgan?
had one, now I am fucked again.
so what do you got, a fuckin' hyundai engine under there? can i make it back to my house?
which one did you take, will?
over at tri-tech. one of the jobs professor lambeau set me up with. i have not told him yet, but i talked to my new boss over there and he seemed like a nice guy.
that is what you want?
yeah, i think so.
good for you. congratulations.
thanks you.  so, that is it? we are done?
we are done. you did your time. you are a free man.
i just want you to know, sean...
you are welcome, will.
I will keep in touch.
I am going to travel a little bit, so i do not know where I will be.
no. thank you.
does this violate the patient/doctor relationship?
only if you grab my ass.
see ya.
good luck.
will.
hey, how you doin'?
you know, you are no longer required to come here.
i was just sayin' goodbye to sean.
sam called me. from tri-tech. he says you start working for them next week.
thank you.
i just want you to know...it's been a pleasure.
bullshit.
this job... do it if it is what you really want.
i appreciate that.
yes.
listen, I will be nearby so, if you need some help, or you get stuck again, do not be afraid to give me a call.
thank you, will. I will do that.
hello, sean.
come in.
sean...
me too.
so i hear you are taking some time.
yeah. summer vacation. thought I would travel some. maybe write a little bit.
where are you going?
i do not know. india maybe.
why there?
never been.
do you know when you will be back?
i got this mailer the other day. class of sixty-five is having this event in six months.
i got one of those too.
you should come. I will buy you a drink.
how about one now?
sounds good.
sean, do you have any idea what the odds are against winning the lottery?
i do not know... got to be at least four to one.
about thirty million to one.
you are pretty quick with those numbers. how about the odds of me buying the first round?
about thirty million to one.
