is that for me?
no -- madam grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
madam grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
for me?
no -- madam grusinskaya's car is not to be brought.
madam grusinskaya's car is not to be brought.
good evening -- my key -- one sixty- eight.
good evening, mr. pimenov.
oh -- good evening, baron.
how is the beautiful lady?
grusinskaya -- well, to tell the truth, baron -- tonight we are a little bit nervous. were you at the theatre last night?
certainly -- always when grusinskaya dances.
well -- last night was not so good.
i thought she was splendid!
yes -- but the audience.
it is always so quiet here.
if you occupied the room next to madam grusinskaya, you would appreciate the quiet of a hotel lobby.
my dear sir, i would gladly change rooms with you.
no doubt you would, baron. but do you know, I am quite indispensable to her. I am her ballet master and her nurse. i hardly belong to myself anymore. but, there you are, it is grusinskaya -- you can not help adoring her.
ach! here you are, doctor zinnowitz.
have i kept you waiting?
waiting -- I am waiting for news from manchester.
no news yet?
no. no word.
everything depends on the manchester merger.
i know -- i know.
i saw gerstenkorn at lunch -- and as your lawyer i made it my business to broach the matter ---
for me?
no -- letters to two-eighty.
if a young woman, a stenographer, -- etc.
any letters?
no, doctor.
telegrams?
no, doctor.
anyone asked for me?
nobody, doctor.
the war.
that is doctor otternschlag -- you know him?
yes -- he always seems to be waiting for something -- and nothing ever comes.
the war dropped him here and forgot him.
yes, i was in the war.
if you will wait one moment, sir.
i will not wait -- i can not wait -- i waited three days before i got a room at all and what a room that is.
it is a very nice room and inexpensive, sir.
did i say i wanted a cheap room to live in -- when i came here did i ask for a cheap room? did i?
just one moment, sir.
no, i will not wait -- i can not -- every day is precious -- every hour -- every minute.
the gentleman is dissatisfied with room number five fifty-nine.
i certainly have a complaint -- and a fair one.
i came here from a long distance to stay at the grand hotel. i want a room -- a big room -- like you would give general director preysing -- I am as good as mr. preysing -- i can pay like mr. preysing -- would you give him a little room, way up in the corner with the hot water pipes going -- bang -- bang -- bang...
this gentleman can have my room.
oh!
send his bags up to my room.
oh -- but -- i --
you are tired. i can see that.
yes -- yes -- i am tired. i have been ill...
you are ill.
mr. kringelein will take room number one-seventy-six, one of our most expensive rooms. it is large and on the front with bath.
does that mean that the bath is my own? --- private?
certainly, sir.
well, now, that is very kind -- thanks. that is what i want -- a large room on the front with a private bath -- yes, that is what i want. i can pay now if you like.
thank you, sir.
not at all, sir.
permit me -- my name is kringelein -- from fredersdorf.
I am baron von gaigern.
oh, a baron!
and this is doctor otternschlag.
oh -- doctor -- you are a doctor -- i am --
i know -- i know -- when a man's collar is an inch too big for him -- i know he is ill.
yes -- oh -- oh -- yes, --
will mr. kringelein kindly register.
again?
please.
have you a minute now?
no -- i told you not to come in this lobby.
time's getting short.
I have told you a hundred times not to speak to me with a cigarette in your mouth.
i want to speak --
not now.
yes, sir.
the stenographer is to go up -- mr. preysing telephoned.
mr. preysing -- one sixty-four.
what...! --
I am the stenographer.
then you will please wait outside.
like dancing?
not with strangers.
never?
you are a fool!
yes, i am rather.
he must be very nice.
who?
whoever is keeping you waiting.
have you seen it?
oh, my large and noisy neighbor -- really? that?
that.
you?
oh -- work!!
oh!
dictation.  you know...
oh... poor child. if you were free, I would ask you to come and have some tea -- but --
tea would spoil my dinner.  one meal a day, I would hate to spoil it.
reducing?
no -- why? -- should i?
lord no -- charming -- but why one meal a day?
money -- ever heard of it?
yes -- yes indeed -- but you are a...  ...a stenographer. do not little stenographers earn little pennies?
very little.
too bad.
did you ever see a stenographer with a decent frock on? -- one that she would bought herself?
poor child --  i wish i were free tonight -- we could --
are not you?
what?
free --
unfortunately no -- to bad -- tomorrow though.
tomorrow? what time tomorrow?
shall we say five of the clock -- downstairs?
where downstairs?
yellow room where they dance --
you are very funny --
yes? -- tomorrow?
of course.
really?
we will dance.
all right. we will dance.
if i could trouble the baron to come and see this beautiful room. i have ordered champagne. perhaps the baroness could join us.
waiter, oh waiter! wait a minute!  we are having caviar -- it is expensive but that makes no difference -- i see the baroness is laughing.
have caviar if you like, but it tastes like herring to me.
always the performance -- every day the performance -- time for the performance.  i think, suzette, i have never been so tired in my life.  veronal did not even help me to sleep.
madam grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
i can not dance tonight --
it will pass -- it will pass -- come.
let us cancel the engagement.
but, madam. cannot do that.
now is the time to cancel to stop entirely. i feel it -- everything tells me -- enough -- enough.
mon dieu -- the pearls -- if they were to break --
the pearls will not break -- they hold together and bring me bad luck ---- i hate them!
orchids come again, madam -- no card -- i think perhaps they are from the same young man -- he is at the end of the corridor -- tall -- he walks like a soldier -- madam must have noticed how often he is in the elevator with us. last night for instance --
oh, suzette -- suzette -- sshh -- quiet.
ah, oui -- the car is here for madam.
send it away -- i shall not need it.
it is time for the performance.
the performance -- the performance -- the performance.
it is not stage fright -- it is something more --
what -- what is it? last night...
last night?... there was no applause.
there was -- there was.
that theatre -- half empty -- dancing for those few -- i was frantic -- i finished -- the last beat and...  ...i waited -- i listened -- but the applause did not come -- nothing. a man in the box -- and just the claques behind -- it is passed, pimenov. we are dead -- it is finished.
what is this that you have cancelled your car? who am i that i should wait like a fool at the door? and here on a whim, you cancel your car. have you forgotten there is a performance? do you know the time? or, are we all mad? am i your manager?... have we a contract? have we obligations? am i blind?  ...or is that the time?
I am cancelling the engagement.
oh!
oh! madam is cancelling the engagement. madam has chosen a funny time for such a funny joke. ha, ha, ha -- hurry, come on. tonight -- there is a line in front of the theatre since six o'clock. the house is jammed to the roof.
the house is not full -- is it really full?
packed to the ceiling. hurry -- get dressed. and what an audience -- the french ambassador -- american millionaires -- princess ratzville -- er -- er --
oh -- but it can not be.
oh, come, madam -- please come.
all right, suzette -- quickly -- hurry.
we will wait.
you are late. hurry.
how is the house?
terrible. after this, no more ballets for me. jazz --  just jazz.
if the house is empty again, i do not know --
when she gets her paint on and hears the music -- she will be all right. i know these people.
you may laugh. caviar and champagne may mean nothing to you, but to me -- they mean a great deal. you see, I am ill and all of a sudden i got a fear of missing life. i do not want to miss life -- do you understand?
you are funny. you speak of life as if it were a train you wanted to catch.
yes -- and for me, it is going to leave at any minute. let's drink.
I am sure this beautiful room must appeal to your taste -- distinctive, do not you think? velvet upholstery -- 'a-number one'. I am in the textile trade and i know.  and these are real silk drapes.
silk -- think of that -- silk -- they are, too.
have you seen the bathroom? -- hot and cold running water -- you see, i can get a bath whenever i like.
her master's voice!  i must go now -- goodbye -- thanks.
oh, do not go.
I am engaged for the evening.
oh, can anyone engage you for the evening?
to take dictation -- a mr. preysing --  goodbye, you -- tomorrow at five o'clock.
what is the matter, mr. kringelein?
general director preysing!  baron, when i was sixteen years old, i started as an office boy in that man's factory --
then you know him?
do i know him -- i know him through and through.
you will stay, doctor -- if you have nothing better to do?
i have nothing better to do, mr. kringelein.
perhaps you could present me now, mr. pimenov.
please, baron -- forgive me -- not now -- here she is.
suzette -- i told you not to bring the pearls. i will not wear them tonight.
why not?
take them back, suzette.
you have not time.
hurry, suzette.
such nonsense.
no news from manchester yet -- do you think we ought to postpone the conference?
good heavens no. that would create the very worst impression. you must be optimistic. you must convince them. you know as well as i do that the merger must go through.
yes -- the merger must go through -- but i am used to making my deals on a solid basis. i am not a liar. i am an honest business man -- a good husband and father -- i have a sense of honor -- i have nothing to conceal. i could not live happily otherwise.
well, do not get excited about it. we agreed that the merger with the saxonia people must go through.
i want to dictate my statement for tomorrow. i can not speak without notes. i like to have things down before me in black and white.
I will see you in the morning then, at the conference. everything'll be all right, preysing... do not worry. goodnight.
good night.
moreover --
moreover --
moreover...
moreover...
do you work in justice zinnowitz' office?
no -- only occasional jobs.
tired?
you pay me.
you are a very unusual stenographer --
moreover...
moreover...
i do not see why it is unusual for a stenographer to be pretty -- if she does her work well, -- seems so silly. i do not know why they do not like girls like me in offices. personally, i hate offices -- I would much rather be in the movies.
movies?
yes, i photograph very well. look --
what is this?
i got ten marks for that.
you...
me.
you...
moreover...
what?
only in mutual advantages -- moreover.
what brown hands you have.
that is from skiing.
skiing?
yes... a man i know took me to switzerland last month...
a man? -- to switzerland? -- that must have been nice -- for him.
only in mutual advantages -- moreover...
moreover... he was a lucky man -- that man.
perhaps.
do not misunderstand me. I am a married man -- with grownup daughters. uh --
moreover -- do you mind if i smoke?  i went to florence once, too.
with the same friend?
no.
moreover, the possibility of the successful termination of negotiations now pending with the manchester cotton company...
not too quickly.
what?
you are a little too fast.
can not you understand me?
i understand you perfectly.
have you got it now?
cotton company --
should throw a great weight into the balance...
...weight into the balance...
how nice -- your daughters?
my daughters -- yes, my daughters.
is that mrs. preysing.
definitely off.
oh -- too bad. did you quarrel?
that will be all -- be here tomorrow at nine o'clock.
you are late -- the dancer's gone to the theatre.
well?
she is gone to the theatre -- do not you know?
yes.
and what are you going to do?
the pearls are in her room.
now listen to me. the others are getting suspicious of you. i was on the telephone to amsterdam today, they think you are scared.
I have been careful, I have been waiting my chance.
you have been waiting your chance. you are too much of a gentleman -- that is the trouble with you.
i told you I will get the pearls tonight.
need any help?
no.
have you got that skeleton key?
no --
why?
the floor clerk is out there in the corridor -- she sees everything ---
i could take care of her.
how?
chloroform on a handkerchief from behind -- while you...
no -- no -- no -- no...
why?
poor girl -- chloroform would give her a rotten headache... i know -- i had it in the war. besides, she is very pretty -- not young but --
you are no good for this business. it is just a joke to you...
i do not like your tone.
no --
get out and leave it to me... be ready to leave on the night train for amsterdam...
with the pearls?
with the pearls --
i suppose i can cancel the vienna engagement.
i wish to be alone.
you will be very much alone, my dear madame. this is the end.
please do not be frightened, madam.
what do you want here?
nothing -- only to be here.
why do you hide in my room?
but surely you must know -- because i love you.
because you love me -- you love me?
poor little grusinskaya! does it do you good to cry? are you afraid? shall i go?
i was so alone -- always alone -- and suddenly you were there and said that.  no. i am not afraid. it is strange.
do not cry -- it tears my heart to see you sob like that.
nerves -- just nerves. you must forgive me. i have had a bad evening. i am very tired. do you know what it is to be tired -- tired of a routine existence?
I am afraid not -- i usually do just what i feel like doing at the moment.
so you feel like coming into a lady's room -- and you come... what now?
I would like to smoke a cigarette.
certainly.
why do you look at me like that?
i did not know you were so beautiful... and --
and then --?
no irony. you are so appealing -- so soft -- so tired. i feel like taking you in my arms and not letting anything more happen to you -- ever.
and -- and --
how tired you are!
yes -- tired...
so alone.
alone. all alone.  oh, you strange -- strange creature.
you must not talk russian to me.
strange man...
am i quite strange to you?
not quite strange now. it is as if i had been expecting you. you know, once when the grand duke was alive, i found a man hiding in my room -- a young officer --
and...?
he disappeared. later he was found dead.
i never knew it was so dangerous to hide in a woman's room when she is alone.
go away. who are you --?
a man who could love -- that is all, who has forgotten everything else for you.
you could love me. it is so long since i have heard that word. nobody has loved me for a long time. it is so icy-cold to be famous. one is so cruelly alone. how is it that you -- let me look at you. your hands. your eyes. why could you love me?
i saw you just now -- then i saw you cry -- and now i see you in the mirror -- grusinskaya...
grusinskaya... oh -- oh if you knew how i slaved and slaved for grusinskaya -- for the success of grusinskaya -- for the triumph of grusinskaya... and what is she now? just someone who has found that on the day success ceases life ceases -- are you listening to me -- do you understand? -- i want you to understand.
yes -- i do understand.
i think you must go now -- the key is on the floor.
I am not going -- you know I am not going -- let me stay here?
i want to be alone.
that is not so -- you do not want to be alone.
i want to be alone --
no -- you do not want to be alone at all -- you were in despair before -- if i left you, you would feel worse than you did before, you must not be alone -- you must not cry -- you must forget... tell me that i can stay with you -- tell me.
just for a minute then.
the stage frays one's nerves... the discipline -- it is so exacting. discipline means doing what you do not want to do and take no pleasure in doing. do you know what i mean? have you ever experienced the weariness that comes from discipline?
i? -- oh, no. i do only what i take pleasure in doing.
i see -- you do only what you take pleasure in doing. you take pleasure in coming into a woman's bedroom and you come. you take pleasure in a dangerous climb onto a balcony, so you do it... and what is your pleasure now?
i should like to smoke.
why do you smile?
because i can see something in the mirror that you cannot. my dear --
what can you see?
you are beautiful!
no.
beautiful but so sad. i did not know it was so dangerous to look into a woman's bedroom.
I am not going... you know that I am not going... do you think i could leave you alone here? after that --?
what?
the veronal -- you. I am going to stay here with you.
i want to be alone.
that is not the truth.  you do not want to be alone -- you are afraid of being alone -- i know you are afraid. i know you. you were desperate, just now, if i go away you will be more desperate than ever. say i am to stay with you... say it.
oh, but doctor. is not this wonderful. to live -- to live -- in the grand hotel.
the grand hotel.
oh, but doctor. the music -- the champagne -- girls when they dance -- all the shining ice in those big silver things -- that is life --
life! -- mr. kringelein, you are drunk -- good night.
but doctor --
nine-thirty, mr. preysing keeps us waiting.
he likes to play the great man.
and ask me what it is costing us to hammer it down.
exactly.
if the preysing people get the manchester contract, we shall certainly merge with the preysing company -- but if they have not they are ruined -- preysing will have to declare himself.
shhh -- here he is now.
oh -- ho -- you want legal aid against us? -- the whole thing seems to me to be very simple.
very simple -- I have always liked the way you dressed, preysing -- english, is not it?
what?
they turn out marvelous material in manchester.
manchester -- yes. yes, yes, they do. yes -- now gentlemen shall we begin at the beginning? -- have we cigars -- water and everything?
there is a lot of business to be done with the manchester cotton company. they have the whole english market right in their hands. have you any connections with -- manchester?
we have a good many connections in england, naturally.
i mean with the manchester people?
we are here to discuss our merger. naturally i can make no statement at this time. we must begin at the beginning.
all right.
since, on the eleventh of june, this year -- when the first negotiations for a merger between our respective firms was entered into -- both parties have fully agreed that this merger can result only in mutual advantages.
oh -- yes -- i beg your pardon!
I am laying before you the last general statement of our concern. active capital, plant and machinery, raw material and finished product -- for instance -- mop rags --
mop rags --!
what we want to know about is manchester.
yes, mr. preysing -- that is what we want to know.
I would like to wait for justice zinnowitz, before i commit myself.
oh -- preysing, preysing --
no water -- what a place!
all you have to do is phone for it.
now to proceed with the projected merger, the advantages for the saxonia are so obvious...
oh -- now let's talk like adults. you want to tell us now a along story of what your factory can do. we know all that you could tell us and if you tell the truth it would not sound so good. when you first approached us...
we did not approach you.
tentative my foot -- a month before this your old father-in-law came very privately and scratched at my door.
scratched --  we did not take the initiative.
of course you took the initiative.
good morning, gentlemen -- i see the conference is already underway.
oh, here you are, justice zinnowitz -- I am at cross-purposes with these gentlemen -- will you clear up the situation?
but the situation is perfectly clear, if you will allow me --
how clear is manchester?
foggy -- frightfully foggy, always, I am told.  have you said anything about manchester, mr. preysing?
i can make no statement about manchester at this time.
well -- gentlemen.
since, on the eleventh of june of this year -- when the first negotiations for a merger...
thank god we are beginning at the beginning.
as you remember it -- when you approached us...
we did not approach you.
i know you did -- i said you did --
and i said we didn't.
oh -- i was ambitious then -- ambition was in my blood -- no rest, no stopping. we were drilled like little soldiers -- we danced in the school of the imperial ballet, in st. petersburg. i was little and slim but hard as diamond -- a duty machine -- no rest, no stopping. and then -- i became famous and whoever is famous is alone... but why should i be telling you this? last night i did not know you at all -- who are you, really? -- i do not even know your name.
i am felix benvenuto von gaigern. my mother called me flix.
flix. -- and how do you live? what kind of a person are you?
I am a prodigal son, the black sheep of a white flock -- i shall die on the gallows.
really?
really, i have not a bit of character. none at all.
no?
when i was a little boy i was taught to ride and be a gentleman -- at school, it was a monastery, i learned to pray and lie -- and ---
and?
and then, in the war, to kill and hide. that is all.
and what do you do -- now?
I am a gambler -- I am running at large like a happy pig, devouring anything of life that pleases me, i really belong in jail
oh! what a picture -- and what else?
I am also a criminal and a hotel thief.
that is a silly joke.
please look at me. you must believe me -- you must believe that i love you -- that i have never known what love is -- until last night.
what is the matter?
there.
oh --
you may keep the pearls -- i do not want them any more -- I will make you a present of them.
i do not want them now.
I will not denounce you.
i know.
so --
yesterday i was a thief -- but now, --
but now, you must go... i give you the pearls. but now you must go ---
i wanted money desperately -- can you understand? -- that is why i wanted the pearls. i was threatened -- i was desperately in need of a certain big sum of money. I have been following you -- I have admired you. but i have forced myself not to think about you -- last night, at last, i managed to came into your room and -- and now.
and now?
i could not go through with it.  remarkable.
do you understand?
yes -- yes -- yes.
good morning, suzette.
good morning, madam.
madam has slept well?
oh, yes, suzette.
madam will dress now, it is late.
five minutes, suzette, come back in five minutes. I will ring.
yes, madam suzette knows all about it.
grusinskaya --
yes.
you do believe that i really love you?
yes -- if i did not believe that, I would die after last night.
i want to be good to you -- madly good.
suzette will be back here in a minute.
I will go -- good-bye.
shall i see you again?
i --
suzette will be back here any minute.
when are you leaving berlin?
very early in the morning.
for vienna?
can not -- can not you -- could not you come too -- i think it would be better -- for us -- for us both.
oh -- yes but -- later.
why later?
i have no money now -- i must get some first -- i must get some.
I will give you what you need -- i have money.
oh no -- that would spoil everything. I will -- i will manage somehow -- I will manage myself. i will go with you. when does the train leave?
six twenty-seven in the morning... but the money?
never mind -- I will get it. i have a whole day. I will be on that train.
you must go now. be careful on your way to your room.
I will go. -- i love you.  I will be on that train. I will get the money.
do not do anything foolish -- I am alarmed about you.
do not worry. I will be on the train.  he leaves.
good morning, pimenov.
good morning, gru -- your --
gru -- you are positively radiant.
yes, pimenov.  one minute, suzette, i will call you.
any letters?
no, doctor.
madam grusinskaya -- at once --
your chauffeur's been waiting, baron.
baron, we must have gone a hundred miles an hour, at least...
yes, quite.
we have been together all day... and in an aeroplane.
life is changing you, mr. kringelein.
yes, thanks to the baron. the best shops, the very best. look, doctor, silk -- feels so nice on the skin... a london hat, see -- made in england, that is silk, too -- fifty marks... look, the price is on it. that was half my salary before. the baron is a very fine gentleman -- no one in my life has been so nice to me as the baron.
I am going to change and we will meet for a drink in the yellow room.
in the yellow room, where the music's playing and the ladies are?
where the music's playing and the ladies are...
no pain, mr. kringelein?
pain? oh, no, doctor. i think if i had pain I would be too happy to notice it...
...and let me say again for the tenth time...  ...you people were quite ready for the merger. you declared yourselves... fully agreed on all the terms -- why should the signing of these articles be suddenly held up?
I have admitted that at one time we had reason for desiring ther merger -- what reason have we now? the preysing company has fallon upon evil days, very evil days.
evil days -- I have shown you here --  -- my company exports to the balkans alone, sixty-five thousand marks worth of mop rags a year.
mop rags -- mop rags -- we are interested in something quite different!
what?
shall i tell them again?
why waste time -- it is getting late.
you see -- what we are interested in --
ah, come on -- we are going home.
mr. preysing has too scrupulous a regard for certainties...
you have talked enough today, you are hoarse now.
sorry, preysing.
you have decided against the merger?
yes --
then, it is all over?
yes --
goodbye, preysing, i hope you pull through. this is a very bad time to be in such a crisis. we've...
why talk -- it is over -- it is over -- it is finished. you have broken off negotiations. you did it. you are calling them off. you had nothing on your mind all day, but manchester, -- manchester -- manchester.  you do not suppose for one moment that I am such a fool as not to have something that i could say definitely about manchester.
what?
oh no -- no -- the session is over. let's go, it is off. thank you, gentlemen.
if you actually have news from manchester then...
gentlemen, i am now free to announce...  ...that the deal between my firm and the manchester cotton company has been successfully negotiated.
preysing, you are joking with us.
you are a deep one.
in that case give us the articles. we will sign at once. we know all the details...
i thought we would suspended negotiations, gentlemen.
under these circumstances it is quite a different matter.
under these circumstances we might refuse to sign.
here's my signature -- here preysing, sign here.
what a session this has been.
see you soon, preysing. next week we will meet and discuss further details.
next week.
next week.
you let me talk till I am hoarse and you had manchester sewed-up all the time. why?
what is the matter with you?
bluff -- bluff -- all bluff.
what is bluff?
that.
'deal with manchester definitely off! "preysing, oh -- I would never have thought it of you.
no one would have thought it of me. I have been getting rusty in fredersdorf. well, if bluff is what the world wants i guess i can put up as big a bluff as anyone. from now on...
you must go to manchester at once yourself and really see it through.
yes -- i must go to england -- i was desperate -- now i do not care -- this sort of thing goes to a man's head.
what you need is some relaxation.
yes -- that is what i want -- I would like to tear loose -- I would like a drink. I would like to go down to that dancing place. I would like to start something.
i can understand that -- after your -- uh --
say it -- say it -- my lie -- it is the first time in thirty years that I have ever... where is that stenographer? miss flaemm...
what do you want with her?
i want to see her, i want to do some dictating -- report of the conference for my father-in-law.
she had an engagement in the yellow room at five of the clock -- she was in a hurry.
zinnowitz, would you say she was pretty?
pretty as a picture.
let's go down and find her -- i need a drink -- come along zinnowitz.  i do not know anything about women -- been married for twenty-six years.
bluff does it, preysing, bluff does it. goodnight.
barman -- whiskey --  for you, mr. kringelein?
for me? -- oh, please, something sweet and cold.
good evening, mr. kringelein -- where is the baron?
I am waiting for him here. the baron and i have been together all day. a hundred miles an hour -- in a motor car -- and in an aeroplane -- it was marvelous --
mr. kringelein -- how you have changed, you look so nice.
oh, thank you, miss flaemm. oh, please, miss flaemm -- permit me, miss flaemm, will not you have something sweet -- a louisiana flip.  a louisiana flip.
no - absinthe.
yes -- that --
you like music?
yes -- it is stimulating -- a man might --
a man might what?
i do not know -- I would like to do anything --
oh -- you would!
hello -- sorry I am late.
oh -- here you are, baron. a drink -- a louisiana flip?
hello, mr. kringelein. how do you feel now?
a little strange, baron.
I would given you up.
sorry.
a drink, baron -- a louisiana flip?
no thanks -- keeping my head clear.
dance then?
she is beautiful -- is not she?
chasing around.
chasing what?
money.
you were very different yesterday.
yesterday -- yes -- that was yesterday.
well, mr. kringelein, are you getting what you are looking for?
what, doctor?
a masculine paradise -- drink, the ladies, dancing...
i had a very good opportunity, a young lady asked me to dance -- i ought to be able to dance, it seems to be very important.
you must learn as quickly as your time allows -- believe me mr. kringelein, a man who is not with a woman is a dead man.
have not you anyone -- have not you anybody -- you -- i mean -- are you all alone in the world.
I am always alone -- i have been everything.
everything?
i was sent as a military surgeon to south africa. stinking climate. taken prisoner. home on parole not to fight. i was a surgeon in the great war till the end. grenade in the face. carried diphtheria bacilli in the wound until 1920. isolated two years.  I have been everything.
that was lovely.
will you do me a big favor?
I will do anything for you.
would you like to make a man happy?
yes -- I would love to.
then dance the next number with kringelein.
why?
i feel sorry for him.
you are not a bit like you were yesterday.
i fell in love last night -- the real thing.
oh -- there is no real thing -- it does not exist.
i thought that, too -- but i found that it does. come along, dance with kringelein.
anything for you.
miss flaemm.
hello!
i must speak with you, miss flaemm.
presently, mr. preysing.
it is urgent.
pardon me, the lady has urgent business here with me.
insolent -- berlin manners.
i wish you a very good evening, mr. preysing. you are staying here, too, mr. preysing?
i do not know you.
oh -- you must know me -- kringelein at the plant. assistant bookkeeper, building c, room twenty-three -- third floor.
come and dance with me, mr. kringelein.
i must speak to you, miss flaemm -- business.
tomorrow morning.
no -- now.
do you gentlemen know each other, mr. kringelein -- mr. preysing -- baron von gaigern.
mr. kringelein will be a good friend and not accept your invitation to dance.
i could not think of not accepting.
you say that you are employed by us in fredersdorf, and here you are in berlin, indulging in diversions which ill befit your position and which are very much beyond your means -- quite extraordinary, mr. kringelein, i think we will look into your books.
now, children, no fighting -- save that for the office. let's have our dance.
I will remember you, mr. kringelein.
oh, let the poor devil alone.
i did not ask your advice.
i think it would be much better if you went away.
we shall see who remains here the longer.
as you will.
you must look at my face and not at the floor.
yes.
you are trembling.
i never danced before -- in public.
you dance splendidly.
I am happy, miss flaemm.
really?
for the first time in my life, I am happy.
well now, miss flaemm, we can talk.
some champagne, miss flaemm?
you may go, mr. kringelein.
does the world belong to you, mr. preysing?
what is this insolence?
do you think you have free license to be insulting? believe me you have not. you think you are superior, but you are quite an ordinary man.
go away -- go away.
please -- please!
you do not like to see me enjoying myself.
who are you? -- an embezzler most likely.
an embezzler -- you are going to take that back, right here in the presence of this young lady -- who do you think you are talking to? you think I am dirt, if I am dirt, you are a lot dirtier, mr. industrial magnate preysing.
you are discharged.
me?
yes you -- shut your mouth -- get out -- you are discharged.
oh, yes, mr. preysing?
sit here.  cognac -- for you?
nothing.
I am going to keep an eye on that kringelein fellow. I will find out where he gets the money to hang around the grand hotel.
well -- you want me?
yes.
well?
i must go to england -- at once.
well?
you see, I would like to take a secretary with me for my correspondence and -- humm -- humm -- for company on the trip -- I am nervous -- i need somebody -- i do not know if you quite understand me. you said you have travelled with gentlemen -- and i mean --
i understand perfectly.
what do you think your salary would be -- for such a trip?
wait -- i must figure it up.  first, I will need -- clothes -- shoes -- it is cold in england in march, I will need a suit... you would want me to look nice?
of course -- of course.
a thousand marks --
it is agreed -- i will get a room here for you.
can you pay some attention to me?
oh, yes.
insolent young cub!
you mean baron von gaigern?
baron!
well, he is a gentleman!
the baron is tired?
no, kringelein, not tired, -- just --  well -- well --
perhaps this evening, baron, we could go to the casino -- the place we passed with the marvelous bright lights?
I would like to kringelein, but i can not -- i am broke!
broke -- a baron? but, baron --
I have quit.
you can't.
I am not going to get those pearls and neither are you.
what about the money?
I will pay you back.
how?
i have an idea working in my head...
you might find a bullet through that head...
if you did that, you would get nothing except the police after you. if you wait -- I will give you your six thousand back --
bless you...
are you coming to the theatre? oh -- i shall dance tonight -- how i shall dance -- i want to feel that you are in the theatre.
i can't.
no?
no! i can not explain now. oh, look -- the pearls. you wear them now...
why do you think --
why?
they have brought me such good luck -- you --
I am worried about you.
don't.
on the train?
yes -- i will be on the train.
till then.
bless you --
was the baron joking, or is it really true that the baron is -- in financial straits.
absolutely true, kringelein and i have to raise some money immediately.
if the baron -- if you would permit me --
what?
i would be awfully glad to oblige, you have been so decent to me. three hundred?
if i could get into a game i might win some.
gambling! I would like that. i have over six thousand eight hundred marks with me.
if we could scare up some men to play.
we could come to my room.
good!
going?
yes --
ready, kringelein?
ready, baron.
is that too much, baron?
no -- not at all.
all right then.
all right then.
turn 'em up.
oh yes -- that is right -- look! i win, do not i --
excuse me, gentlemen.
I will take the bank -- all right, gentlemen.
that was my last.
you have lost everything?
I have no luck.
pardon me, baron. permit me again...
drink to me, kringelein -- it is my last chance.
i do drink, baron -- i drink to you, baron and to win.  it is good, -- come along, baron.
i take five hundred.
all of that at once, baron?
I am having luck for the first time in my life.
your bank, mr. kringelein.
i ought not to presume, but i --  I am so grateful to you -- it is been so marvelous. the first time in my life i have gambled -- I have danced! oh, you can laugh, gentlemen, but it is the first time in my life I have ever tasted life!
splendid!
life, gentlemen, is wonderful, but very dangerous. you must have courage for it, then it is wonderful. you gentlemen do not know that because you are all healthy and happy, but i -- believe me -- a man must know death and not until then does a man know anything about life.
rejoice in life while yet the small lamp burns.
it is a short life and a gay one...
every glass high to life -- the splendid, dangerous, mighty, brief -- brief life -- and the courage to live it.  baron, you know -- I have only lived since last night -- but that little while seems longer than all the time before -- all the --
over -- over so soon -- it has just begun.  oh, the pain.
try and sleep, kringelein, do not be afraid.
I would like to live a little longer but -- I am not afraid to die -- I am not...
there is no pocketbook here... on the floor probably.
more than fourteen thousand marks... were in that pocketbook.
fourteen thousand marks... one can travel -- one's happiness might depend on fourteen thousand marks -- do not you think so, baron?
oh, I have got to find it.
stay where you are.
no -- i must find it --  fourteen thousand two hundred marks.
here -- here it is. here's your pocketbook, kringelein.
oh -- yes -- that is it -- you found it -- you found it for me, baron.
goodnight, kringelein.
no -- no please -- oh, do not go -- do not go -- do not leave me alone, baron.
you have nothing to fear, kringelein
no.
you are all right now -- it is very late -- goodnight, kringelein.
oh, no, stay here, baron -- stay.
flaemmchen, what are you doing here in the middle of the night.
looking for my room -- one sixty- six.
you live here?
for tonight.
oh!
yes -- oh!
well -- such is life, flaemmchen.
and baron, thanks so much for everything.
you are late. I have been waiting for you -- waiting.
i had to arrange about the trip.
you are sweet.
you think so?
come here.
here, hold up!
oh -- careful, mr. preysing.
call me -- do you know -- would you -- would you like to call me by my first name?
oh, no.
why not?
i could not do that, you are a stranger to me.
you are a funny little creature, flaemmchen. i can not make you out.
it is not funny at all. one can not get intimate just off hand. i could go to england with you and everything like that -- supposing i met you next year and i said: 'how do you do, mr. preysing! and you said:  'that was the young lady who was my secretary in manchester'.
aha! -- the baron. what do you want here?
i must have made a mistake.
made a mistake -- remarkable. we shall soon see if you made a mistake.   stay here... give me that money.
so that is how we stand, baron.
look here, sir -- I am completely at your mercy -- I am desperate -- it is a matter of life or death -- i had to get some money -- tonight.
indeed you must, baron -- you must. humm -- humm, but you must go to jail, baron, you are a thief.
be quiet.
I am going to call the police. I am going to watch you play the great baron with the police. aristocrat! aristocrat!
hello! hello! --
do not do that.
quick -- mr. kringelein.
oh -- what -- what --
oh -- oh, miss flaemmchen. it is you --
quick -- something awful -- awful has happened. go -- go at once, -- mr. preysing --
preysing?
oh -- the baron -- the baron.
he tried to rob me -- he is dead --
my best friend -- poor, baron -- dead -- just like that.
-- we must do something...
yes, the police must be called.
no -- no -- wait -- the man was a burglar -- he was going to steal my money.
oh, no -- no -- not the baron.
where is that girl -- she was working with him -- she enticed me into her room.
her room -- oh -- i see, mr. preysing -- i understand, mr. general director preysing.
i can answer for this, it was self- defense -- i can answer for this -- but that girl -- the scandal -- my wife -- my daughters, you know them?
yes, i know them --
the scandal -- we are men -- you -- you could take that affair of the young lady upon yourself -- take her and hold your tongue. then you can travel -- I will give you anything -- anything -- she was with you.
we must call the police, your excellency.
how much -- how much do you want -- you need money -- you have nothing.
do not worry about me, mr. general director pryesing -- worry about yourself.  there has been a murder -- this is room one sixty-four.
madam should sleep.
I have done my hair differently -- do you like that?
when a lady falls in love she does her hair differently.
in the middle of the night -- those flowers make me think of a funeral. laurels and tube-roses.  oh, think, suzette -- the villa and the sun at tremezzo -- quiet -- simple -- happy -- we will have a guest, suzette.
yes, madam. and now madam will sleep. it is not long 'till the train.
goodnight, suzette.
the night clerk has already gone -- you are late.
man -- i was at the clinic the whole night -- there are no words to describe what my wife suffered.
and the child is not coming?
no -- no -- not yet. well, i must not let it interfere with my duty. any news here?
news? yes -- killing in number one- sixty-four.
what? -- who? -- whom?
the big manufacturer killed baron von gaigern.
good heavens. what for?
i do not know.
man -- that is terrible. he was a nice fellow -- i am sorry about him.
it seems that he was a thief and an imposter.
i do not believe it -- he was a real gentleman. i know people... I am so tired i can hardly see out of my eyes. no sleep for two nights and so many duties and now this killing in the hotel -- that means a lot of work. but it is too bad about the baron, you always felt better when he came along -- always friendly -- such an agreeable fellow.
most imposters are --
what is the matter?
oh -- i was thinking -- poor baron -- lying there, his eyes so open.
you loved the baron, did not you?
yes --
so did i. he was friendly to me as no man ever was.
perhaps he really was a burglar -- but they do not kill a man for that.
he was in desperate straits. he would been trying to raise money all day. he laughed -- poor devil! and then a man like preysing kills him.
i did not like preysing right off.
then why did you have anything to do with him?
money!
yes, of course, -- money!
you do not understand that do you?
of course i do -- i never knew what money really meant till i started spending it. do you know --  i can hardly believe that anything so beautiful should come to me from preysing -- I will take care of you. will -- will you let me?
what?
you will have a good time with me. want to? I have got enough money. ten thousand two hundred in my pocketbook. three thousand four hundred that i won. it will last a long time. i can win more -- we will travel.
yes -- to paris? i wanted to go there always.
wherever you like. here I will give you the money i won, three thousand four hundred. later you can have more.
later?
when i -- I am ill, flaemmchen -- it will not be long -- I will not last long. will you stay with me until...
nonsense! we will find a great doctor, he will cure you. they can cure anything these days.
do you believe that you will have a better time with me than you would with preysing?
oh yes, of course.
do you like me better?
you are a good man, mr. kringelein -- a very good man.
madam, it is mr. meierheim -- he is waiting downstairs.
where is pimenov? where is pimenov?
he will be on the train.
but when did he go? how do you know?
come along, oh, madam, come along. the train will be going.
wait a minute. I have got to ask myself.
what is the use of asking, gru -- he is at the train -- he will be there.
the troupe, the scenery, everything -- all on board, waiting. you have a rehearsal in vienna tomorrow morning. come, madam, are you mad?
four minutes past. please come.
come, lisaveta, he will be there -- he will be there.
madam grusinskaya's car.
oh, the sun -- it will be sunny in tremezzo --
every seat for the opening has been sold at vienna. sold out for three days.
i know -- i know -- but it will be sunny in tremezzo. we will have a guest then.
am i!
is the bill ready -- the lady's too?
how do you know there is a grand hotel?
oh, there must be one in paris... they have everything in paris.
