oh great...hey - winstons?
for these prices do not be particular. that is all they had - but next week we will see...
ok, ok...
sell 'em if you can not smoke them.
no...i'll be ok for a week.
you seen johnny boy tonight?
nope...
is not he supposed to be here tonight...i mean...
look...i do not know.  what am i supposed to be, his keeper or something?  yeah, he is supposed to be here but who knows what goes on in his head.  right?
I would like to know charlie, it looks like your little friend is trying to duck me...
...charlie, do not you think you should be interested in johnny's payments to me?  i think you should be, you know that.
michael, nobody's out to screw you, i guarrantee that.
i know that charlie but look at my side.  you undersigned the loans. you vouched for him.  what happens if this kid do not pay me?  i got to collect from you?  i do not want to do that.  i made a deal with him not you, right?
you are right.  you are right.  look, I am not going to wind up paying his debts.  you know that.
i do not know that.  that is what I am telling you.
michael, believe me.  you know the kid's a little crazy sometimes.  i vouched for him and he will come through.  i promise.  I will talk to him and straighten him out.  do not worry, ok?
ok.
drinks for everybody tony...
giovanino!  where have you been?
and a double for you and charlie here.  and put it on my tab, willya?
which one, the big tab or the little tab?
put it on the little tab so that it balances with the big one.
yeah, so things'll be even.
how about me?  i do not get a drink john?
of course!  a double for michael, tony.
i know what you are going to say but do not say it.  these drinks are all on the tab.  I am going to see you this tuesday payday, i promise.  i give you my word.
you what?
what happened to you flash?
charlie, i swear on my mother, you are not going to believe this.
i know but let's hear it anyway.
i swear to god charlie, it is the truth.
hey johnny, where are you goin'?
sal!... fourteen street.
come on.
this is some boat.  your father's?
yeah...just had it delivered...
hey... you got stereo.
yeah, i think so.
ah...there's a funny lookin' cab behind us.
i know...i know.
what'sa matter...forget your registration?
no...no.  nooo...it's just that i...i...uh... this am not my car.
yeah, it is your father's.
well...no.
you mean it is heisted.
you could say that.
this is a heisted car!
it is the truth, i swear.
all right, forget it.  tony, you got anything we can put on his face?
keep quiet about this.  i do not have any license for him yet.  I have only had him a couple of days. nobody can feed him except me.  I am the only one he trusts.  watch.
do not go to any trouble.  we believe you... we believe you.
really wanted to get a little tiger charlie, y'know...a little william blake and all that...
be careful.
see what i mean?  a question please...'is this what you call living?'
'take a little tip from mack the knife...'
and i would not call it tony's place or charlie's place...  I would call it something like season of the witch... get it?
you are with out a doubt the biggest, most pretentious bullshit thrower i know.  like to see what kind of business you would do.
look who is talking.  pretentious bullshit.  who is the guy with william blake and the tigers, eh?
will you guys shut up with the witches and tigers.  tony, you gonna close the place, we get out of here, get something to eat, or what?
we will close up as soon as everybody leaves.
waddaya think?
not quite...but keep trying.
nah.
c'mon tony, waddaya say?
no.
anybody wanna have a game?
michael, give us a lift.
ok, get in.
yes, you are gettin' it all over my tie.
should i slap him?
just keep him quiet.
friends of yours michael.
shut up.
must have been all the liquor in him.
quiet please.
hey, shut up.
get him in.
disgraceful.
ok...that's it.
out!!!!
c'mon johnny.
you getting out too?
yeah, thanks, it is ok.
i do not think i should go home looking like this.  you think i could stay at your place tonight? your mother's not there is she?
no, she isn't.
you would better make a move kid.  he thinks you are trying to screw him.
would not bother me.
yeah, big man...get yourself in more trouble.  you make a fool out of him, you are doing the same to me. i signed for you do not forget.
do not worry.  i can handle it.
you could not handle shit.  you just better come through with some kind of payment on tuesday...anything. understand?  hold onto your pay- check this week.
there will not be any this week.
what do you mean?
did not show up.
you sick or what?  you forget what we had to do to get you on the trucks, stupid?
i do not like loading crates.
you are not supposed to like it. what gets me is your attitude. listen... tomorrow you show up.
what about your attitude...where's your job...eh?  you talk and talk and i go to work...what do you do?
I will tell you what i do not do... i do not owe anybody 2,000 clams plus interest, stupid.  show up or i break both your arms, we understand each other?
ok, ok...take it easy.  I will show. tuesday I will give michael something. i promise.
do not promise...just deliver.
ok, now that that is over with...what are you going to make me for breakfast?
i will not wait until tuesday.  I will break your arms right now.
listen...i'm a guest here.
hey...you got nothing here.
i could have told you that.
we will get some food from my aunt's. I will get in through the fire escape. she is always got something.
I would like to eat something before i go back to work.
ok, we will go for lunch.
do you have enough?
well...with the hotel that is ten... fifteen...
here.
please take it.
well...
i do not mind.
sure...it's not that...i mean...
it is all right.
well, if things go the way i hope they will go, this money business will take care of itself.  god willing.
an apartment uptown?  downtown?
maybe, who knows.
charlie...?
nobody knows anything, believe me.
see if you can get your hands on some pamphlets on laws or by laws...or proprietorship...you know...at your place.
anything specific?
you know...like restaurants, night clubs...
what is it now?
do not ask.
alright... hey, did you hear any more about what happened last night?
did you?
no.
christ, you should have seen it. unbelievable.  the kid would turn around and fire and he would just keep coming at him like rasputin. that kid was scared.  not half as much as we were though.
it does not make any sense.  he would not shoot him just because he insulted a racket guy...not unless it was personal.
you missed the point.  the kid's a climber...not very bright...but if you get down to his level to look at it his way; he kills a guy who insulted a big man - he gets a reputation.  he thinks he is in good standing.
it is still sick.
not sick...just stupid.  speaking of stupid, your cousin last night was feeling so good he decided to break into your mother's house...to get some food.
hey...you're here.  they told me you are here...and you are here.  how are you?
ok, how is everything going?
do not ask...do you have any idea what I have been doing all morning...eh?
no.
i was in the basement fixing the pipes.  would you believe that?
what pipes?
what pipes...the ones from last year...those pipes.
look charlie, you are a good boy. will you just tell your uncle that i have nothing.  there is nothing to give him.  no envelopes with cash inside, no checks, nothing.
that bad, huh?
i can not make this week's payment and if this keeps up not next week's either.
not next week's either...listen...you tell that to giovanni, not me.
listen, i should wrap up this place in a ribbon and hand it to him, you know that.  i do not need this aggravation.  I am getting old.
he would rather have the loan payed, you know that.
your uncle's a good man...i will not stick him.  either he gets the money or the place and right now he is getting the place.  and tell me why should i care?  i got a partner who is a bum, who does not help out...who disappears and leaves me with all the problems.  i should go back to florida...i do not need this.
i do not understand, where is groppi?
i should know?  his wife do not even know.  probably off with one of his little girls...i do not know.  i tell you, if he do not give a damn, then i do not give a damn...why should i kill myself?
my uncle figured that this week was bad...but about next week...i dunno. maybe you should speak to him yourself.
what can i say?
uncle, how are you feeling?
fine.  did you have a good time last night?
about that shooting last night...i was there and...
no you weren't.
you are right uncle.  i must have gotten it confused with something else.
yes, you did.
about oscar...i think he put on this act...about the restaurant being in bad shape and all that. he can not make the payments...i do not know what to make of it.  he says groppi's run off with a girl. i could help if you want.
no...his business is bad.  but I will decide what to do and you...and you just keep out of anything that might...might...er draw attention to you.
c'mon charlie...one more day.  I will call in sick for work.
no...we can come back in a couple of weeks.  besides, if we are both gone for three days it would not look right.
ok.
bore.
a paper on that one too?
yeah...but do not worry about that now.  the hemmingway one is first.
it was nothing.  I am almost finished.
take your time.  i do not care.
i know you don't.  you have been very preoccupied lately.
that is the word...preoccupied.
see that...know who lives there? the name george earhardt mean anything to you?
sure...he lives there?
no.  of course he lives there. would i point it out to you if he didn't?
that w.a.s.p. bastard.
you are intolerable today.
watch your language.
I am going to take that apartment uptown.
uhuh...probably a good idea.  why do not you do it this time?
you know why...with my parents.
well you can not blame them in a way.
i can take care of myself.  you know that.
i know...i know.
...he must have heard the name from those t.v.'s in the hall that were blaring all the time.  i remember guevara was in town at the time. must have heard it from there i guess...but that is funny, is not it?
ummmmmmmmmmmmm.
of all people.  now say the truth. do i look like che guevara.  c'mon.
I am sleepy.
you have been running round too much. bet you have been forgetting your medicine.
the green capsules in the top drawer.
is not this jack groppi's place?
yeah.  but he am not here now.
know where he is?
follow me.
take a drink!
ok.
hey, where you been?
oh...around...why?
you heard what happened to groppi, eh?
who me? ...no, i do not know, not me...all i know is...
our friend, groppi, went to his mother's house.  and when he was there...at night...
oh michael, look...
nevamind 'look'...this punk bastard...i call him at work...i say 'johnny boy there?'...he does not even show up for work anymore...
look...i've talked to him and I have talked to him...what more can i do...?  tonight at the party all three of us get together and we knock some sense into his head...ok?
all right...but understand, i do not like being taken advantage of.  i mean you are in there talking with your uncle and all...this is embarassing.
we will settle it tonight.
sssh!  quiet.  y'know that is illegal.
well the guy over there said...
yeah, yeah, never mind.  you gotta be careful.
we went down to chinatown but they do not have any.
yeah, well, keep away from those chinx.  they do not have shit.
well, we got $40, and we wanna buy...
all right!  quiet!  for $40 i could give you...
well, i do not know if we want to buy all $40 worth...
hey!  you want good stuff, or you want shit?
well, we want good stuff.
well, my stuff comes from maryland... you know what that means?
no.
that means it is good.
you got sparklers?
yeah.
and cherry bombs...ash cans...and rockets?
ok.  for another $5.00 a special on the packs.
no, all we got is $40.
you sure?
yeah.
ok.  wait here.
ok, you guys get out, and wait here for me.
why?
i gotta get the stuff.
can not we come with you?
nobody sees where i get the stuff. that is good business.  I will be back in thirty minutes.
hey hold it!  gimmie the cash.
uh...can we give you a check?
a check?  what the...hey, where you kids from?
riverdale.
well, maybe they do that in riverdale, but down here we take cash.  now, you got it or not?
how much?
not bad.  $20.  here, $5.
can you spare it?
sure.
thanks.
what is a'matter?
nothin'.  just stiffed those kids. do not want'em comin' back and findin' you...start asking you questions.
how much?
$20.
let's go to the movies...on you.
yeah.
ok guys...have a heart.  this is my business.
may god be with you.
'and with your spirit.'
salute!!!
'art thou the king of the jews'?
'dost thou say this of thyself, or have others told thee of me?'
'my kingdom is not of this world. if my kingdom were of this world my followers would have fought that i might not be delivered to the jews. but, as it is my kingdom is not from here.'
'thou art then a king?'
'thou sayest it; i am a king.  this is why i was born and why i have come into this world, to bear witness to the truth.  everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.'
prophesy to us, oh christ!  who is it that struck thee?
i do not know, but god help him if he does it again!
well, he isn't.  nice...real nice.
he will be here.  look, take this for now.
you kiddin.  the way it is now this is not even interest for two hours.
how much was the original loan again?
$500.  he borrowed that because he wanted to pay off his other loans... now, counting the interest...it's almost $3,000.
$3,000.  shit!  can we hold it at $3,000?
charlie, this is business.
'but i say to you, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who persecute...'
I will tell you who you can pray for... next payday, I will be at tony's place...johnny better show or i find him and break his legs...and i mean it.
'but i say to you not to resist the evildoer; on the contrary, if someone takes thy tunic, let him take thy cloak as well...to him who asks of thee, give; and from him who would borrow of thee do not turn away!
he could at least show some respect and show his face, even if he does not have the money...
'amen i say to thee, thou wilt not come out from it until thou hast paid the last penny.'
you said it.
the building on the corner.  that one!  he is been on the roof a half hour now!
now do not get excited.  do not get excited!!
do not come any closer!!!
cut it out stupid.  it is me.
hey...don't do that...i'm only scaring them.
stupid bastard...you get your cousin half-sick over this.
let's get out of here.
did you see them run!
i swear to god charlie...my arm still hurts from the car accident...that's why i did not go to work.  i swear it.
that is not going to help.
I am going to work this week...i mean it.
it is impossible for you to catch up on the loan now...the interest is going up...$3,000...do you realize that, flash?
I am sorry charlie...i did not mean it.
big deal...in the meantime, it is done...i'll still try to help you out...you know that...but you got to show some effort...some respect... understand?
charlie, you know the best way to take care of this whole mess.
how?
if you had a little talk with your uncle...if anybody can do it, he can.
that will help you out fine.  that is the best way for you, not for me! i swear to god, I will rip you open if my uncle ever hears a word about this.  you understand?  i do not care what happens, he does not find out.
i do not get involved with anything, you understand that?  nothing!  I am clean as far as you know...right?
yeah, take it easy.  will you relax.
that is what i get for getting involved.  look, on pay-day at least show up at tony's place to meet him, ok?  this way he does not think that you are trying to screw him.  if you show good faith and save his face maybe we can talk and he will take off the interest or make different payment arrangements or something... understand?  I am not asking I am telling you!!
i understand.
i really could not believe it when you told me, you know that?
well, he was always a little crazy... he puts a gun in his mouth...  ...like your friend...comme si chiama...henning?  heming?
hemmingway.  killed himself.  i was more upset about that than about groppi, that is for sure.
you know, this boy over here, once, long time ago, tried to enrich my mind...so he gives me a book by this hemin fella...to read, so i read it.
was not a book...was a short story.
what was it?
nothing.
no, c'mon...y'know, i read.
"francis macomber."
wha?
"short happy life of francis macomber."
oh yeah...didn't read it but i saw the movie...gregory peck...pretty good.
oh yes, he is pretty good.
what i do not understand is why you have to go to college to read these books that you are going to read anyway.
it is only a couple of courses...just for the draft.
charlie, couple of courses is not enough to get you student deferred... i mean if they wanted to draft you, you would have been drafted by now.
...but it is the same thing, all the same...they're in there by having something on somebody...and when that does not work...they fight...our life has honor...we have no show to put on because we do what we have to do.  they know where to come when they need us.  i realize this during the war...world war ii...vito genovese... during wwii he worked with the government, taking care of the docks...
what did he do?
his whole family has problems...his cousin, the girl who lives next door to you...
teresa.
...the one who is sick, right?  in the head.
no, she is got epilepsy.
yeah.  that is what i said, sick in the head.
her mother and father come to me and ask advice...she wants to leave...get her own apartment...worries them sick...what am i gonna tell them?  lock her up?
what do they expect you to say?
who knows?  it is not hard to figure out what she will wind up like.  when the respect for parents breaks down, that is bad...you know I am "cumpari" with them...so i take an interest.  you live next door, keep an eye open...but do not get involved.
all right.
why do not you take a look around the place if you want?
oh, that is ok...i've been in and out of this place fifty times.
well, maybe you missed something?
oh yeah, that is a possibility.
next time, bet with your own kind.
the number was 235 - i bet it combination.
it will be ok - i know those guys. they will not stiff you.
i bet 235.  because i dreamt of my grandfather - and when he died, the number of the funeral parlour was 235 - so when i dreamt...
scumbag--
shut up.
lower the fuckin music--i can not hear nothin.
the girls like it loud.
girls?  you call those skanks girls?!
what is the matter with this kid?
i feel fine--nothing wrong with me.
keep your mouth shut.
you tell me that in front of these creeps?
do not count it...it's all there.
count it.
hey, c'mon - no bullshit - friends.
you got some mouth!
johnny, you are a real jerk-off.
no, really, i liked it...thought it was great.
thanks.
what are your plans?
well, we are here for about two weeks, then whatever else comes along... we are still working on our album and...
great...great...listen, I am very interested in you guys because I will be opening a new club myself soon... uptown...and maybe we can work something out...
sounds good.
of course, 'the season of the witch' will not be ready for a while yet but we have to keep in touch.
teresa?...yeah, charlie.  listen, I am looking for your cousin.  yeah, well today's tuesday, payday.  i have not seen him all day...no...well, have you got any idea where he is?  i know it is early yet but I am just getting worried that is all...
charlie...i've got to see you.  i want to talk...
honey, i can not talk now...i've got to run, bye.
but...
diane, how are you feeling?
fine.
you know diane...i've been wanting to talk to you for a while now...er... a...  aside from all that joking around we do out there...when you are on...i... a...i really...think that you are a terrific performer...
fine.
no, I am serious...you're really good.
i know.
in a little while...i'm going to have the opportunity of opening my own place...not here...much nicer than this...uptown...sort of nite-club and restaurant and everything.
that is nice.
i was thinking maybe you would do very nicely for the place.
stripper?
no...no stripping...as the hostess.
hostess?
yeah, you know...you greet the people...see them to their tables... well...it'll be different though... listen...why do not we get together and talk after your show tonight.
chinese food?
ok.  chinese.  we will meet on the corner of 6th avenue and waverly place after you finish.
why not here...ok nevermind...6th avenue and waverly.
bye.
be seeing you and johnny tonight... here...right?
we will be here.
look, michael, I will get him here. what do you want me to do, kill him?
whatever.
are you sure he did not say anything to you about tonight?
for god's sakes...i told you before...nothing.  charlie, i can not stay in here too long at this hour...will you please listen to me?
shut up!
yeah, teresa, shut up!  we do not wanna get charlie here in trouble, do we?...we love charlie.
your cousin here was getting sick, worrying about you.  we have been in here calling...
oh, that is too bad, teresa...
well kids...have the bans been announced yet?
do not be smart.
I am not smart...i'm stupid, remember. I am so stupid that you have to look out for me, remember?
johnny, i swear to god, if you open your mouth about any of this...
me?  i would not say a word to my aunt and uncle...or even your uncle, charlie...
you threaten me with my uncle? after what I am doing for you?
what you are doing for me is not worth it...believe me!
take it.  I am doing it for you, stupid!
no you are not...
oh, cut it out, will ya?
charlie, twenty-eight bucks is nothing.  the only way to do it is through your uncle...think about it will you?
no!!!  what do you think i am, crazy???
no, i just want to help myself, that is all.
come on.
do not you move!!!
I will be here.  do not worry.
back so soon.
mind your own business.
who is the girl?
jewish...
how do you know?
look at her.
she do not look jewish.
sure she is.  she is always in here with some different guy.  you know the way they are.
it is obvious that the girl does not want to accompany you, is not it?
look fella...this is private...
nothing's private...
whether she wants to or not...she's not going.
let go of her.
hello, michael.  I have got something for you...not much...but...
he has about twenty-eight bucks... it is all he has on him.
where is the rest?
yeah, where is the rest?
you are really crazy.
you are not going to use that gun, johnny.
get out of here before this really goes up.
hide the gun.  throw it away. anything.  listen, i gotta borrow your car...i think we should take a ride...away from here for the night...you know what i mean?
ok...but go to a movie first or something...not good to be driving around right away.  you know you can not do much for him now...it's out of your hands.
i think we should see your uncle.
no.
this can not be settled any other way now...i'll take full blame.
forget it.
what are you going to do?  hide me?
good idea.
where to?
kennedy.
i know, i know, stupid.  i mean where you goin'?
it is an open ticket.  i can go anywhere up to $350.
so?
so I will send you a postcard from wherever.  if i get there.
nervous?
yeah.
you flew before?
no.
hey, come on...
take it easy.  i only asked because maybe i could, you know, let you have a little something.
yeah, well thanks, but i got enough to hold me.  my mother can send me some.  i do not know.
how about teresa?  i could talk...
listen, i appreciate it, but I will handle it myself.  I will write.
and say what?
I will say that I am travelling.
listen, try a place with some sun. swimming pools.  palm trees.  girls in little french bathing suits.
thanks for the ride.
panther...
panther!  same thing...
hey...no more good times like before.  until you come back.
sure.  and you are going to take the vows next tuesday, right.
yeah, I am going to worry about you, too.
