how do you do.  my name is penelope ryan.  this is a simple-minded play about men who enjoy killing--and those who don't.
i am harold ryan, her husband.  i have killed perhaps two hundred men in wars of various sorts--as a professional soldier.  i have killed thousands of other animals as well--for sport.
i am dr. norbert woodly--a physician, a healer.  i find it disgusting and frightening that a killer should be a respected member of society.  gentleness must replace violence everywhere, or we are doomed.
would you like to say something about killing, colonel?
jesus--i dunno.  you know.  what the heck.  who knows?
colonel harper, retired now, dropped an atom bomb on nagasaki during the second world war, killing seventy-four thousand people in a flash.
i dunno, boy.
you don't know?
it was a bitch.
thank you.  you can leave now.  we'll begin.
and this is my son, paul.  he was only four years old when his father disappeared.
he's coming back, mom!  he's the bravest, most wonderful man who ever lived.
i told you this was a simple-minded play.
maybe he'll come back tonight! it's his birthday.
i know.
stay home tonight!
oh, paul--
you're married!  you've already got a husband!
he's a ghost!
he's alive!
not even mutual of omaha thinks so anymore.
if you have to go out with some guy--can't he be more like dad?  herb shuttle and norbert woodly-- can't you do better than those two freaks?
thank you, kind sir.
a vacuum cleaner salesman and a fairy doctor.
a what kind of doctor?
a fairy--a queer.  everybody in the building knows he's a queer.
that's an interesting piece of news.
you're the only woman he ever took out.
not true.
still lives with his mother.
you know she has no feet!  you want him to abandon his mother, who has no husband, who has no money of her own, who has no feet?
how did she lose her feet?
in a railroad accident many years ago.
i was afraid to ask.
norbert was just beginning practice. a real man would have sold her to a catfood company, i suppose.  as far as that goes, j. edgar hoover still lives with his mother.
i didn't know that.
a lot of people don't.
j. edgar hoover plays sports.
i don't really know.
to only exercise dr. woodly ever gets is playing the violin and making that stupid peace sign.  peace.  peace.  peace, everybody.
i hate that thing.
it's beautiful.
peace, everybody--paul, penelope.
you're taking mom out tonight?
you're going out?
herb shuttle is taking me to a fight.
take plenty of cigars.
we made the date three months ago.
i must take you to an emergency ward sometime--on a saturday night. that's also fun.  i came to see selma, as a matter of fact.
she quit this afternoon.
we don't have a maid any more.
oh?
the animals made her sneeze and cry too much.
i'm glad somebody finally cried. every time i come in here and see all this unnecessary death, i want to cry.  i don't cry, of course.  not manly, you know.  did she try antihistamines?
they made her so sleepy she couldn't work.
throw out all this junk.  burn it! this room crawls with tropical disease.
everything stays as it is!
a monument to a man who thought that what the world needed most was more rhinoceros meat.
my father!
i apologize.  but you didn't know him, and neither did i.  how's your asthma?
don't worry about it.
how's the fungus around your thumbnail?
it's fine!
it's jungle rot!  this room is making everybody sick!  this is your family doctor speaking now.  here--i brought you something else to hang on your wall, for the sake of variety.
"war is not healthy for children and other living things." how lovely.
no doubt paul thinks it stinks.
i hate that thing.
keeps fairies away!
hi kid.  would you look what the car dragged in.
i'm glad you brought your vacuum cleaner.
is that a fact?
that maid just quit.  the place is a mess.  you can start in the master bedroom.
please--
he's not anybody to tell somebody else what to do in a master bedroom.
i'll get ready, herb.  i didn't expect you this soon.  please--won't everybody be nice to everybody else while i'm gone?
i keep having this nightmare--that he catches us.
doing what?
he'd kill me.  he'd be right to kill me, too--the kind of guy he is.
or was.  we haven't done anything wrong, you know.
he'd assume we had.
that's something i suppose.
all through the day i'm so confident.  that's why i'm such a good salesman, you know?  i have confidence, and i look like i have confidence, and that gives other people confidence.  people laugh sometimes when they find out i'm a vacuum cleaner salesman.  they stop laughing, though, when they find out i made forty-three thousand dollars last year.  i've got six other salesmen working under me, and what they all plug into is my confidence.  that's what charges them up.
i'm glad.
i was captain of the wrestling team at lehigh university.
i know.
if you want to wrestle, you got lehigh.  if you want to play tennis, you go to vanderbilt.
i don't want to go to vanderbilt.
you don't wrestle if you don't have supreme confidence, and i wrestled. but when i get with you, and i say to myself, "my god--here i am with the wife of harold ryan, one of the great heroes of all time--"
yes?
something happens to my confidence.
this conversation took place, incidentally, about three months before harold was declared legally dead.
when harold is definitely out of the picture, penelope, when i don't have to worry about doing him wrong or you wrong or paul wrong.  i'm going to ask you to be my wife.
i'm touched.
that's when i'll get my confidence back.
i see.
if you'll pardon the expression, that's when you'll see the fur and feathers fly.  good night.
good night.
you've got to fight from time to time.
not true.
or get eaten alive.
that's not true either--or needn't be, unless we make it true.
phooey.
which we do.  but we can stop doing that.
we simply stop doing that--dropping things on each other, eating each other alive.
penelope!  we're late!
coming.
women are always late.  you'll find out.
the late mrs. harold ryan.
i'm sick of this argument.  i just have one more thing to say: if you elect a president, you support him, no matter what he does.  that's the only way you can have a country!
it's the planet that's in ghastly trouble now and all our brothers and sisters thereon.
none of my relatives are chinese communists.  speak for yourself.
chinese maniacs and russian maniacs and american maniacs and french maniacs and british maniacs have turned this lovely, moist, nourishing blue-green ball into a doomsday device.  let a radar set and a computer mistake a hawk or a meteor for a missile, and that's the end of mankind.
you can believe that if you want. i talk to guys like you, and i want to commit suicide.  you get that weight-lifting set i sent you?
it came yesterday.  i haven't opened it yet.
maybe it's supposed to end now. maybe god wouldn't have it any other way.
start with the smallest weights. every week add a pound or two.
maybe god has let everybody who ever lived be reborn--so he or she can see how it ends.  even pithecanthropus erectus and australopithecus and sinanthropus pekensis and the neanderthalers are back on earth--to see how it ends. they're all on times square--making change for peepshows.  or recruiting marines.
you ever hear the story about the boy who carried a calf around the barn every day?
he died of a massive rupture.
you think you're so funny.  you're not even funny.  right?  right?  you don't hurt yourself if you start out slow.
you're preparing him for a career in the slaughterhouses of dubuque?  take care of your body, yes!  but don't become a bender of horseshoes and railroad spikes.  don't become obsessed by your musculature.  any one of these poor, dead animals here was a thousand times the athlete you can ever hope to be. their magic was in their muscles. your magic is in your brains!
gentlemen!  is this right for a fight?  it's been so long.
beautiful!  i've never seen that coat.
seven jaguars' skins, i'm told. harold shot every one.  shall we go?
oh no!  wear a coat of cotton--wear a coat of wool.
what?
wear a coat of domestic mink.  for the love of god, though, penelope, don't lightheartedly advertise that the last of the jaguars died for you.
she's my date tonight.  what do you want her to do--bring the poor old jaguars back to life with a bicycle pump?  bugger off!  ask paul what he thinks.  your mother looks beautiful--right?  kid?  doesn't your mother look nice?  paul?
i don't care what she wears.
something's made you sore.
don't worry about it.
you bet i'll worry about it.  i said something wrong?
it's my father's birthday--that's all.  that's all.  who cares about that?
i had not the slightest inkling.  why didn't you say so?
she doesn't care!  she's not married any more!  she's going to have fun!  i hope you have so much fun you can hardly stand it.  dr. woodly--i hope you make up even better jokes about my father than the ones you've said so far.
kid--kid--
and i wish you'd quit touching me all the time.  it drives me nuts!
what's this?
don't!
you sure misunderstood something-- and we'd better get it straight.
explain it to them.  i'm bugging out of here.
don't touch me.  get out of the way.
men can touch other men, and it doesn't mean a thing.  haven't you ever seen football players after they've won the superbowl?
where will you be?
anywhere but here.  i'd just sit here and cry about the way my father's been forgotten.
i worship your father.  that stuffed alligator your mother gave me--the one he shot?  it's the proudest thing in my apartment.
everybody talks about how rotten kids act.  grownups can be pretty rotten, too.
kid--kid--
it's good.  let him go.
if he'd just come out for the little league, the way i asked him, he'd find out we touch all the time--shove each other, slug each other, and just horse around.  i'm going to go get him--
don't!  let him have all the privacy he wants.  let him grieve, let him rage.  there has never been a funeral for his father.
i never knew when to hold it--or who to ask, or what to say.
tonight's the night.
if he'd just get into scouting, and camp out some, and see how everybody roughhouses around the fire--
what a beautiful demonstration this is of the utter necessity of rites of passage.
i feel like i've been double- crossed.  if you'd just told me it was harold's birthday--
what then?
we could have had some kind of birthday party for him.  we could have taken paul to the fight with us.
minors aren't allowed at fights.
then we'd stay home and eat venison or something, and look through the scrapbooks.  i've got a friend who has a whole freezer full of striped bass and caribou meat.  i'm going to bring that boy back.
this is very good for us.
it is?
the wilder paul is tonight, the calmer he'll be tomorrow.
as long as he keeps out of the park.
after this explosion, i think, he'll be able to accept the fact that his mother is going to marry again.
the only thing i ever told him about life was, "keep out of the park after the sun goes down."
we've got to dump shuttle.  he brings his vacuum cleaner on dates?
that's the xke.
the what?
it's an experimental model.  he doesn't dare leave it in his car, for fear it will fall into the hands of competition.
what kind of a life is that?
he told me one time what the proudest moment of his life was. he made eagle scout when he was twenty-nine years old.  oh, norbert--promise me that paul has not gone into the park!
if you warned him against it as much as you say, it's almost a certainty.
no!  oh no!  three people murdered in there in the last six weeks! the police won't even go in there any more.
i wish paul luck.
it's suicide!
i'd be dead by now if that were the case.
meaning?
every night, penelope, for the past two years, i've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
why would you do that?
to show myself how brave i am.  the issue's in doubt, you know--since i'm always for peace--
i'm amazed.
me, too.  i know something not even the police know--what's in the park at midnight.  nothing.  or, when i'm in there, there's me in there. fear and nobody and me.
and maybe paul.  what about the murderers?  they're in there!
they didn't murder me.
paul's only twelve years old.
he can make the sound of human footsteps--which is a terrifying sound.
we've got to rescue him.
if he is in the park, luck is all that can save him now, and there's plenty of that.
he's not your son.
no.  but he's going to be.  if he is in the park and he comes out safely on the other side, i can say to him, "you and i are the only men with balls enough to walk through the park at midnight."  on that we can build.
it's a jungle out there.
that's been said before.
he'd go to a movie.  i think that's what he'd do.  if i were sure he was in a movie, i could stop worrying.  we could have him paged.
did you see him?
yeah.
is he all right?
far as i know.
is he coming home?
he ditched me.  he started running, and i started running, then he lost me in the park.
the park!
it's dark in there. penelope and that's where he is!
i figure he ducked in one place and ducked out another.
you figure!
then i saw this bakery store that was still open, so i bought a birthday cake.
a what?
for harold.  when paul comes home, we can have some birthday cake.
how nice.
they had this cake somebody else hadn't picked up.  it says, "happy birthday, somebody else."
"happy birthday, wanda june!"
we can take off the "wanda june" with a butter knife.
did you talk to paul?
before he started to run.  he said his father carried a key to this apartment around his neck--and someday we'd all hear the sound of that key in the door.
we've got to find him.  i want you to show me exactly where you saw him last.  and you stay here, norbert, in case he comes home.  that's all he said--the thing about the key?
he said one other thing.  it wasn't very nice.
what was it?
he told me to take a flying fuck at the moon.
ooops.
ooops.
can i--uh--help you gentlemen?
gentlemen--that's nice.
you startled me.
the door ws unlocked.  is it always unlocked?
it's always locked.
but here you are inside, aren't you?
you're--you're old friends of harold ryan?
we tried to be.  we tried to be.
he's dead, you know.
dead!  such a final word.  dead!  did you hear that?
hello?  oh--hello, mother.
hello, mother.
...who?... did she say how far apart the pains were?... when was that?... oh dear.
oh dear.
call her back--tell her to head for the hospital.  tell the hospital to expect her.  i'll leave right now.
look--i'm sorry--i have to go.
we'll miss you so.
look--this isn't my apartment, and there isn't anybody else here.  mrs. ryan won't be home for a while.
oh, oh, oh--i thought it was your apartment.  you seemed at home here.
i'm a neighbor.  i have the apartment across the hall.  i have to go to the hospital now.  an emergency.
i mean--i can't leave you here. you'll have to go.  i'll tell mrs. ryan you were here.  you can come back later.
ahh--then she's still alive.
she's fine.  please--
and still mrs. harold ryan?
will you please go?  an emergency!
she still has just the one child-- the boy?
yes!  yes!  the boy!  one boy!
and what, exactly, is your relationship to mrs. ryan?
neighbor!  doctor!  i live across the hall.
and you come into mrs. ryan's apartment as often as you please, looking into various health matters?
yes!  please!  you've got to get out right now!
just her neighbor and doctor? that's all?
and her fiancé!
and her fiancé!  how nice.  i hope you'll be very happy--or is that what one says to the woman?
i've got to run!
you wish the woman good luck, and you tell the man how fortunate he is.  that's how it goes.
i've literally got to run!
i won't try to keep up with you. i'm not as fast on my feet as i once was.
miss me, baby?
i dunno, boy.
hm?
it's a bitch.
a bitch.
didn't recognize you.
we've never met.
i wonder who'll recognize us first? they'll wet their pants.
i hope the men do.  i would rather the women didn't.
i'm gonna wet my pants.
home, sweet home.
one thing, anyway--at least penelope didn't throw out all your crap.  i bet alice threw out all my crap after i'd been gone a week.
we'll see.
it appears that we're going to have to wait awhile for any more action here, colonel.  why don't you run on home while the evening's young.
home.  jesus.  i'm like this.  home!
home is important to a man.
you know what gets me?
no.
how all the magazines show tits today.
um.
used to be against the law, didn't it?
i suppose.
must have changed that law.
home.
you know what gets me?
you know what gets me?
oh, shit.
how everybody says "fuck" and "shit" all the time.  i used to be scared shitless i'd say "fuck" or "shit" in public, by accident.  now everybody says "fuck" and "shit," "fuck" and "shit" all the time. something very big must have happened while we were out of the country.
looseleaf--will you get the hell home?
at least we found the diamonds.
at least!
i'd really feel stupid if we didn't bring anything back home.
it's enough that you've brought yourself home!
i wish you'd tell alice that.  and that goddamn mrs. wheeler.
tell them yourself!
you don't know my mother-in-law, boy.
after eight years in the jungle with you, i know mrs. wheeler better than i know anybody in the universe!
i didn't tell you everything.
the time we were in a tree for fourteen days, you certainly tried to tell me everything about mrs. wheeler.
i didn't even scratch the surface. you're lucky, boy.  you come home, and nobody's here.  when i go home, everybody's going to be there.
this room is full of ghosts.
you're lucky, boy.  my house is gonna be filled with people.
you know what gets me?
go home!
thank god we found the fucking diamonds!
the hell with the diamonds!
you were rich before.  this is the first time i was ever rich.
go home!  show them how rich you are for a change!
can i have the cadillac?
take the cadillac and drive it off a cliff, for all i care.
what'll you do for transportation?
i'll buy a hundred more cadillacs. go home!
you know what gets me about that cadillac?
go home!
when i drive it, i feel like i'm in the middle of a great big wad of bubblegum.  i don't hear anything, i don't feel anything.  i figure somebody else is driving.  it's a bitch.
go home.
i'm liable to find anything!
that's the point!  walk in there and find whatever there is to find--before alice can cover it up.
i know, i know.  i dunno.  at least she's in the same house.  sure was spooky, looking in the window there, and there she was.
so long, colonel.
you know what gets me?
let's talk about it some other time.
how short the skirts are.
good night, colonel.  it's been beautiful.
something very important about sex must have happened while we were gone.
you know what gets me?  those guys who went to the moon!  to the moon, boy!
leave me alone!  after eight years of horrendously close association, the time has come to part!  i crave solitude and time for reflection-- and then a reunion in privacy with my own flesh and blood.  you and i may not meet again for months!
months?
i'm certainly not going to come horning back into your life tomorrow, and i will not welcome your horning back into mine.  a chapter has ended.  we are old comrades--at a parting of the ways.
i'm lonesome already.
"hamburger heaven."
heaven.
can i help you, sir?
i think so, daughter.  how old are you?
eighteen--  and a half.
a springbok, an oryx, a gemsbok--a gazelle.
sir?
raw hamburger, please--and a whole onion.  i want to eat the onion like an apple.  do you understand?
yes, sir.  it was a very unusual automobile. it was a cadillac, but it had water buffalo horns where the bumpers should be.  and what to drink?
what time do you get off work, my child?
i'm sorry, sir, i'm engaged to be married.  my boyfriend would be mad if i went out with another man.
did you ever daydream that you would one day meet a friendly millionaire?
i'm engaged.
daughter--i love you very much.
you don't even know me.
you are woman.  i know woman well.
this is crazy.
destiny often seems that way. you're going to marry me.
what do you do for a living?
my parents died in an automobile accident when i was sixteen years old.  they left me a brewery and a baseball team--and other things.  i live for a living.  i've just come back from kenya--in africa.  i've been hunting mau mau there.
some kind of animal?
the pelt is black.  it's a kind of man.
anybody home?
as a matter of fact--
sir?
as a matter of fact--i am home.
hello.
hello.
are you--
you were about to ask a question?
are you--do you--
ask it!
do you know who wanda june is?
life has denied me that thrill.
do you mind if i ask who you are?
mind?  god, yes, i mind.  i'm your father's friend.  a man claiming to be the family physician let me in a while ago.
dr. woodly.
dr. woodly.  i should make a little list.
is anybody besides you here now?
the doctor was called away on an emergency.  i think it was birth.
where's mom?
you don't know where your mother is? does she put on a short skirt and go drinking all night?
she went to the fight with herb shuttle, i guess.
you think you could find me a pencil and paper?
i'll see.
and you've been roaming the streets while your mother is god-knows-where?
i was going to a funny movie, but i changed my mind.  if you're depressed, laughing doesn't help much.  when did you know my father?
man and boy.
everybody says he was so brave.
even this--"herb shuttle", you said?
he worships father.
ah!  and what sort of man is this worshiper?
he's a vacuum cleaner salesman.
i see.  and he came into the apartment one day, to demonstrate his wares, and your mother, as it happened, was charmingly en deshabille--
she met him at college.
college!
they were in the same creative writing class.
college?
she has a master's degree in english literature.
what a pity!  educating a beautiful woman is like pouring honey into a fine swiss watch.  everything stops.  and the doctor?  he worships your father, too?
he insults him all the time.
excellent!
what's good about that?
it makes life spicy.
he doesn't do it in front of me, but he does it with mother.  you know what he called father one time?
no.
"harold, the patron saint of taxidermy."
what does he do--of an athletic nature?
nothing.  he plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
aha!  he has a brilliant military record, i'm sure.
he was a stretcher-bearer in the korean war.  were you in a war with father?
big ones, little ones, teeny-weeny ones--just and otherwise.
tell me some true stories about dad.
"dad?"  dad.  the boy wants tales of derring-do. name a country.
england?
oh hell.
dad was never in england?
behind a desk for a little while.  a desk!  they had him planning air raids.  a city can't flee like a coward or fight like a man, and the choice between fleeing and fighting was at the core of the life of harold ryan.  there was only one thing he enjoyed more than watching someone make that choice, and that was making the choice himself.  ask about spain, where he was the youngest soldier in the abraham lincoln brigade.  he was a famous sniper.  they called him "la picadura"--"the sting."
"the sting."
as in "death, where is thy sting?" he killed at least fifty men, wounded hundreds more.
"the sting."
ask about the time he and i were parachuted into yugoslavia to join a guerrilla band--in the war against the nazis.
tell me that.
i saw your father fight major siegfried von konigswald, the beast of yugoslavia, hand to hand.
tell me that!  tell me that!
hid by day--fought by night.  at sunset one day, your father and i, peering through field glasses, saw a black mercedes draw up to a village inn.  it was escorted by two motorcyclists and an armored car.  out of the mercedes stepped one of the most hateful men in all of history--the beast of yugoslavia.
wow.
we blacked our hands and faces.  at midnight we crept out of the forest and into the village.  the name of the village was mhravitch. remember that name!
mhravitch.
we came up behind a sentry, and your father slit his throat before he could utter a sound.
uck.
don't care for cold steel?  a knife is worse than a bullet?
i don't know.
the story gets hairier.  should i stop?
go on.
we caught another kraut alone in a back lane.  your father choked him to death with a length of piano wire.  your father was quite a virtuoso with piano wire.  that's nicer than a knife, isn't it--as long as you don't look at the face afterwards.  the face turns a curious shade of avocado.  i must ask the doctor why that is.  at any rate, we stole into the back of the inn, and, with the permission of the management, we poisoned the wine of six krauts who were carousing there.
where did you get the poison?
we carried cyanide capsules.  we were supposed to swallow them in case we were captured.  it was your father's opinion that the krauts needed them more than we did at the time.
and one of them was the beast of yugoslavia? harold the beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testaments--editorializing about the hospitality they had received.  and your father said to him in perfect german, which he had learned in the spanish civil war, "major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard.  i am harold ryan, of the united states of america.  you, i believe, are the beast of yugoslavia."
mhravitch.  remember that name.
mhravitch.
the name will live forever.  it was there that harold ryan slew the beast of yugoslavia.  mhravitch.
when i grow up, i'm going to go to mhravitch.
it's rather a disappointment these days.  it isn't there any more.
sir?
the germans shot everybody who lived there, then leveled it, plowed it, planted turnips and cabbages in the fertile ground. they wished revenge for the slaying of the beast of yugoslavia.  to their twisted way of thinking, your father had butchered an eagle scout.  play lots of contact sports?
i wanted to go out for football, but mom was afraid i'd get hurt.
you're supposed to get hurt!
dr. woodly says he's seen hundreds of children permanently injured by football.  he says that when there's a war, everybody goes but football players.
does it bother you to have your mother engaged to a man like that?
they're not engaged.
he seems to think they are.  he told me that were.
oh no, no, no, no, no.  it can't be. how embarrassing.
you're a very good boy to respond that way.
no, no, no, no, no.
i'd like to use the sanitary facilities, if i may.
go ahead.  no, no, no, no.
thank god!
what a relief!
what's the matter now?
we got a birthday cake, kid.  did you see the cake?
are you and dr. woodly engaged?
who have you been talking to?
what difference does that make?  is dr. woodly going to be my father now?
yes, he is.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaah!
that goes double for me.
i don't want to live any more.
i feel like i want to yell my head off--just yell anything.  bulllllllllllllll-dickey!
i'll kill myself.
the wife of harold ryan is going to marry a pansy next?  this is the end of western civilization as far as i'm concerned.  you must be crazy as a fruitcake.
possibly.
how long has this been going on?
a week.  we were waiting for the right time to--
i feel as though i had been made a perfect chump of.
i'm sorry.
marry me instead.
thank you, herb.  you're a wonderful man.  you really are. everybody respects you for what you've done for scouting and the little league.
you're saying no.
i'm saying no--and thank you.
i didn't make my move fast enough. that's it, isn't it?  i was too respectful.
you were wonderful.
what's so wonderful if i lost the sale?  you poor kid.
don't touch me.
wouldn't you rather have your mother marry me than him?
no.
all my dreams have suddenly collapsed.  we did have a lot of laughs together, penelope.
it's true.
well--it was nice while it lasted. thanks for the memories.
is norbert still here?
no.
then who flushed the toilet?
father's friend.
what's his name?
don't know.
for heaven's sakes!
how do you do?
how do you do, mrs. ryan?  i'd heard you were beautiful, and so you are.  am i intruding here?
not at all.
i couldn't help overhearing that you were about to get married again.
mom?
that man is your father.
what?
there stands the loins from which you've sprung.
i don't get it.
it is you, isn't it, harold?
yes, wife, it is.  come here, boy.  your father is home.
sir?
what's the matter?
give us time.
like hugging a lamp post.
give us time, harold--to adjust to your being alive.
you were well adjusted to my being dead?
we adjust to what there is to adjust to.  perhaps paul, being young, can adjust to joy or grief immediately.  i hope he can.  i will take a little longer.  i'll be as quick as i can.
what sort of time period do you have in mind?  half an hour?  an hour?
i don't know.  this is a new disease to me.
disease?
situation.
this reunion isn't what i imagined it would be.
a telegram--a phone call might have helped.
seemed the most honest way to begin life together again--natural, unrehearsed.
well--enjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed result--surgical shock.
you feel that you're behaving as a woman should?
every fuse in my nervous system has been blown.
safe and sound, i see.  oh--you came back.
i came back.
you know each other?
we met here earlier this evening.
how neat.  how keen.
how was the emergency, doctor? profitable, i hope.
a policeman delivered the baby in a taxicab.
tough luck.  you'll have to split the fee.
are--are you crying, penelope?
she's crying because she's so happy.
that's why i'm crying.
dr. woodly?  you know who this is?
i didn't get his name.  a friend of your father?
he isn't any friend of father.
he isn't?
he is my father.
no!
i feel the same way.  what next?
what next?  you leave promptly, of course.  there is no question as to whose home this is--
none.
whose son this is, whose wife that is.  a fiancé is the most ridiculous appurtenance this household could have at this time.  good night.
good night.
wants to fix up her makeup, no doubt.
is looseleaf harper alive?
alive and hale.  he's throwing a little surprise party for his own family.  is your mother often this unstable?  penelope!
she's a real heavy sleeper sometimes.
why don't you go to bed--son.
i can't take my eyes off you.
tomorrow's another day. paul you know what my english literature teacher said about you?
can't it keep till morning?
she said you were legendary.  i wrote a theme about you, and she said, "your father is a legendary hero out of the golden age of heroes."
that's nice.  you thank her for me. go to bed and get lots of sleep, and then you thank her in the morning.
tomorrow's saturday.  anyway, she's dead.
penelope!
she was killed in the park two months ago--in the daytime.
penelope!
she was on her way home from a meeting of the african violet society, and they got her.
will you go to bed?
yes sir.  if you can't wake mom up, i've got double-decker bunks.
scat!
dad's got jungle fever, mom. what'll i do?  mom!
damn.
mom?
what are his symptoms?
shivers and sweats and groans.  his teeth chatter.  what'll we do?
what does he say to do?
he can hardly talk.
bluh.
you'd better get dr. woodly.
really?
it is an emergency, isn't it?
yeah.
then get him.
okay.
what's that all about?
we thought a doctor might help.
your old beau?
we thought it was an emergency.
i don't want that chancre mechanic in here.
he's a very decent man, harold.
we all are.
shouldn't you lie down?
when i'm dead--  or fucking.
paul said you were awfully sick.
i was, i was.  it never lasts long.
ah!  you're ambulatory!
what a brilliant diagnosis!
you know what i want?  i want you both to be friends.  i know you both, respect you both. you should be friends.
nothing would please me more.
thank god!
well now--what seems to be the trouble with the patient today?  a touch of malaria, perhaps?
i know malaria.  malaria isn't caused by the bites of bats.
you've been bitten by bats?
colonel harper and i once shared a treetop with a family of bats. there was a flash flood.  there were piranha fish in the water. that's how colonel harper lost his little toe.
you have chills?
chills, fevers, sweats.  you can describe it and name it after yourself: "the woodly galloping crud."
you can also describe its cure. i'm eating its cure.
i was going to ask.
pacqualinincheewa root.
would you say that again?
pacqualinincheewa root.  means "cougar fang." cures anything but a yellow streak down the back.
i've never heard of it.
congratulations.  by crossing twenty-eight feet of cockroach- infested carpet, you've become the third white man ever to hear of it.
are you've seen it work cures?
hundreds.
i'm so glad you like each other.  i was so scared, so scared.
have some.
thank you.  thank you very much.
i believe in miracles now.
wasn't that sweet of me?
more and more we find ourselves laying aside false pride and looking into the pharmacopoeias of primitive people.  curare, ephedrine--we've found some amazing things.
we have, have we?
that's an editorial we, of course. i haven't turned up anything personally.
everything about you is the editorial we.  take that away from you, and you'd disappear.
harold!
i could carve a better man out of a banana!
please--
you and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles.  you know who filled that bag for you?  not alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself.  men with guts filled it, by god--men with guts enough to pay the price for miracles--suffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death--
good lord.
i can just hear the editorial wee- wee-weeing when looseleaf and i start flying in pacqualinincheewa root.  i can hear the alice-sit-by- the-fires now: "we discovered it in the amazon rain forest.  now we cure you with it.  now we lower our eyes with becoming modesty as we receive heartfelt thanks."
he doesn't deserve this!  you don't know him.  it isn't fair!
he thought he could take my place. it is now my privilege to give an unambiguous account of why i don't think he's man enough to do that.
i thought she was a widow.
you were wrong, you quack!
awful.  i can't tell you how sorry i am.
say hello to your mother.
do say hello to your mother.
i'm taking her to the airport a few minutes from now.  she's going to east st. louis--to visit an aunt.
tell her to have a nice trip.
thanks.
i'm going to have to report you to the department of health.
what for?
quarantine, possibly.  you may be suffering from a loathsome disease which the american people could do without.  goodbye.
now that's what i call fun.
ghastly, cruel, unnecessary.
you'll get so you enjoy twitting weaklings again.  you used to eat it up.
i did?
we were one hell of a pair--and we'll be one again.  what we need is a honeymoon.  let's start right now.
a trip, you mean?
i had a trip.  we'll honeymoon here.  go out and play.
play?
your mother and i do not wish to be disturbed for three full hours.
he hasn't had breakfast yet.
buy yourself breakfast.  there we go.
a hundred dollars!
the smallest thing i've got.
can i get dressed first?
make it fast.
honeymoon!  honeymoon!  say it: honeymoon!
it's so--so stark.
you used to like it stark!
just--bang--we have a honeymoon.
i'm not going to strike you.  i am going to be as gentle as pie--as lemon meringue pie.  you mustn't run away now.  this is your loving husband approaching.  i'm your husband.  society approves!
now--turn around, if you would.
turn around?
i'm not about to introduce to you a jungle novelty.  what i have in mind is massage--a perfectly decent massage.  turn around, turn around.
i'm going to touch your shoulders very gently now.  you mustn't scream.  so tense, so tense.
you shouldn't have talked to norbert that way.
you're thinking with your brain instead of your body.  that's why you're so tense!  forget norbert. relax.  it's body time.
i have a brain.
we all do.  but now it's body time. relax.  ideally, the body of a woman should feel like a hot water bottle filled with devonshire cream. you feel like a paper bag crammed with curtain rods.  think of your muscles one by one.  let them go slack.  relax.  let the brain go blank.  relax.  that's the idea-- that's my girl.  now the small of the back.  let those knots over those kidneys unsnarl.
dad--
couldn't you have vanished quietly out the back door?
a hundred dollars for breakfast?
leave a tip.
i have some change!
ram it up your ass!
i've been looking at motorcycles.
go home!
you ever own a motorcycle?
you're right!  we'll take a trip. a trip is what we'll take.  i don't want to talk about motorcycles.  i don't want to talk about tits.  go home!
haven't got one.
and you went home unannounced, too?
i dunno.  yeah!  yeah!  yeah!  i did.
and how were things?
let's talk about something else.
alice got married again.
she did?
you didn't even find that out?
there was so much going on.
she married an accountant named stanley kestenbaum.
so that's it! "kestenbaum, kestenbaum." everybody was yelling "kestenbaum, kestenbaum." i thought it was some foreign language.
otherwise, how are things?
i sure didn't expect her to drop dead.
dead!
jesus.
alice is dead?
no, no--shit no.  excuse me, penelope.
for what?
for saying "shit." or is that okay now?
who's dead?
my mother-in-law.  fire engines, pulmotors, doctors, cops, coroners--
what happened?
well--i walked up to the front door. i was still alive.  big surprise. i rang the doorbell, and old mrs. wheeler answered.  she had her goddamn knitting.  i said, "guess who?" she conked right out.
how horrible.
yeah--cripes.  i never did get any sense out of alice.  she found me holding up the old lady, dead as a mackerel.  it was a bitch.  you know--maybe mrs. wheeler was going to die then and there anyway, even if i'd been the paper boy.  maybe not.  i dunno, boy.  that's civilian life for you.  who knows what kills anybody?
could have happened to anybody.
first nagasaki--now this.
how about breakfast, wife?
breakfast?
scrambled eggs, kippered herring, fried potatoes--and a whole onion. i want to eat the onion like an apple.  do you understand?
and lots of orange juice--oceans of orange juice.
mrs. wheeler is dead.
all right--bring me a side order of mrs. wheeler.  oh, hell--sit down, colonel. penelope will bring you some chow.
that is the most heartless statement i ever heard pass between human lips.
which one?
"bring me a side order of mrs. wheeler."
she's up in heaven now.  she didn't hear.  she is experiencing nothing but pure happiness.  there's nothing nicer than that.  chow!  harold ryan wants chow!
what a honeymoon.
honeymoon temporarily canceled.  the boy should still go out and exercise.  i have the impression he never gets any exercise.  he simply bloats himself with fig newtons and bakes his brains over steam radiators.
you're wrong.
then let me see him go out and get some exercise.  right now!
what kind of exercise?
beat the shit out of someone who hates you.
chow, chow, chow!  god damn it-- nutriment!
we're all going to have to go out for breakfast.  the cook quit yesterday.
you're a woman, aren't you?
cook, by god!  cook!  you're the nigger now.
people don't use that word any more.
don't lecture me on race relations. i don't have a molecule of prejudice.  i've been in battle with every kind of man there is. i've been in bed with every kind of woman there is--from a laplander to a tierra del fuegian. if i'd ever been to the south pole, there'd be a hell of a lot of penguins who looked like me.  cook!
you leave me so--so without-- without dignity.
people now have dignity when frying eggs?
they don't have to feel like slaves.
then go now--and fry with dignity-- sunnyside up.
i dunno, boy.
the educational process.
i guess.  you're lucky you don't have any old people around here.
she was about to get married again. she locked me out of the bedroom last night.
what's funny about that?
you know me, boy.
i should have torn that door off its hinges.  should have scrogged her ears off.  should have broken the bed.  what do you want?  well?
i--i was wondering--is there anything you shouldn't eat--because of jungle fever?
i could eat a raw baby crocodile.  the way to get your wife back is in bed.  do such a job on her that she'll be lucky if she can crawl around on all fours.  we're starving.  do you mind?
excuse me.
one of them is the doctor, whose weapons are compassion, unselfishness, peacefulness-- maudlin concern.
huh.
he and his love are like a retiarius.  do you know what a retiarius is?
he's a kind of gladiator who fights with a knife and a net and doesn't wear anything but a jockstrap.
how do you know that?
you told me.
when?
when we were up in the tree so long--with the bats.
oh.  i'd forgotten.
fourteen times you told me.  i counted.
really?
you'd get this funny look in your eyes, and i'd say to myself, "oh, jesus--he's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
sorry.
let me guess--breakfast is served?
no.
what then?
i do not wish to be scrogged--ever. i never heard that word, but when i heard it, i knew it was one thing i never wanted to have happen to me.
that's what you're supposed to say.
this is not a coy deception.  i do not want to be scrogged.  i want love.  i want tenderness.
you don't know you want.  that's the way god built you!
i will not be scrogged.  i remember one time i saw you wrench a hook from the throat of a fish with a pair of pliers, and you promised me that the fish couldn't feel.
it couldn't!
i'd like to have the expert opinion of the fish--along with yours.
fish can't feel.
well, i can.  some injuries, spiritual or physical, can be excruciating to me.  i'm not a silly carhop any more.  maybe you're right about fish. when i was a carhop, i didn't feel much more than a fish would.  but i've been sensitized.  i have ideas now--and solid information.  i know a lot more now--and a lot of it has to do with you.
such as?...
the whole concept of heroism--and its sexual roots.
tell me about its sexual roots.
it's complicated and i don't want to go into it now, because it's bound to sound insulting--even though nobody means for anybody to be insulted.  it's just the truth.
i like the truth.  i wouldn't be alive today if i weren't one of the biggest fans truth ever had.
well--part of it is that heroes basically hate home and never stay there very long, and make awful messes while they're there.
go on.
and they have very mixed feelings about women.  they hate them in a way.  one reason they like war so much is that they can capture enemy women and not have to make love to them slowly and gently.  they can scrog them, as you say--  for revenge.
you learned this in some college course?
i learned a lot of things in college.  actually--it was norbert who told me that.
the doctor.
yes.
and what is his most cherished possession?
his most cherished possession?  his violin, i guess.
and he keeps it in his apartment?
yes.
and no one's there now?
i don't think so.
that's too bad.  i would rather have him at home--to see what i'm going to do.
what are you going to do?
he did his best to destroy my most precious possession, which is the high opinion women have of me.  i'm now going to even that score.  i'm going to break in his door and i'm going to smash his violin.
no you're not!
why not?
because if you do--i'll leave you. harold  goodbye.
we have this new club up here in heaven.
yes, we do.
we only have two members so far, but it's growing all the time.
we have enough for a shuffleboard team.  in heaven, shuffleboard is everything.  hitler plays shuffleboard.
albert einstein plays shuffleboard.
mozart plays shuffleboard.
lewis carroll, who wrote alice in wonderland, plays shuffleboard.
jack the ripper plays shuffleboard.
walt disney, who gave us snow white and the seven dwarfs, plays shuffleboard.  jesus christ plays shuffleboard.
it was almost worth the trip--to find out that jesus christ in heaven was just another guy, playing shuffleboard.  i like his sense of humor, though--you know? he's got a blue-and-gold warm-up jacket he wears.  you know what it says on the back? "pontius pilate athletic club." most people don't get it.  most people think there really is a pontius pilate athletic club.
we're going to have jackets, aren't we?
you bet! "the harold ryan fan club." pink, eh?  with a yellow streak up the back.  we got very good tailor shops up here.  they'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want.  judas iscariot--he's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart.  he walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "go take a flying--
aha!  hello!  you're mildred, right?
i heard you were looking for me.
you were harold ryan's third wife. right?
yes.
you want to join the harold ryan fan club?  wear a pink jacket with a yellow streak up the back?
do i have to?  who's the little girl?
mr. ryan just borrowed my birthday cake.  i don't really know him.
thought you were another wife, maybe.
i'm only ten years old.
that's what he wanted--a ten-year- old wife.  he'd come home from a war or a safari, and he'd wind up talking to the little kids.
won't you please join our club? please?
honey--alcoholics anonymous takes all the time i've got--and harold ryan is an individual i would rather forget.  he drove me to drink.  he drove his first two wives to drink.
because he was cruel?
premature ejaculation.
ach soooooooooo. mildred no grown woman is a fan of premature ejaculation.  harold would come home trumpeting and roaring.  he would the kick the furniture with his boots, spit into corners and the fireplace.  he would make me presents of stuffed fish and helmets with holes in them. he would tell me that he had now earned the reward that only a woman could give him, and he'd tear off my clothes.  he would carry me into the bedroom, telling me to scream and kick my feet.  that was very important to him.  i did it.  i tried to be a good wife.  he told me to imagine a herd of stampeding water buffalo.  i couldn't do that, but i pretended i did.  it was all over--ten seconds after he'd said the word "buffalo." then he'd zip up his pants, and go outside, and tell true war stories to the little kids.  any little kids.
that is sad.
is it?  i have this theory about why men kill each other and break things.
ja?
never mind.  it's a dumb theory.  i was going to say it was all sexual..but everything is sexual...but alcohol.  peace.
go to the funeral?
of course!  not only go to it but go to it in full uniform!  rent a uniform!
that's against the law, isn't it? i can't wear a uniform anymore.
wear your uniform and every decoration, and let them despise you, if they dare.
alice would be absolutely tear-ass.
when i was a naive young recruit in spain, i used to wonder why soldiers bayoneted oil paintings, shot the noses off of statues and defecated into grand pianos.  i now understand: it was to teach civilians the deepest sort of respect for men in uniform-- uncontrollable fear.  to our women.
i didn't know we had any women left.
the world is teeming with women-- ours to enjoy.
every time i start thinking like that i get the clap.
hello.
how are you, honeybunch?
is penelope in?
the posies are for her?
i wanted to apologize.
you've come to the right man.
i forgot my vacuum cleaner.
i forget mine for years on end.
oh my god--  and you are looseleaf harper.
i told you the uniform wouldn't help.
it helped more than you know.  down deep, people were deeply affected.
you keep on saying "deep" and "deeply." i wish something good would happen on the surface sometime.
i can't get over how you guys are my friends.  harold ryan and looseleaf harper are my friends.
our pleasure.
eight years you guys were together-- through thick and thin.
for seven and a half of those years we were heavily drugged--or we would have been home long before now, believe me.  we were saved from starvation by the lupi-loopo indians, who fed us a strange blue soup.
blue soup.
it sapped our will--made us peaceful and unenterprising.  it was a form of chemical castration. we became two more sleepy indians.
so, kid--how they hanging?  or don't you say that to a little kid?
he's a man.  tell him you're a man.
i'm a man.
we've got to do something to make this boy's voice change.  i wonder if we couldn't get bull balls somewhere, and fry 'em up.  still miss your mother?
no.
you're free to go to her, if you want.  if you'd rather be a woman and run with the women, just say the word.
are we really going to find out where the elephants go to die?
i'd rather go to viet nam.
would somebody please pass me the catsup?
what you say is, "pass the fucking catsup."
pass the fucking catsup.
of course you'll go!  you're going to fly the helicopter.
i dunno.
you're so low!  look at that beautiful red meat.  you haven't touched it.
sorry.  at least you've got a place to come back to.  i don't have a place to come back to anymore.
all the more reason to go to africa.
i dunno. you know.  i used to really love that alice. do you know that?
you know her for what she is now-- garbage.
i dunno.
she was always a rotten wife!  she was against everything manly you ever wanted to do.  he was the most daring test pilot in the country at one time, and his wife made him quit.  she made him become a life insurance salesman instead.
insurance!
you actually sold insurance!
what an awful sound!
get used to it.  back door, paul.
it's possible, of course, that you'll die in africa.
i've considered that.
selling vacuum cleaners isn't the best preparation you could have.
i just want one true adventure before i die.
that can be arranged.
dad?
who was it?
it's mom.
hi, penelope.
shut up, you ninny!  you were never to come here again-- for any reason whatsoever!
i came for my clothes.
sneaking in the back door.
i rang.  it seemed like the proper door for a servile, worthless organism to use.
your clothes are at the city dump by now.  perhaps you can get a map from the department of sanitation.
i came for paul as well.
if he wants to go.
you took him to the funeral, i hear.
he'd never seen a corpse.  he's seen a dozen now.
a dozen?
it's a big and busy funeral home.
did you like it, dear?
it isn't a matter of liking.  it's a matter of getting used to death-- as a perfectly natural thing. would you mind leaving?  no woman ever walks out on harold ryan, and then comes back--for anything.
unless she has nerve.
more nerve than the doctor, i must admit.  he hasn't been home for two days.  has he suddenly lost interest in sleep and color television--and the violin?
he knows you shattered his violin.
i'm dying to hear of his reaction. the thrill of smashing something isn't in the smashing, but in the owner's reactions.
he cried.
about a broomstick and a cigar box--and the attenuated intestines of an alley cat.
two hundred years old.
he feels awful loss--which was precisely my intention.
he had hoped that someone would be playing it still--two hundred years from now.
hope.
fifty years?
you're making a joke.
i'm interested in long-term expectations.
it's engineered to last about fifteen years.
things.  oh--you silly people and your things.  things, things, things.
you and harold are friends?
he's the most wonderful guy i ever met, penelope.  he's the most complicated guy i ever met.  i can't believe it, but he's going to take me to africa with him.
things.
you feel i've done a dreadful thing--leaving him?
if i were married to him, i sure wouldn't walk out.
never mind the condition of your body and your spirit!  look after your things, your things!
and you, colonel?  let me guess: you don't know.
i dunno.
go live in a safe-deposit box--with your things. looseleaf jesus--i wouldn't want to be married to him.  you know?
what's this?
i wouldn't want to be married to me. we're too crazy.  you know?
in what way, pray tell?
i didn't like that violin thing. that was sad.
tit for tat--as simple as that.
you never played a violin.
you did?
yeah.  i practically forgot.  but after you busted that thing, i got to thinking, "jesus--maybe i'll start the violin again." that didn't just belong to woodly.  that belonged to everybody.  maybe he would have sold it to me, and i could have some fun.  after you busted the violin, boy, and penelope walked out, i thought to myself, "jesus--who could blame her?"
maybe it's time you got out.
me?
you.
okay.  okay.
you're an imbecile.
i know you think that.
everybody thinks that.
anybody who'd drop an atom bomb on a city has to be pretty dumb.
the one direct, decisive, intelligent act of your life!
i don't think so.  it could have been.
if what?
if i hadn't done it.  if i'd said to myself, "screw it.  i'm going to let all those people down there live."
they were enemies.  we were at war.
yeah, jesus--but wars would be a lot better, i think, if guys would say to themselves sometimes, "jesus--i'm not going to do that to the enemy.  that's too much." you could have been the manufacturer of that violin there, even though you don't know how to make a violin, just by not busting it up.  i could have been the father of all those people in nagasaki, and the mother, too, just by not dropping the bomb.  i sent 'em to heaven instead--and i don't think there is one.
goodbye, looseleaf.
so long, you guys.
what will you do, colonel?
i dunno.  marry the first whore who's nice to me, i guess.  get a job in a motorcycle shop.  so long, you guys.
who's going to fly our helicopter now?
what?
we got to get another pilot.
for what?
for africa.
do you really think that harold ryan would go to africa with a vacuum cleaner salesman?
you invited me.
to make an ass of yourself.
what went wrong?
we're ahead of schedule, that's all. you're finding out here what you would have found out in africa-- that you are a rabbit, born to be eaten alive.
gee whiz--
it would have been fun to see you drop your rifle and run the first time an elephant charged us.
i wouldn't drop my gun.
you're hollow, like a woman.
i'm smarter than looseleaf.
he can shoot!  he can hold his ground!  he can attack!  you're in your proper profession right now-- sucking up dirt for frumpish housewives, closet drunkards every one.
how do you know how i'd act in africa?
look how you're acting now!  this is a moment of truth, and you're almost crying.  slug me!
you're my buddy.
out!  out!
no matter what you say to me, i still think you're the greatest guy i ever knew.
out!
you--you aren't going to have any friends left, if you don't watch out.
thank god!
well--what have we here?  a family.
almost a christmas scene.
goodbye, goodbye, goodbye.
just one favor.
money?  there's plenty of that. mildred got the brewery.  you'll probably get the baseball team.
i want you to tell me that you loved me once.
testimonials of that sort are--are beyond my range.  i don't do them well.  that's a failing, i know.
i see.
see how you've upset him.  he was so merry and hale before you came home.
how unhappy he's going to be--alone in his room.
he'll play with his rifle, i expect. that will cheer him up.
rifle?
i bought him a twenty-two yesterday--on the way home from hamburger heaven.  and where is the good doctor?  have you two feathered a love nest somewhere?
he's in east st. louis with his mother--visiting an aunt.
last i heard, his mother was going alone.
he's afraid of you, harold.  he knew you'd want to fight him.  he doesn't know anything about fighting.  he hates pain.
and you, a supposedly healthy woman, do not detest him for his cowardice?
it seems highly intelligent to me.
what kind of a country has this become?  the men wear beads and refuse to fight--and the woman adore them.  america's days of greatness are over.  it has drunk the blue soup.
blue soup?
an indian narcotic we were forced to drink.  it put us in a haze--a honey-colored haze which was lavender around the edge.  we laughed, we sang, we snoozed.  when a bird called, we answered back. every living thing was our brother or our sister, we thought. looseleaf stepped on a cockroach six inches long, and we cried.  we had a funeral that went on for five days--for the cockroach!  i sang "oh promise me." can you imagine? where the hell did i ever learn the words to "oh promise me"?  looseleaf delivered a lecture on maintenance procedures for the hydraulic system of a b-36.  all the time we were drinking more blue soup, more blue soup!  never stopped drinking blue soup.  blue soup all the time. we'd go out after food in that honey-colored haze, and everything that was edible had a penumbra of lavender.
sounds quite beautiful.
beautiful, you say?  it wasn't life, it wasn't death--it wasn't anything!  beautiful?  seven years gone--  like that, like that!  seven years of silliness and random dreams! seven years of nothingness, when there could have been so much!
like what?
action!  interaction!  give and take!  challenge and response!
mom?
what's this?
what's this?
nothing.
that's a rifle you have?
no.
of course it is.  is it loaded?
no.
open the bolt!
that's a cartridge, if i'm not mistaken.  gunpowder, bullet, cartridge case, and fulminate of mercury percussion cap--all set to go. paul i was cleaning it.
pick up that cartridge and slip it back into the chamber--where it belongs.
gee whiz, dad--
welcome to manhood, you little sparrowfart!  load that gun!
dad--
too late!  it's man to man now. protecting your mother from me, are you?  protect her!`
he's a child!
with an iron penis three feet long. load it, boy.
you're begging him to kill you?
if he thinks he's man enough.
that's really what you want.  you become furious when people won't make you dead.
i'm teaching my son to be a man.
so he can kill you.  you hate your own life that much.  you beg for a hero to kill you.
i plan to live one hundred years!
no you don't.
if that's the case--what's to prevent my killing myself?
honor, i suppose.
what a handsome word.
but it's all balled up in your head with death.  the highest honor is death.  when you talk of these animals, one by one, you don't just talk of killing them.  you honored them with death.  harold--it is not honor to be killed.
if you've lived a good life, fought well--
it's still just death, the absence of life--no honor at all.  it's worse than the blue soup by far-- that nothingness.  to you, though, it's the honor that crowns them all.
may i continue with the rearing of my son?  load that gun!
then speak, by god!  can you fight with words?
i don't want to fight you.
get mad!  tell me you don't like the way i treat your mother!  tell me you wish i'd never come home!
it's your house, dad.
everybody simply evaporates!  there are guest issues to be fought out here--or to be argued, at least. the enemy, the champion of all who oppose me, is in east st. louis with his mother and his aunt!  i have so far done battle with a woman and a child and a violin.
the old heroes are going to have to get used to this, harold--the new heroes who refuse to fight. they're trying to save the planet. there's no time for battle, no point to battle anymore.
i feel mocked, insulted, with no sort of satisfaction in prospect. we don't have to fight with steel. i can fight with words.  i'm not an inarticulate ape, you know, who grabs a rock for want of a vocabulary.  call him up in east st. louis, penelope.  tell him to come here.
no.
no.
and my son, the only son of harold ryan--he's going to grow up to be a vanisher, too?
i don't know.  i hope he never hunts.  i hope he never kills another human being.
you hope this, too?
i don't know what i hope.  but i don't think you care what i hope, anyway.  you don't know me.  you don't know her, either.  i don't think you know anybody.  you talk to everybody just the same.
i'm talking to you gently now.
yeah.  but it's going to get loud again.
get out of here.
it's really that bad?
you fool, you fool.
oh--look at the poor, crucified violin, would you?
it died for your sins.
this little corpse is intended as a lesson?
there's a certain amount of information there.
lest we forget how cruel you are.
i'm going to call the police.
don't!
this is man to man.
it's healer to killer.  is that the same thing?
what brought you back?
the same hairy, humorless old gods who move you from hither to yon. "honor, " if you like.
he's a champion after all. woodly of the corpses and cripples you create for our instruction--when all we can learn from them is this: how cruel you are.
this is suicide.  go get the police.
stop!
there's going to be no bloodshed here.  i know how he'll fight--the only way he can fight: with words. the truth.  am i correct?
yes.
i can defeat him with anything from flavored toothpicks to siege howitzers.  but he got it into his little head that he could come here and demolish harold ryan with words. the truth!  correct?
correct.
what an hallucination!  oh, dear, dear, dear, dear.  oh dearie me.
you haven't heard me yet.
you intend to crack my eardrums with your voice?  will i bleed from my every orifice?  who will clean up this awful mess?
we'll find out now, won't we?
no, we won't.  no matter how it begins, it will end in death. because it always does.  isn't that always how it ends, harold--in death?
there has to be a threat of some sort, nobility of some sort, glamour of some sort, sport of some sort.  these elements are lacking.
you're a filthy, rotten bastard.
oooooo.  that hurt.
you're old--so old.
now who's being cruel?
a living fossil!  like the cockroaches and the horseshoe crabs.
we do survive, don't we?  you're going to have to apologize, of course, for calling me a bastard. that's a matter of form--not allowing you or anybody to call me a bastard.  no rush about that. just remember to apologize sometime soon.
you're a son of a bitch.
yes--well--uh--that's another one of those statements which more or less automatically requires an apology.  whenever you feel like it. it's sort of like turning off an alarm clock that's ringing loudly. your apology turns off the alarm.
i'm turning off the alarm.  i'm turning off everything.
ah!  the lady is armed.
i want you to get out of here, norbert.  harold--i want you to sit down in the chair, and not lift a finger until norbert is gone.
whoever has the gun, you see, gets to tell everybody else exactly what to do.  it's the american way.
i mean it!
then you'd better fix your bayonet, because there aren't any bullets in the gun.
where's the bullet?
help your mother find the bullet.
there it is.  give it to me.
how do i load?
load it for her.
all right!  am i exceedingly dangerous now?
the national safety council would be appalled.
then listen to me.  you're both disgusting--with your pride, your pride.  i hate you for coming here--like a federal marshal in a western film. i loved you when you stayed away. but here you are now--high noon in the superbowl!  you fool, you fool.
everything's going to be beautiful.
you fake!  you're no better than the dumbest general in the pentagon.  you're not going to beat harold. you're not going to beat anybody. you're not going to stay here, either--yammering and taunting until you're most gloriously killed. go home!
she's right, norbert--go home. woodly i haven't said all i have to say.
out!
i haven't told you, harold, how comical i think you are.
comical?
give me that goddamn thing!  now get out of here, or i might kill you.  who knows?
you've killed women?
seventeen of them--eleven by accident.  march!  move!  you, too!
norbert--you come, too.  let him go, harold.  let him go.
of course he can go--if he'll just go down on his hands and knees for a moment--and promise me that he does not find me comical in the least degree.
do it, norbert.
hands and knees, you say?
and terror, if you don't mind.
do it!
goodbye.
you're in one hell of a jam.  you realize that?
i'm high as a kite.
glands.  you're supposed to be happy when you die.  call me comical again.
you're a clown.  you're a clown who kills--but you're a clown.
i love you!  have a cigar!
evolution has made you a clown-- with a cigar.  simple butchers like you are obsolete!
i'm to be left behind--in primordial ooze?
if you're at home in the ooze, and nowhere else.
this is going to become very physical.  are you prepared for that?
you're not such a creature of the ooze that you'd hurt an unarmed man.
i'm an honorable clown?
king arthur.
you hope.
in any event, i will not beg for mercy.
no quarter asked.  no quarter given.
don't you laugh even inwardly at the heroic balderdash you spew?
cut me open.  find out.
i've struck my blow.
with spittle?
i've poisoned you. harold  lucretia borgia?  something i drank or touched?  you refused a cigar.  that's it! potassium cyanide in the humidor! treacherous lover of peace!
i put a poisoned thought in your head.  even now that poison is seeping into every lobe of your mind.  it's saying, "obsolete, obsolete, obsolete," and, "clown, clown, clown."
poison.
you have a very good mind, or i wouldn't have come back.  that mind is now asking itself, cleverly and fairly, "is harold ryan really a clown?" and the answer is, "yes."
i--i really must congratulate you. something is happening in there.
you can never take yourself seriously again!  look at all the creatures you've protected us from! did you shoot them on the elevator, as they were on their way up here to eat us alive?
no. woodly the magic root you gave me--i had it analyzed.  it was discovered by a harvard botanist in 1893!  he explored your famous jungle for five years, armed with nothing but kindness, a talent for languages, and a pocketknife.
i see.
you aren't going to hurt me.  you aren't going to hurt anybody any more.  any violent gesture will seem ridiculous--to yourself!
don quixote.
my violin is avenged!
something seems to have happened to my self-respect.
and the hell with it.  it was so tragically irrelevant, so preposterously misinformed.
the new hero is you.
i hate crowds, and i have no charisma--
you're too modest.
but the new hero will be a man of science and of peace--like me. he'll disarm you, of course.  no more guns, no more guns.
was i ever of use?
never.  for when you began to kill for the fun of it, you became the chief source of agony of mankind.
here.  finish the job.
i'm utterly satisfied.
you're making a mistake.  obsolete old carnivores like me are most dangerous when wounded.  you've wounded me.
more clowning!  don't you see?
we never quit fighting until we're dead.
you'd be killing a friend.  don't you know how much i like you?
i'm going to shoot you now.
no!
my self-respect is gone--and my soldier's honor with it.  it is now very easy for me to shoot an unarmed man.
new dignity can be yours--as a merciful man.  you can change!
like the saber-toothed tiger.
oh god--you're really going to kill me. harold it won't hurt as much as the sting of a bumblebee.  heaven is very much like paradise, they say. you'll like it there.
can i beg for mercy--on my knees?
if you want to be found that way.
what is this thing that kills me?
man, as man was meant to be--a vengeful ape who murders.  he will soon be extinct.  it's time, it's time.
don't shoot.
i've enjoyed being man.
no.  no.
get up.
no.
have it your way.  we'd both be better off dead now.
can't do it.
thank god. harold crawl home.
thank you--for my life.
it's trash now, like mine.
new lives begin!
somewhere in this city.  not here, not here.  tell penelope i loved her--in my clownish way.  and paul. tell him to be a healer, by all means.
what are you going to do?
use the sanitary facilities, if i may.
leave the rifle here.
i'll put it in paul's room, where it belongs.
give me your word of honor that that's all you're going to do.
for what it's worth now, harold ryan, the clown, gives his sacred word.
how do you do.  my name is penelope ryan.  this is a simple-minded play about men who enjoy killing--and those who don't.
i am harold ryan, her husband.  i have killed perhaps two hundred men in wars of various sorts--as a professional soldier.  i have killed thousands of other animals as well--for sport.
i am dr. norbert woodly--a physician, a healer.  i find it disgusting and frightening that a killer should be a respected member of society.  gentleness must replace violence everywhere, or we are doomed.
would you like to say something about killing, colonel?
jesus--i dunno.  you know.  what the heck.  who knows?
colonel harper, retired now, dropped an atom bomb on nagasaki during the second world war, killing seventy-four thousand people in a flash.
i dunno, boy.
you don't know?
it was a bitch.
thank you.  you can leave now.  we'll begin.
and this is my son, paul.  he was only four years old when his father disappeared.
he's coming back, mom!  he's the bravest, most wonderful man who ever lived.
i told you this was a simple-minded play.
maybe he'll come back tonight! it's his birthday.
i know.
stay home tonight!
oh, paul--
you're married!  you've already got a husband!
he's a ghost!
he's alive!
not even mutual of omaha thinks so anymore.
if you have to go out with some guy--can't he be more like dad?  herb shuttle and norbert woodly-- can't you do better than those two freaks?
thank you, kind sir.
a vacuum cleaner salesman and a fairy doctor.
a what kind of doctor?
a fairy--a queer.  everybody in the building knows he's a queer.
that's an interesting piece of news.
you're the only woman he ever took out.
not true.
still lives with his mother.
you know she has no feet!  you want him to abandon his mother, who has no husband, who has no money of her own, who has no feet?
how did she lose her feet?
in a railroad accident many years ago.
i was afraid to ask.
norbert was just beginning practice. a real man would have sold her to a catfood company, i suppose.  as far as that goes, j. edgar hoover still lives with his mother.
i didn't know that.
a lot of people don't.
j. edgar hoover plays sports.
i don't really know.
to only exercise dr. woodly ever gets is playing the violin and making that stupid peace sign.  peace.  peace.  peace, everybody.
i hate that thing.
it's beautiful.
peace, everybody--paul, penelope.
you're taking mom out tonight?
you're going out?
herb shuttle is taking me to a fight.
take plenty of cigars.
we made the date three months ago.
i must take you to an emergency ward sometime--on a saturday night. that's also fun.  i came to see selma, as a matter of fact.
she quit this afternoon.
we don't have a maid any more.
oh?
the animals made her sneeze and cry too much.
i'm glad somebody finally cried. every time i come in here and see all this unnecessary death, i want to cry.  i don't cry, of course.  not manly, you know.  did she try antihistamines?
they made her so sleepy she couldn't work.
throw out all this junk.  burn it! this room crawls with tropical disease.
everything stays as it is!
a monument to a man who thought that what the world needed most was more rhinoceros meat.
my father!
i apologize.  but you didn't know him, and neither did i.  how's your asthma?
don't worry about it.
how's the fungus around your thumbnail?
it's fine!
it's jungle rot!  this room is making everybody sick!  this is your family doctor speaking now.  here--i brought you something else to hang on your wall, for the sake of variety.
"war is not healthy for children and other living things." how lovely.
no doubt paul thinks it stinks.
i hate that thing.
keeps fairies away!
hi kid.  would you look what the car dragged in.
i'm glad you brought your vacuum cleaner.
is that a fact?
that maid just quit.  the place is a mess.  you can start in the master bedroom.
please--
he's not anybody to tell somebody else what to do in a master bedroom.
i'll get ready, herb.  i didn't expect you this soon.  please--won't everybody be nice to everybody else while i'm gone?
i keep having this nightmare--that he catches us.
doing what?
he'd kill me.  he'd be right to kill me, too--the kind of guy he is.
or was.  we haven't done anything wrong, you know.
he'd assume we had.
that's something i suppose.
all through the day i'm so confident.  that's why i'm such a good salesman, you know?  i have confidence, and i look like i have confidence, and that gives other people confidence.  people laugh sometimes when they find out i'm a vacuum cleaner salesman.  they stop laughing, though, when they find out i made forty-three thousand dollars last year.  i've got six other salesmen working under me, and what they all plug into is my confidence.  that's what charges them up.
i'm glad.
i was captain of the wrestling team at lehigh university.
i know.
if you want to wrestle, you got lehigh.  if you want to play tennis, you go to vanderbilt.
i don't want to go to vanderbilt.
you don't wrestle if you don't have supreme confidence, and i wrestled. but when i get with you, and i say to myself, "my god--here i am with the wife of harold ryan, one of the great heroes of all time--"
yes?
something happens to my confidence.
this conversation took place, incidentally, about three months before harold was declared legally dead.
when harold is definitely out of the picture, penelope, when i don't have to worry about doing him wrong or you wrong or paul wrong.  i'm going to ask you to be my wife.
i'm touched.
that's when i'll get my confidence back.
i see.
if you'll pardon the expression, that's when you'll see the fur and feathers fly.  good night.
good night.
you've got to fight from time to time.
not true.
or get eaten alive.
that's not true either--or needn't be, unless we make it true.
phooey.
which we do.  but we can stop doing that.
we simply stop doing that--dropping things on each other, eating each other alive.
penelope!  we're late!
coming.
women are always late.  you'll find out.
the late mrs. harold ryan.
i'm sick of this argument.  i just have one more thing to say: if you elect a president, you support him, no matter what he does.  that's the only way you can have a country!
it's the planet that's in ghastly trouble now and all our brothers and sisters thereon.
none of my relatives are chinese communists.  speak for yourself.
chinese maniacs and russian maniacs and american maniacs and french maniacs and british maniacs have turned this lovely, moist, nourishing blue-green ball into a doomsday device.  let a radar set and a computer mistake a hawk or a meteor for a missile, and that's the end of mankind.
you can believe that if you want. i talk to guys like you, and i want to commit suicide.  you get that weight-lifting set i sent you?
it came yesterday.  i haven't opened it yet.
maybe it's supposed to end now. maybe god wouldn't have it any other way.
start with the smallest weights. every week add a pound or two.
maybe god has let everybody who ever lived be reborn--so he or she can see how it ends.  even pithecanthropus erectus and australopithecus and sinanthropus pekensis and the neanderthalers are back on earth--to see how it ends. they're all on times square--making change for peepshows.  or recruiting marines.
you ever hear the story about the boy who carried a calf around the barn every day?
he died of a massive rupture.
you think you're so funny.  you're not even funny.  right?  right?  you don't hurt yourself if you start out slow.
you're preparing him for a career in the slaughterhouses of dubuque?  take care of your body, yes!  but don't become a bender of horseshoes and railroad spikes.  don't become obsessed by your musculature.  any one of these poor, dead animals here was a thousand times the athlete you can ever hope to be. their magic was in their muscles. your magic is in your brains!
gentlemen!  is this right for a fight?  it's been so long.
beautiful!  i've never seen that coat.
seven jaguars' skins, i'm told. harold shot every one.  shall we go?
oh no!  wear a coat of cotton--wear a coat of wool.
what?
wear a coat of domestic mink.  for the love of god, though, penelope, don't lightheartedly advertise that the last of the jaguars died for you.
she's my date tonight.  what do you want her to do--bring the poor old jaguars back to life with a bicycle pump?  bugger off!  ask paul what he thinks.  your mother looks beautiful--right?  kid?  doesn't your mother look nice?  paul?
i don't care what she wears.
something's made you sore.
don't worry about it.
you bet i'll worry about it.  i said something wrong?
it's my father's birthday--that's all.  that's all.  who cares about that?
i had not the slightest inkling.  why didn't you say so?
she doesn't care!  she's not married any more!  she's going to have fun!  i hope you have so much fun you can hardly stand it.  dr. woodly--i hope you make up even better jokes about my father than the ones you've said so far.
kid--kid--
and i wish you'd quit touching me all the time.  it drives me nuts!
what's this?
don't!
you sure misunderstood something-- and we'd better get it straight.
explain it to them.  i'm bugging out of here.
don't touch me.  get out of the way.
men can touch other men, and it doesn't mean a thing.  haven't you ever seen football players after they've won the superbowl?
where will you be?
anywhere but here.  i'd just sit here and cry about the way my father's been forgotten.
i worship your father.  that stuffed alligator your mother gave me--the one he shot?  it's the proudest thing in my apartment.
everybody talks about how rotten kids act.  grownups can be pretty rotten, too.
kid--kid--
it's good.  let him go.
if he'd just come out for the little league, the way i asked him, he'd find out we touch all the time--shove each other, slug each other, and just horse around.  i'm going to go get him--
don't!  let him have all the privacy he wants.  let him grieve, let him rage.  there has never been a funeral for his father.
i never knew when to hold it--or who to ask, or what to say.
tonight's the night.
if he'd just get into scouting, and camp out some, and see how everybody roughhouses around the fire--
what a beautiful demonstration this is of the utter necessity of rites of passage.
i feel like i've been double- crossed.  if you'd just told me it was harold's birthday--
what then?
we could have had some kind of birthday party for him.  we could have taken paul to the fight with us.
minors aren't allowed at fights.
then we'd stay home and eat venison or something, and look through the scrapbooks.  i've got a friend who has a whole freezer full of striped bass and caribou meat.  i'm going to bring that boy back.
this is very good for us.
it is?
the wilder paul is tonight, the calmer he'll be tomorrow.
as long as he keeps out of the park.
after this explosion, i think, he'll be able to accept the fact that his mother is going to marry again.
the only thing i ever told him about life was, "keep out of the park after the sun goes down."
we've got to dump shuttle.  he brings his vacuum cleaner on dates?
that's the xke.
the what?
it's an experimental model.  he doesn't dare leave it in his car, for fear it will fall into the hands of competition.
what kind of a life is that?
he told me one time what the proudest moment of his life was. he made eagle scout when he was twenty-nine years old.  oh, norbert--promise me that paul has not gone into the park!
if you warned him against it as much as you say, it's almost a certainty.
no!  oh no!  three people murdered in there in the last six weeks! the police won't even go in there any more.
i wish paul luck.
it's suicide!
i'd be dead by now if that were the case.
meaning?
every night, penelope, for the past two years, i've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
why would you do that?
to show myself how brave i am.  the issue's in doubt, you know--since i'm always for peace--
i'm amazed.
me, too.  i know something not even the police know--what's in the park at midnight.  nothing.  or, when i'm in there, there's me in there. fear and nobody and me.
and maybe paul.  what about the murderers?  they're in there!
they didn't murder me.
paul's only twelve years old.
he can make the sound of human footsteps--which is a terrifying sound.
we've got to rescue him.
if he is in the park, luck is all that can save him now, and there's plenty of that.
he's not your son.
no.  but he's going to be.  if he is in the park and he comes out safely on the other side, i can say to him, "you and i are the only men with balls enough to walk through the park at midnight."  on that we can build.
it's a jungle out there.
that's been said before.
he'd go to a movie.  i think that's what he'd do.  if i were sure he was in a movie, i could stop worrying.  we could have him paged.
did you see him?
yeah.
is he all right?
far as i know.
is he coming home?
he ditched me.  he started running, and i started running, then he lost me in the park.
the park!
it's dark in there. penelope and that's where he is!
i figure he ducked in one place and ducked out another.
you figure!
then i saw this bakery store that was still open, so i bought a birthday cake.
a what?
for harold.  when paul comes home, we can have some birthday cake.
how nice.
they had this cake somebody else hadn't picked up.  it says, "happy birthday, somebody else."
"happy birthday, wanda june!"
we can take off the "wanda june" with a butter knife.
did you talk to paul?
before he started to run.  he said his father carried a key to this apartment around his neck--and someday we'd all hear the sound of that key in the door.
we've got to find him.  i want you to show me exactly where you saw him last.  and you stay here, norbert, in case he comes home.  that's all he said--the thing about the key?
he said one other thing.  it wasn't very nice.
what was it?
he told me to take a flying fuck at the moon.
ooops.
ooops.
can i--uh--help you gentlemen?
gentlemen--that's nice.
you startled me.
the door ws unlocked.  is it always unlocked?
it's always locked.
but here you are inside, aren't you?
you're--you're old friends of harold ryan?
we tried to be.  we tried to be.
he's dead, you know.
dead!  such a final word.  dead!  did you hear that?
hello?  oh--hello, mother.
hello, mother.
...who?... did she say how far apart the pains were?... when was that?... oh dear.
oh dear.
call her back--tell her to head for the hospital.  tell the hospital to expect her.  i'll leave right now.
look--i'm sorry--i have to go.
we'll miss you so.
look--this isn't my apartment, and there isn't anybody else here.  mrs. ryan won't be home for a while.
oh, oh, oh--i thought it was your apartment.  you seemed at home here.
i'm a neighbor.  i have the apartment across the hall.  i have to go to the hospital now.  an emergency.
i mean--i can't leave you here. you'll have to go.  i'll tell mrs. ryan you were here.  you can come back later.
ahh--then she's still alive.
she's fine.  please--
and still mrs. harold ryan?
will you please go?  an emergency!
she still has just the one child-- the boy?
yes!  yes!  the boy!  one boy!
and what, exactly, is your relationship to mrs. ryan?
neighbor!  doctor!  i live across the hall.
and you come into mrs. ryan's apartment as often as you please, looking into various health matters?
yes!  please!  you've got to get out right now!
just her neighbor and doctor? that's all?
and her fiancé!
and her fiancé!  how nice.  i hope you'll be very happy--or is that what one says to the woman?
i've got to run!
you wish the woman good luck, and you tell the man how fortunate he is.  that's how it goes.
i've literally got to run!
i won't try to keep up with you. i'm not as fast on my feet as i once was.
miss me, baby?
i dunno, boy.
hm?
it's a bitch.
a bitch.
didn't recognize you.
we've never met.
i wonder who'll recognize us first? they'll wet their pants.
i hope the men do.  i would rather the women didn't.
i'm gonna wet my pants.
home, sweet home.
one thing, anyway--at least penelope didn't throw out all your crap.  i bet alice threw out all my crap after i'd been gone a week.
we'll see.
it appears that we're going to have to wait awhile for any more action here, colonel.  why don't you run on home while the evening's young.
home.  jesus.  i'm like this.  home!
home is important to a man.
you know what gets me?
no.
how all the magazines show tits today.
um.
used to be against the law, didn't it?
i suppose.
must have changed that law.
home.
you know what gets me?
you know what gets me?
oh, shit.
how everybody says "fuck" and "shit" all the time.  i used to be scared shitless i'd say "fuck" or "shit" in public, by accident.  now everybody says "fuck" and "shit," "fuck" and "shit" all the time. something very big must have happened while we were out of the country.
looseleaf--will you get the hell home?
at least we found the diamonds.
at least!
i'd really feel stupid if we didn't bring anything back home.
it's enough that you've brought yourself home!
i wish you'd tell alice that.  and that goddamn mrs. wheeler.
tell them yourself!
you don't know my mother-in-law, boy.
after eight years in the jungle with you, i know mrs. wheeler better than i know anybody in the universe!
i didn't tell you everything.
the time we were in a tree for fourteen days, you certainly tried to tell me everything about mrs. wheeler.
i didn't even scratch the surface. you're lucky, boy.  you come home, and nobody's here.  when i go home, everybody's going to be there.
this room is full of ghosts.
you're lucky, boy.  my house is gonna be filled with people.
you know what gets me?
go home!
thank god we found the fucking diamonds!
the hell with the diamonds!
you were rich before.  this is the first time i was ever rich.
go home!  show them how rich you are for a change!
can i have the cadillac?
take the cadillac and drive it off a cliff, for all i care.
what'll you do for transportation?
i'll buy a hundred more cadillacs. go home!
you know what gets me about that cadillac?
go home!
when i drive it, i feel like i'm in the middle of a great big wad of bubblegum.  i don't hear anything, i don't feel anything.  i figure somebody else is driving.  it's a bitch.
go home.
i'm liable to find anything!
that's the point!  walk in there and find whatever there is to find--before alice can cover it up.
i know, i know.  i dunno.  at least she's in the same house.  sure was spooky, looking in the window there, and there she was.
so long, colonel.
you know what gets me?
let's talk about it some other time.
how short the skirts are.
good night, colonel.  it's been beautiful.
something very important about sex must have happened while we were gone.
you know what gets me?  those guys who went to the moon!  to the moon, boy!
leave me alone!  after eight years of horrendously close association, the time has come to part!  i crave solitude and time for reflection-- and then a reunion in privacy with my own flesh and blood.  you and i may not meet again for months!
months?
i'm certainly not going to come horning back into your life tomorrow, and i will not welcome your horning back into mine.  a chapter has ended.  we are old comrades--at a parting of the ways.
i'm lonesome already.
"hamburger heaven."
heaven.
can i help you, sir?
i think so, daughter.  how old are you?
eighteen--  and a half.
a springbok, an oryx, a gemsbok--a gazelle.
sir?
raw hamburger, please--and a whole onion.  i want to eat the onion like an apple.  do you understand?
yes, sir.  it was a very unusual automobile. it was a cadillac, but it had water buffalo horns where the bumpers should be.  and what to drink?
what time do you get off work, my child?
i'm sorry, sir, i'm engaged to be married.  my boyfriend would be mad if i went out with another man.
did you ever daydream that you would one day meet a friendly millionaire?
i'm engaged.
daughter--i love you very much.
you don't even know me.
you are woman.  i know woman well.
this is crazy.
destiny often seems that way. you're going to marry me.
what do you do for a living?
my parents died in an automobile accident when i was sixteen years old.  they left me a brewery and a baseball team--and other things.  i live for a living.  i've just come back from kenya--in africa.  i've been hunting mau mau there.
some kind of animal?
the pelt is black.  it's a kind of man.
anybody home?
as a matter of fact--
sir?
as a matter of fact--i am home.
hello.
hello.
are you--
you were about to ask a question?
are you--do you--
ask it!
do you know who wanda june is?
life has denied me that thrill.
do you mind if i ask who you are?
mind?  god, yes, i mind.  i'm your father's friend.  a man claiming to be the family physician let me in a while ago.
dr. woodly.
dr. woodly.  i should make a little list.
is anybody besides you here now?
the doctor was called away on an emergency.  i think it was birth.
where's mom?
you don't know where your mother is? does she put on a short skirt and go drinking all night?
she went to the fight with herb shuttle, i guess.
you think you could find me a pencil and paper?
i'll see.
and you've been roaming the streets while your mother is god-knows-where?
i was going to a funny movie, but i changed my mind.  if you're depressed, laughing doesn't help much.  when did you know my father?
man and boy.
everybody says he was so brave.
even this--"herb shuttle", you said?
he worships father.
ah!  and what sort of man is this worshiper?
he's a vacuum cleaner salesman.
i see.  and he came into the apartment one day, to demonstrate his wares, and your mother, as it happened, was charmingly en deshabille--
she met him at college.
college!
they were in the same creative writing class.
college?
she has a master's degree in english literature.
what a pity!  educating a beautiful woman is like pouring honey into a fine swiss watch.  everything stops.  and the doctor?  he worships your father, too?
he insults him all the time.
excellent!
what's good about that?
it makes life spicy.
he doesn't do it in front of me, but he does it with mother.  you know what he called father one time?
no.
"harold, the patron saint of taxidermy."
what does he do--of an athletic nature?
nothing.  he plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
aha!  he has a brilliant military record, i'm sure.
he was a stretcher-bearer in the korean war.  were you in a war with father?
big ones, little ones, teeny-weeny ones--just and otherwise.
tell me some true stories about dad.
"dad?"  dad.  the boy wants tales of derring-do. name a country.
england?
oh hell.
dad was never in england?
behind a desk for a little while.  a desk!  they had him planning air raids.  a city can't flee like a coward or fight like a man, and the choice between fleeing and fighting was at the core of the life of harold ryan.  there was only one thing he enjoyed more than watching someone make that choice, and that was making the choice himself.  ask about spain, where he was the youngest soldier in the abraham lincoln brigade.  he was a famous sniper.  they called him "la picadura"--"the sting."
"the sting."
as in "death, where is thy sting?" he killed at least fifty men, wounded hundreds more.
"the sting."
ask about the time he and i were parachuted into yugoslavia to join a guerrilla band--in the war against the nazis.
tell me that.
i saw your father fight major siegfried von konigswald, the beast of yugoslavia, hand to hand.
tell me that!  tell me that!
hid by day--fought by night.  at sunset one day, your father and i, peering through field glasses, saw a black mercedes draw up to a village inn.  it was escorted by two motorcyclists and an armored car.  out of the mercedes stepped one of the most hateful men in all of history--the beast of yugoslavia.
wow.
we blacked our hands and faces.  at midnight we crept out of the forest and into the village.  the name of the village was mhravitch. remember that name!
mhravitch.
we came up behind a sentry, and your father slit his throat before he could utter a sound.
uck.
don't care for cold steel?  a knife is worse than a bullet?
i don't know.
the story gets hairier.  should i stop?
go on.
we caught another kraut alone in a back lane.  your father choked him to death with a length of piano wire.  your father was quite a virtuoso with piano wire.  that's nicer than a knife, isn't it--as long as you don't look at the face afterwards.  the face turns a curious shade of avocado.  i must ask the doctor why that is.  at any rate, we stole into the back of the inn, and, with the permission of the management, we poisoned the wine of six krauts who were carousing there.
where did you get the poison?
we carried cyanide capsules.  we were supposed to swallow them in case we were captured.  it was your father's opinion that the krauts needed them more than we did at the time.
and one of them was the beast of yugoslavia? harold the beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testaments--editorializing about the hospitality they had received.  and your father said to him in perfect german, which he had learned in the spanish civil war, "major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard.  i am harold ryan, of the united states of america.  you, i believe, are the beast of yugoslavia."
mhravitch.  remember that name.
mhravitch.
the name will live forever.  it was there that harold ryan slew the beast of yugoslavia.  mhravitch.
when i grow up, i'm going to go to mhravitch.
it's rather a disappointment these days.  it isn't there any more.
sir?
the germans shot everybody who lived there, then leveled it, plowed it, planted turnips and cabbages in the fertile ground. they wished revenge for the slaying of the beast of yugoslavia.  to their twisted way of thinking, your father had butchered an eagle scout.  play lots of contact sports?
i wanted to go out for football, but mom was afraid i'd get hurt.
you're supposed to get hurt!
dr. woodly says he's seen hundreds of children permanently injured by football.  he says that when there's a war, everybody goes but football players.
does it bother you to have your mother engaged to a man like that?
they're not engaged.
he seems to think they are.  he told me that were.
oh no, no, no, no, no.  it can't be. how embarrassing.
you're a very good boy to respond that way.
no, no, no, no, no.
i'd like to use the sanitary facilities, if i may.
go ahead.  no, no, no, no.
thank god!
what a relief!
what's the matter now?
we got a birthday cake, kid.  did you see the cake?
are you and dr. woodly engaged?
who have you been talking to?
what difference does that make?  is dr. woodly going to be my father now?
yes, he is.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaah!
that goes double for me.
i don't want to live any more.
i feel like i want to yell my head off--just yell anything.  bulllllllllllllll-dickey!
i'll kill myself.
the wife of harold ryan is going to marry a pansy next?  this is the end of western civilization as far as i'm concerned.  you must be crazy as a fruitcake.
possibly.
how long has this been going on?
a week.  we were waiting for the right time to--
i feel as though i had been made a perfect chump of.
i'm sorry.
marry me instead.
thank you, herb.  you're a wonderful man.  you really are. everybody respects you for what you've done for scouting and the little league.
you're saying no.
i'm saying no--and thank you.
i didn't make my move fast enough. that's it, isn't it?  i was too respectful.
you were wonderful.
what's so wonderful if i lost the sale?  you poor kid.
don't touch me.
wouldn't you rather have your mother marry me than him?
no.
all my dreams have suddenly collapsed.  we did have a lot of laughs together, penelope.
it's true.
well--it was nice while it lasted. thanks for the memories.
is norbert still here?
no.
then who flushed the toilet?
father's friend.
what's his name?
don't know.
for heaven's sakes!
how do you do?
how do you do, mrs. ryan?  i'd heard you were beautiful, and so you are.  am i intruding here?
not at all.
i couldn't help overhearing that you were about to get married again.
mom?
that man is your father.
what?
there stands the loins from which you've sprung.
i don't get it.
it is you, isn't it, harold?
yes, wife, it is.  come here, boy.  your father is home.
sir?
what's the matter?
give us time.
like hugging a lamp post.
give us time, harold--to adjust to your being alive.
you were well adjusted to my being dead?
we adjust to what there is to adjust to.  perhaps paul, being young, can adjust to joy or grief immediately.  i hope he can.  i will take a little longer.  i'll be as quick as i can.
what sort of time period do you have in mind?  half an hour?  an hour?
i don't know.  this is a new disease to me.
disease?
situation.
this reunion isn't what i imagined it would be.
a telegram--a phone call might have helped.
seemed the most honest way to begin life together again--natural, unrehearsed.
well--enjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed result--surgical shock.
you feel that you're behaving as a woman should?
every fuse in my nervous system has been blown.
safe and sound, i see.  oh--you came back.
i came back.
you know each other?
we met here earlier this evening.
how neat.  how keen.
how was the emergency, doctor? profitable, i hope.
a policeman delivered the baby in a taxicab.
tough luck.  you'll have to split the fee.
are--are you crying, penelope?
she's crying because she's so happy.
that's why i'm crying.
dr. woodly?  you know who this is?
i didn't get his name.  a friend of your father?
he isn't any friend of father.
he isn't?
he is my father.
no!
i feel the same way.  what next?
what next?  you leave promptly, of course.  there is no question as to whose home this is--
none.
whose son this is, whose wife that is.  a fiancé is the most ridiculous appurtenance this household could have at this time.  good night.
good night.
wants to fix up her makeup, no doubt.
is looseleaf harper alive?
alive and hale.  he's throwing a little surprise party for his own family.  is your mother often this unstable?  penelope!
she's a real heavy sleeper sometimes.
why don't you go to bed--son.
i can't take my eyes off you.
tomorrow's another day. paul you know what my english literature teacher said about you?
can't it keep till morning?
she said you were legendary.  i wrote a theme about you, and she said, "your father is a legendary hero out of the golden age of heroes."
that's nice.  you thank her for me. go to bed and get lots of sleep, and then you thank her in the morning.
tomorrow's saturday.  anyway, she's dead.
penelope!
she was killed in the park two months ago--in the daytime.
penelope!
she was on her way home from a meeting of the african violet society, and they got her.
will you go to bed?
yes sir.  if you can't wake mom up, i've got double-decker bunks.
scat!
dad's got jungle fever, mom. what'll i do?  mom!
damn.
mom?
what are his symptoms?
shivers and sweats and groans.  his teeth chatter.  what'll we do?
what does he say to do?
he can hardly talk.
bluh.
you'd better get dr. woodly.
really?
it is an emergency, isn't it?
yeah.
then get him.
okay.
what's that all about?
we thought a doctor might help.
your old beau?
we thought it was an emergency.
i don't want that chancre mechanic in here.
he's a very decent man, harold.
we all are.
shouldn't you lie down?
when i'm dead--  or fucking.
paul said you were awfully sick.
i was, i was.  it never lasts long.
ah!  you're ambulatory!
what a brilliant diagnosis!
you know what i want?  i want you both to be friends.  i know you both, respect you both. you should be friends.
nothing would please me more.
thank god!
well now--what seems to be the trouble with the patient today?  a touch of malaria, perhaps?
i know malaria.  malaria isn't caused by the bites of bats.
you've been bitten by bats?
colonel harper and i once shared a treetop with a family of bats. there was a flash flood.  there were piranha fish in the water. that's how colonel harper lost his little toe.
you have chills?
chills, fevers, sweats.  you can describe it and name it after yourself: "the woodly galloping crud."
you can also describe its cure. i'm eating its cure.
i was going to ask.
pacqualinincheewa root.
would you say that again?
pacqualinincheewa root.  means "cougar fang." cures anything but a yellow streak down the back.
i've never heard of it.
congratulations.  by crossing twenty-eight feet of cockroach- infested carpet, you've become the third white man ever to hear of it.
are you've seen it work cures?
hundreds.
i'm so glad you like each other.  i was so scared, so scared.
have some.
thank you.  thank you very much.
i believe in miracles now.
wasn't that sweet of me?
more and more we find ourselves laying aside false pride and looking into the pharmacopoeias of primitive people.  curare, ephedrine--we've found some amazing things.
we have, have we?
that's an editorial we, of course. i haven't turned up anything personally.
everything about you is the editorial we.  take that away from you, and you'd disappear.
harold!
i could carve a better man out of a banana!
please--
you and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles.  you know who filled that bag for you?  not alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself.  men with guts filled it, by god--men with guts enough to pay the price for miracles--suffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death--
good lord.
i can just hear the editorial wee- wee-weeing when looseleaf and i start flying in pacqualinincheewa root.  i can hear the alice-sit-by- the-fires now: "we discovered it in the amazon rain forest.  now we cure you with it.  now we lower our eyes with becoming modesty as we receive heartfelt thanks."
he doesn't deserve this!  you don't know him.  it isn't fair!
he thought he could take my place. it is now my privilege to give an unambiguous account of why i don't think he's man enough to do that.
i thought she was a widow.
you were wrong, you quack!
awful.  i can't tell you how sorry i am.
say hello to your mother.
do say hello to your mother.
i'm taking her to the airport a few minutes from now.  she's going to east st. louis--to visit an aunt.
tell her to have a nice trip.
thanks.
i'm going to have to report you to the department of health.
what for?
quarantine, possibly.  you may be suffering from a loathsome disease which the american people could do without.  goodbye.
now that's what i call fun.
ghastly, cruel, unnecessary.
you'll get so you enjoy twitting weaklings again.  you used to eat it up.
i did?
we were one hell of a pair--and we'll be one again.  what we need is a honeymoon.  let's start right now.
a trip, you mean?
i had a trip.  we'll honeymoon here.  go out and play.
play?
your mother and i do not wish to be disturbed for three full hours.
he hasn't had breakfast yet.
buy yourself breakfast.  there we go.
a hundred dollars!
the smallest thing i've got.
can i get dressed first?
make it fast.
honeymoon!  honeymoon!  say it: honeymoon!
it's so--so stark.
you used to like it stark!
just--bang--we have a honeymoon.
i'm not going to strike you.  i am going to be as gentle as pie--as lemon meringue pie.  you mustn't run away now.  this is your loving husband approaching.  i'm your husband.  society approves!
now--turn around, if you would.
turn around?
i'm not about to introduce to you a jungle novelty.  what i have in mind is massage--a perfectly decent massage.  turn around, turn around.
i'm going to touch your shoulders very gently now.  you mustn't scream.  so tense, so tense.
you shouldn't have talked to norbert that way.
you're thinking with your brain instead of your body.  that's why you're so tense!  forget norbert. relax.  it's body time.
i have a brain.
we all do.  but now it's body time. relax.  ideally, the body of a woman should feel like a hot water bottle filled with devonshire cream. you feel like a paper bag crammed with curtain rods.  think of your muscles one by one.  let them go slack.  relax.  let the brain go blank.  relax.  that's the idea-- that's my girl.  now the small of the back.  let those knots over those kidneys unsnarl.
dad--
couldn't you have vanished quietly out the back door?
a hundred dollars for breakfast?
leave a tip.
i have some change!
ram it up your ass!
i've been looking at motorcycles.
go home!
you ever own a motorcycle?
you're right!  we'll take a trip. a trip is what we'll take.  i don't want to talk about motorcycles.  i don't want to talk about tits.  go home!
haven't got one.
and you went home unannounced, too?
i dunno.  yeah!  yeah!  yeah!  i did.
and how were things?
let's talk about something else.
alice got married again.
she did?
you didn't even find that out?
there was so much going on.
she married an accountant named stanley kestenbaum.
so that's it! "kestenbaum, kestenbaum." everybody was yelling "kestenbaum, kestenbaum." i thought it was some foreign language.
otherwise, how are things?
i sure didn't expect her to drop dead.
dead!
jesus.
alice is dead?
no, no--shit no.  excuse me, penelope.
for what?
for saying "shit." or is that okay now?
who's dead?
my mother-in-law.  fire engines, pulmotors, doctors, cops, coroners--
what happened?
well--i walked up to the front door. i was still alive.  big surprise. i rang the doorbell, and old mrs. wheeler answered.  she had her goddamn knitting.  i said, "guess who?" she conked right out.
how horrible.
yeah--cripes.  i never did get any sense out of alice.  she found me holding up the old lady, dead as a mackerel.  it was a bitch.  you know--maybe mrs. wheeler was going to die then and there anyway, even if i'd been the paper boy.  maybe not.  i dunno, boy.  that's civilian life for you.  who knows what kills anybody?
could have happened to anybody.
first nagasaki--now this.
how about breakfast, wife?
breakfast?
scrambled eggs, kippered herring, fried potatoes--and a whole onion. i want to eat the onion like an apple.  do you understand?
and lots of orange juice--oceans of orange juice.
mrs. wheeler is dead.
all right--bring me a side order of mrs. wheeler.  oh, hell--sit down, colonel. penelope will bring you some chow.
that is the most heartless statement i ever heard pass between human lips.
which one?
"bring me a side order of mrs. wheeler."
she's up in heaven now.  she didn't hear.  she is experiencing nothing but pure happiness.  there's nothing nicer than that.  chow!  harold ryan wants chow!
what a honeymoon.
honeymoon temporarily canceled.  the boy should still go out and exercise.  i have the impression he never gets any exercise.  he simply bloats himself with fig newtons and bakes his brains over steam radiators.
you're wrong.
then let me see him go out and get some exercise.  right now!
what kind of exercise?
beat the shit out of someone who hates you.
chow, chow, chow!  god damn it-- nutriment!
we're all going to have to go out for breakfast.  the cook quit yesterday.
you're a woman, aren't you?
cook, by god!  cook!  you're the nigger now.
people don't use that word any more.
don't lecture me on race relations. i don't have a molecule of prejudice.  i've been in battle with every kind of man there is. i've been in bed with every kind of woman there is--from a laplander to a tierra del fuegian. if i'd ever been to the south pole, there'd be a hell of a lot of penguins who looked like me.  cook!
you leave me so--so without-- without dignity.
people now have dignity when frying eggs?
they don't have to feel like slaves.
then go now--and fry with dignity-- sunnyside up.
i dunno, boy.
the educational process.
i guess.  you're lucky you don't have any old people around here.
she was about to get married again. she locked me out of the bedroom last night.
what's funny about that?
you know me, boy.
i should have torn that door off its hinges.  should have scrogged her ears off.  should have broken the bed.  what do you want?  well?
i--i was wondering--is there anything you shouldn't eat--because of jungle fever?
i could eat a raw baby crocodile.  the way to get your wife back is in bed.  do such a job on her that she'll be lucky if she can crawl around on all fours.  we're starving.  do you mind?
excuse me.
one of them is the doctor, whose weapons are compassion, unselfishness, peacefulness-- maudlin concern.
huh.
he and his love are like a retiarius.  do you know what a retiarius is?
he's a kind of gladiator who fights with a knife and a net and doesn't wear anything but a jockstrap.
how do you know that?
you told me.
when?
when we were up in the tree so long--with the bats.
oh.  i'd forgotten.
fourteen times you told me.  i counted.
really?
you'd get this funny look in your eyes, and i'd say to myself, "oh, jesus--he's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
sorry.
let me guess--breakfast is served?
no.
what then?
i do not wish to be scrogged--ever. i never heard that word, but when i heard it, i knew it was one thing i never wanted to have happen to me.
that's what you're supposed to say.
this is not a coy deception.  i do not want to be scrogged.  i want love.  i want tenderness.
you don't know you want.  that's the way god built you!
i will not be scrogged.  i remember one time i saw you wrench a hook from the throat of a fish with a pair of pliers, and you promised me that the fish couldn't feel.
it couldn't!
i'd like to have the expert opinion of the fish--along with yours.
fish can't feel.
well, i can.  some injuries, spiritual or physical, can be excruciating to me.  i'm not a silly carhop any more.  maybe you're right about fish. when i was a carhop, i didn't feel much more than a fish would.  but i've been sensitized.  i have ideas now--and solid information.  i know a lot more now--and a lot of it has to do with you.
such as?...
the whole concept of heroism--and its sexual roots.
tell me about its sexual roots.
it's complicated and i don't want to go into it now, because it's bound to sound insulting--even though nobody means for anybody to be insulted.  it's just the truth.
i like the truth.  i wouldn't be alive today if i weren't one of the biggest fans truth ever had.
well--part of it is that heroes basically hate home and never stay there very long, and make awful messes while they're there.
go on.
and they have very mixed feelings about women.  they hate them in a way.  one reason they like war so much is that they can capture enemy women and not have to make love to them slowly and gently.  they can scrog them, as you say--  for revenge.
you learned this in some college course?
i learned a lot of things in college.  actually--it was norbert who told me that.
the doctor.
yes.
and what is his most cherished possession?
his most cherished possession?  his violin, i guess.
and he keeps it in his apartment?
yes.
and no one's there now?
i don't think so.
that's too bad.  i would rather have him at home--to see what i'm going to do.
what are you going to do?
he did his best to destroy my most precious possession, which is the high opinion women have of me.  i'm now going to even that score.  i'm going to break in his door and i'm going to smash his violin.
no you're not!
why not?
because if you do--i'll leave you. harold  goodbye.
we have this new club up here in heaven.
yes, we do.
we only have two members so far, but it's growing all the time.
we have enough for a shuffleboard team.  in heaven, shuffleboard is everything.  hitler plays shuffleboard.
albert einstein plays shuffleboard.
mozart plays shuffleboard.
lewis carroll, who wrote alice in wonderland, plays shuffleboard.
jack the ripper plays shuffleboard.
walt disney, who gave us snow white and the seven dwarfs, plays shuffleboard.  jesus christ plays shuffleboard.
it was almost worth the trip--to find out that jesus christ in heaven was just another guy, playing shuffleboard.  i like his sense of humor, though--you know? he's got a blue-and-gold warm-up jacket he wears.  you know what it says on the back? "pontius pilate athletic club." most people don't get it.  most people think there really is a pontius pilate athletic club.
we're going to have jackets, aren't we?
you bet! "the harold ryan fan club." pink, eh?  with a yellow streak up the back.  we got very good tailor shops up here.  they'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want.  judas iscariot--he's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart.  he walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "go take a flying--
aha!  hello!  you're mildred, right?
i heard you were looking for me.
you were harold ryan's third wife. right?
yes.
you want to join the harold ryan fan club?  wear a pink jacket with a yellow streak up the back?
do i have to?  who's the little girl?
mr. ryan just borrowed my birthday cake.  i don't really know him.
thought you were another wife, maybe.
i'm only ten years old.
that's what he wanted--a ten-year- old wife.  he'd come home from a war or a safari, and he'd wind up talking to the little kids.
won't you please join our club? please?
honey--alcoholics anonymous takes all the time i've got--and harold ryan is an individual i would rather forget.  he drove me to drink.  he drove his first two wives to drink.
because he was cruel?
premature ejaculation.
ach soooooooooo. mildred no grown woman is a fan of premature ejaculation.  harold would come home trumpeting and roaring.  he would the kick the furniture with his boots, spit into corners and the fireplace.  he would make me presents of stuffed fish and helmets with holes in them. he would tell me that he had now earned the reward that only a woman could give him, and he'd tear off my clothes.  he would carry me into the bedroom, telling me to scream and kick my feet.  that was very important to him.  i did it.  i tried to be a good wife.  he told me to imagine a herd of stampeding water buffalo.  i couldn't do that, but i pretended i did.  it was all over--ten seconds after he'd said the word "buffalo." then he'd zip up his pants, and go outside, and tell true war stories to the little kids.  any little kids.
that is sad.
is it?  i have this theory about why men kill each other and break things.
ja?
never mind.  it's a dumb theory.  i was going to say it was all sexual..but everything is sexual...but alcohol.  peace.
go to the funeral?
of course!  not only go to it but go to it in full uniform!  rent a uniform!
that's against the law, isn't it? i can't wear a uniform anymore.
wear your uniform and every decoration, and let them despise you, if they dare.
alice would be absolutely tear-ass.
when i was a naive young recruit in spain, i used to wonder why soldiers bayoneted oil paintings, shot the noses off of statues and defecated into grand pianos.  i now understand: it was to teach civilians the deepest sort of respect for men in uniform-- uncontrollable fear.  to our women.
i didn't know we had any women left.
the world is teeming with women-- ours to enjoy.
every time i start thinking like that i get the clap.
hello.
how are you, honeybunch?
is penelope in?
the posies are for her?
i wanted to apologize.
you've come to the right man.
i forgot my vacuum cleaner.
i forget mine for years on end.
oh my god--  and you are looseleaf harper.
i told you the uniform wouldn't help.
it helped more than you know.  down deep, people were deeply affected.
you keep on saying "deep" and "deeply." i wish something good would happen on the surface sometime.
i can't get over how you guys are my friends.  harold ryan and looseleaf harper are my friends.
our pleasure.
eight years you guys were together-- through thick and thin.
for seven and a half of those years we were heavily drugged--or we would have been home long before now, believe me.  we were saved from starvation by the lupi-loopo indians, who fed us a strange blue soup.
blue soup.
it sapped our will--made us peaceful and unenterprising.  it was a form of chemical castration. we became two more sleepy indians.
so, kid--how they hanging?  or don't you say that to a little kid?
he's a man.  tell him you're a man.
i'm a man.
we've got to do something to make this boy's voice change.  i wonder if we couldn't get bull balls somewhere, and fry 'em up.  still miss your mother?
no.
you're free to go to her, if you want.  if you'd rather be a woman and run with the women, just say the word.
are we really going to find out where the elephants go to die?
i'd rather go to viet nam.
would somebody please pass me the catsup?
what you say is, "pass the fucking catsup."
pass the fucking catsup.
of course you'll go!  you're going to fly the helicopter.
i dunno.
you're so low!  look at that beautiful red meat.  you haven't touched it.
sorry.  at least you've got a place to come back to.  i don't have a place to come back to anymore.
all the more reason to go to africa.
i dunno. you know.  i used to really love that alice. do you know that?
you know her for what she is now-- garbage.
i dunno.
she was always a rotten wife!  she was against everything manly you ever wanted to do.  he was the most daring test pilot in the country at one time, and his wife made him quit.  she made him become a life insurance salesman instead.
insurance!
you actually sold insurance!
what an awful sound!
get used to it.  back door, paul.
it's possible, of course, that you'll die in africa.
i've considered that.
selling vacuum cleaners isn't the best preparation you could have.
i just want one true adventure before i die.
that can be arranged.
dad?
who was it?
it's mom.
hi, penelope.
shut up, you ninny!  you were never to come here again-- for any reason whatsoever!
i came for my clothes.
sneaking in the back door.
i rang.  it seemed like the proper door for a servile, worthless organism to use.
your clothes are at the city dump by now.  perhaps you can get a map from the department of sanitation.
i came for paul as well.
if he wants to go.
you took him to the funeral, i hear.
he'd never seen a corpse.  he's seen a dozen now.
a dozen?
it's a big and busy funeral home.
did you like it, dear?
it isn't a matter of liking.  it's a matter of getting used to death-- as a perfectly natural thing. would you mind leaving?  no woman ever walks out on harold ryan, and then comes back--for anything.
unless she has nerve.
more nerve than the doctor, i must admit.  he hasn't been home for two days.  has he suddenly lost interest in sleep and color television--and the violin?
he knows you shattered his violin.
i'm dying to hear of his reaction. the thrill of smashing something isn't in the smashing, but in the owner's reactions.
he cried.
about a broomstick and a cigar box--and the attenuated intestines of an alley cat.
two hundred years old.
he feels awful loss--which was precisely my intention.
he had hoped that someone would be playing it still--two hundred years from now.
hope.
fifty years?
you're making a joke.
i'm interested in long-term expectations.
it's engineered to last about fifteen years.
things.  oh--you silly people and your things.  things, things, things.
you and harold are friends?
he's the most wonderful guy i ever met, penelope.  he's the most complicated guy i ever met.  i can't believe it, but he's going to take me to africa with him.
things.
you feel i've done a dreadful thing--leaving him?
if i were married to him, i sure wouldn't walk out.
never mind the condition of your body and your spirit!  look after your things, your things!
and you, colonel?  let me guess: you don't know.
i dunno.
go live in a safe-deposit box--with your things. looseleaf jesus--i wouldn't want to be married to him.  you know?
what's this?
i wouldn't want to be married to me. we're too crazy.  you know?
in what way, pray tell?
i didn't like that violin thing. that was sad.
tit for tat--as simple as that.
you never played a violin.
you did?
yeah.  i practically forgot.  but after you busted that thing, i got to thinking, "jesus--maybe i'll start the violin again." that didn't just belong to woodly.  that belonged to everybody.  maybe he would have sold it to me, and i could have some fun.  after you busted the violin, boy, and penelope walked out, i thought to myself, "jesus--who could blame her?"
maybe it's time you got out.
me?
you.
okay.  okay.
you're an imbecile.
i know you think that.
everybody thinks that.
anybody who'd drop an atom bomb on a city has to be pretty dumb.
the one direct, decisive, intelligent act of your life!
i don't think so.  it could have been.
if what?
if i hadn't done it.  if i'd said to myself, "screw it.  i'm going to let all those people down there live."
they were enemies.  we were at war.
yeah, jesus--but wars would be a lot better, i think, if guys would say to themselves sometimes, "jesus--i'm not going to do that to the enemy.  that's too much." you could have been the manufacturer of that violin there, even though you don't know how to make a violin, just by not busting it up.  i could have been the father of all those people in nagasaki, and the mother, too, just by not dropping the bomb.  i sent 'em to heaven instead--and i don't think there is one.
goodbye, looseleaf.
so long, you guys.
what will you do, colonel?
i dunno.  marry the first whore who's nice to me, i guess.  get a job in a motorcycle shop.  so long, you guys.
who's going to fly our helicopter now?
what?
we got to get another pilot.
for what?
for africa.
do you really think that harold ryan would go to africa with a vacuum cleaner salesman?
you invited me.
to make an ass of yourself.
what went wrong?
we're ahead of schedule, that's all. you're finding out here what you would have found out in africa-- that you are a rabbit, born to be eaten alive.
gee whiz--
it would have been fun to see you drop your rifle and run the first time an elephant charged us.
i wouldn't drop my gun.
you're hollow, like a woman.
i'm smarter than looseleaf.
he can shoot!  he can hold his ground!  he can attack!  you're in your proper profession right now-- sucking up dirt for frumpish housewives, closet drunkards every one.
how do you know how i'd act in africa?
look how you're acting now!  this is a moment of truth, and you're almost crying.  slug me!
you're my buddy.
out!  out!
no matter what you say to me, i still think you're the greatest guy i ever knew.
out!
you--you aren't going to have any friends left, if you don't watch out.
thank god!
well--what have we here?  a family.
almost a christmas scene.
goodbye, goodbye, goodbye.
just one favor.
money?  there's plenty of that. mildred got the brewery.  you'll probably get the baseball team.
i want you to tell me that you loved me once.
testimonials of that sort are--are beyond my range.  i don't do them well.  that's a failing, i know.
i see.
see how you've upset him.  he was so merry and hale before you came home.
how unhappy he's going to be--alone in his room.
he'll play with his rifle, i expect. that will cheer him up.
rifle?
i bought him a twenty-two yesterday--on the way home from hamburger heaven.  and where is the good doctor?  have you two feathered a love nest somewhere?
he's in east st. louis with his mother--visiting an aunt.
last i heard, his mother was going alone.
he's afraid of you, harold.  he knew you'd want to fight him.  he doesn't know anything about fighting.  he hates pain.
and you, a supposedly healthy woman, do not detest him for his cowardice?
it seems highly intelligent to me.
what kind of a country has this become?  the men wear beads and refuse to fight--and the woman adore them.  america's days of greatness are over.  it has drunk the blue soup.
blue soup?
an indian narcotic we were forced to drink.  it put us in a haze--a honey-colored haze which was lavender around the edge.  we laughed, we sang, we snoozed.  when a bird called, we answered back. every living thing was our brother or our sister, we thought. looseleaf stepped on a cockroach six inches long, and we cried.  we had a funeral that went on for five days--for the cockroach!  i sang "oh promise me." can you imagine? where the hell did i ever learn the words to "oh promise me"?  looseleaf delivered a lecture on maintenance procedures for the hydraulic system of a b-36.  all the time we were drinking more blue soup, more blue soup!  never stopped drinking blue soup.  blue soup all the time. we'd go out after food in that honey-colored haze, and everything that was edible had a penumbra of lavender.
sounds quite beautiful.
beautiful, you say?  it wasn't life, it wasn't death--it wasn't anything!  beautiful?  seven years gone--  like that, like that!  seven years of silliness and random dreams! seven years of nothingness, when there could have been so much!
like what?
action!  interaction!  give and take!  challenge and response!
mom?
what's this?
what's this?
nothing.
that's a rifle you have?
no.
of course it is.  is it loaded?
no.
open the bolt!
that's a cartridge, if i'm not mistaken.  gunpowder, bullet, cartridge case, and fulminate of mercury percussion cap--all set to go. paul i was cleaning it.
pick up that cartridge and slip it back into the chamber--where it belongs.
gee whiz, dad--
welcome to manhood, you little sparrowfart!  load that gun!
dad--
too late!  it's man to man now. protecting your mother from me, are you?  protect her!`
he's a child!
with an iron penis three feet long. load it, boy.
you're begging him to kill you?
if he thinks he's man enough.
that's really what you want.  you become furious when people won't make you dead.
i'm teaching my son to be a man.
so he can kill you.  you hate your own life that much.  you beg for a hero to kill you.
i plan to live one hundred years!
no you don't.
if that's the case--what's to prevent my killing myself?
honor, i suppose.
what a handsome word.
but it's all balled up in your head with death.  the highest honor is death.  when you talk of these animals, one by one, you don't just talk of killing them.  you honored them with death.  harold--it is not honor to be killed.
if you've lived a good life, fought well--
it's still just death, the absence of life--no honor at all.  it's worse than the blue soup by far-- that nothingness.  to you, though, it's the honor that crowns them all.
may i continue with the rearing of my son?  load that gun!
then speak, by god!  can you fight with words?
i don't want to fight you.
get mad!  tell me you don't like the way i treat your mother!  tell me you wish i'd never come home!
it's your house, dad.
everybody simply evaporates!  there are guest issues to be fought out here--or to be argued, at least. the enemy, the champion of all who oppose me, is in east st. louis with his mother and his aunt!  i have so far done battle with a woman and a child and a violin.
the old heroes are going to have to get used to this, harold--the new heroes who refuse to fight. they're trying to save the planet. there's no time for battle, no point to battle anymore.
i feel mocked, insulted, with no sort of satisfaction in prospect. we don't have to fight with steel. i can fight with words.  i'm not an inarticulate ape, you know, who grabs a rock for want of a vocabulary.  call him up in east st. louis, penelope.  tell him to come here.
no.
no.
and my son, the only son of harold ryan--he's going to grow up to be a vanisher, too?
i don't know.  i hope he never hunts.  i hope he never kills another human being.
you hope this, too?
i don't know what i hope.  but i don't think you care what i hope, anyway.  you don't know me.  you don't know her, either.  i don't think you know anybody.  you talk to everybody just the same.
i'm talking to you gently now.
yeah.  but it's going to get loud again.
get out of here.
it's really that bad?
you fool, you fool.
oh--look at the poor, crucified violin, would you?
it died for your sins.
this little corpse is intended as a lesson?
there's a certain amount of information there.
lest we forget how cruel you are.
i'm going to call the police.
don't!
this is man to man.
it's healer to killer.  is that the same thing?
what brought you back?
the same hairy, humorless old gods who move you from hither to yon. "honor, " if you like.
he's a champion after all. woodly of the corpses and cripples you create for our instruction--when all we can learn from them is this: how cruel you are.
this is suicide.  go get the police.
stop!
there's going to be no bloodshed here.  i know how he'll fight--the only way he can fight: with words. the truth.  am i correct?
yes.
i can defeat him with anything from flavored toothpicks to siege howitzers.  but he got it into his little head that he could come here and demolish harold ryan with words. the truth!  correct?
correct.
what an hallucination!  oh, dear, dear, dear, dear.  oh dearie me.
you haven't heard me yet.
you intend to crack my eardrums with your voice?  will i bleed from my every orifice?  who will clean up this awful mess?
we'll find out now, won't we?
no, we won't.  no matter how it begins, it will end in death. because it always does.  isn't that always how it ends, harold--in death?
there has to be a threat of some sort, nobility of some sort, glamour of some sort, sport of some sort.  these elements are lacking.
you're a filthy, rotten bastard.
oooooo.  that hurt.
you're old--so old.
now who's being cruel?
a living fossil!  like the cockroaches and the horseshoe crabs.
we do survive, don't we?  you're going to have to apologize, of course, for calling me a bastard. that's a matter of form--not allowing you or anybody to call me a bastard.  no rush about that. just remember to apologize sometime soon.
you're a son of a bitch.
yes--well--uh--that's another one of those statements which more or less automatically requires an apology.  whenever you feel like it. it's sort of like turning off an alarm clock that's ringing loudly. your apology turns off the alarm.
i'm turning off the alarm.  i'm turning off everything.
ah!  the lady is armed.
i want you to get out of here, norbert.  harold--i want you to sit down in the chair, and not lift a finger until norbert is gone.
whoever has the gun, you see, gets to tell everybody else exactly what to do.  it's the american way.
i mean it!
then you'd better fix your bayonet, because there aren't any bullets in the gun.
where's the bullet?
help your mother find the bullet.
there it is.  give it to me.
how do i load?
load it for her.
all right!  am i exceedingly dangerous now?
the national safety council would be appalled.
then listen to me.  you're both disgusting--with your pride, your pride.  i hate you for coming here--like a federal marshal in a western film. i loved you when you stayed away. but here you are now--high noon in the superbowl!  you fool, you fool.
everything's going to be beautiful.
you fake!  you're no better than the dumbest general in the pentagon.  you're not going to beat harold. you're not going to beat anybody. you're not going to stay here, either--yammering and taunting until you're most gloriously killed. go home!
she's right, norbert--go home. woodly i haven't said all i have to say.
out!
i haven't told you, harold, how comical i think you are.
comical?
give me that goddamn thing!  now get out of here, or i might kill you.  who knows?
you've killed women?
seventeen of them--eleven by accident.  march!  move!  you, too!
norbert--you come, too.  let him go, harold.  let him go.
of course he can go--if he'll just go down on his hands and knees for a moment--and promise me that he does not find me comical in the least degree.
do it, norbert.
hands and knees, you say?
and terror, if you don't mind.
do it!
goodbye.
you're in one hell of a jam.  you realize that?
i'm high as a kite.
glands.  you're supposed to be happy when you die.  call me comical again.
you're a clown.  you're a clown who kills--but you're a clown.
i love you!  have a cigar!
evolution has made you a clown-- with a cigar.  simple butchers like you are obsolete!
i'm to be left behind--in primordial ooze?
if you're at home in the ooze, and nowhere else.
this is going to become very physical.  are you prepared for that?
you're not such a creature of the ooze that you'd hurt an unarmed man.
i'm an honorable clown?
king arthur.
you hope.
in any event, i will not beg for mercy.
no quarter asked.  no quarter given.
don't you laugh even inwardly at the heroic balderdash you spew?
cut me open.  find out.
i've struck my blow.
with spittle?
i've poisoned you. harold  lucretia borgia?  something i drank or touched?  you refused a cigar.  that's it! potassium cyanide in the humidor! treacherous lover of peace!
i put a poisoned thought in your head.  even now that poison is seeping into every lobe of your mind.  it's saying, "obsolete, obsolete, obsolete," and, "clown, clown, clown."
poison.
you have a very good mind, or i wouldn't have come back.  that mind is now asking itself, cleverly and fairly, "is harold ryan really a clown?" and the answer is, "yes."
i--i really must congratulate you. something is happening in there.
you can never take yourself seriously again!  look at all the creatures you've protected us from! did you shoot them on the elevator, as they were on their way up here to eat us alive?
no. woodly the magic root you gave me--i had it analyzed.  it was discovered by a harvard botanist in 1893!  he explored your famous jungle for five years, armed with nothing but kindness, a talent for languages, and a pocketknife.
i see.
you aren't going to hurt me.  you aren't going to hurt anybody any more.  any violent gesture will seem ridiculous--to yourself!
don quixote.
my violin is avenged!
something seems to have happened to my self-respect.
and the hell with it.  it was so tragically irrelevant, so preposterously misinformed.
the new hero is you.
i hate crowds, and i have no charisma--
you're too modest.
but the new hero will be a man of science and of peace--like me. he'll disarm you, of course.  no more guns, no more guns.
was i ever of use?
never.  for when you began to kill for the fun of it, you became the chief source of agony of mankind.
here.  finish the job.
i'm utterly satisfied.
you're making a mistake.  obsolete old carnivores like me are most dangerous when wounded.  you've wounded me.
more clowning!  don't you see?
we never quit fighting until we're dead.
you'd be killing a friend.  don't you know how much i like you?
i'm going to shoot you now.
no!
my self-respect is gone--and my soldier's honor with it.  it is now very easy for me to shoot an unarmed man.
new dignity can be yours--as a merciful man.  you can change!
like the saber-toothed tiger.
oh god--you're really going to kill me. harold it won't hurt as much as the sting of a bumblebee.  heaven is very much like paradise, they say. you'll like it there.
can i beg for mercy--on my knees?
if you want to be found that way.
what is this thing that kills me?
man, as man was meant to be--a vengeful ape who murders.  he will soon be extinct.  it's time, it's time.
don't shoot.
i've enjoyed being man.
no.  no.
get up.
no.
have it your way.  we'd both be better off dead now.
can't do it.
thank god. harold crawl home.
thank you--for my life.
it's trash now, like mine.
new lives begin!
somewhere in this city.  not here, not here.  tell penelope i loved her--in my clownish way.  and paul. tell him to be a healer, by all means.
what are you going to do?
use the sanitary facilities, if i may.
leave the rifle here.
i'll put it in paul's room, where it belongs.
give me your word of honor that that's all you're going to do.
for what it's worth now, harold ryan, the clown, gives his sacred word.
