you look a like you could use a friend.  you know, I will never forget my first day at camp. boy, i was so nervous that i...
hey--whaddya say, we need another muskrat to join our sunshine circle. scurry up!  is not fun great!
college was entertaining, wichita, but after 40 days and 40 nights of this, i really think we are going to get to know each...
ooh look, time to confiscate my first water balloon...
go stand by the flagpole.
sorry about all that...i'm your cit-- jasper.
when all else fails, jasper--gum. even now in these troubled times,                           ] every child's drug of choice.                               ]
well, the first week of camp has swhooshed on by and i thought this a perfect time to finally pow-wow. i think we should discuss--
we need more ritalin. can not we just grind it into the munchkins' food?
who wants to go tell the anti-christ to take a "time-out?"
talia, just because you happen to be jewish, does not mean you can make fun of someone desecrating the lord's body...
yes, it does.
okay, okay, just do not everyone talk at once...first of all, little jason has a learning disability...
yeah, his lack of intelligence. sorry, wendy, but as learning disabilities go, stupidity is often overlooked.
next to "boring," "sucks" is the most painfully overused word in the current english language. i thought if i could reverse the meaning of "sucks" so it means something positive, i do not know...it would be vaguely revolutionary. it is kind of my social experiment for the summer. "suck" is historically a nice word-- sno-cones, your mother's...
] so that's one of the pearls from                            ] your mysterious journal?  and all this                      ] time i thought you were restructuring                       ] the world's economy.                                        ]
what in the hell did you do that for?
i-unno...don't worry, i had everything on the hand memorized.
that is not what i was worried about.
are we allowed to start hating "wendy" yet..."gee wichita, i guess mosquitoes have always liked me."
you and wichita go to school together, right?  have you two ever...
that would be a no.
that wants to be a yes.
i do not know what I am doing. i know he only likes me as a friend. he is just so...everything--i know he only likes me as a--but it came up that he used to be a camp counselor and i used to be a camp counselor...
get him alone for the summer. out in the wilderness. underneath the stars...
am-ber!  uh...don't do that.
"or you are going to get it?" wow, first week of camp. promise me you will not try moving so fast with wichita.
do not worry, i have 33 more days to find just the perfect moment to tell him how i...
...and it hurts too much to keep these feelings inside me any longer...
talia, you know how important our friendship is to me and i would never do anything to...
"...how important our friendship..." not that old--oh god, what have i done?
talia, you are a wonderful person...
stop, stop, what was i thinking...out in the wilderness.  under the stars. I have ruined every--
i just never thought of you in that...
i gotta...i gotta go do a "bunk check." or some fucking thing.
pamela anderson, kate moss, halle berry, and fiona apple, all naked in one room. you can do anything you want to them, except one of them has full-blown aids, and you do not know who. and you are not allowed to use a condom.
call me conservative, but I would rub my penis on the faces of all the ladies before bestowing the final honors to the divine ms. berry's lovely visage.
yowza--only a virgin could answer that fast.
I am not really a--does it count if...
do you realize if the women of america would have just heard what you said...
they would not be a bit surprised..
man asswipe, you made my enormous cock fall off...
i do not know about you dickweeds, but i got to go take a nice, long juicy dump.
you are to be executed at dawn anyway.  might as well commit the crime. go to her, wichita...
you are all making me blush...
wendy, do not be afraid to get a little stupid and contagious. the kids do not understand that this is our summer, too. we should not have to put our lives on hold to be their butlers.
i just do not know about this whole actual sexuality thing--how do you go from being friends with a guy to wanting to put the thing he uses to go to the bathroom with in your mouth?
eavesdropping, eh?  hear anything good?
man, it is not like i do not know about women. i had this babysitter...
hey.
hey--that coffee?  you are a goddess. gimme, gimme...so what you gals talk about?
oh you know, bosnia, the importance of the right to vote...
yeah, we talked about sex, too. oberon must be sweating in his sleep.
we had fun. i even got along with talia-- for about three minutes. i do not know why she hates me so much...
yes you do.
yeah. i guess i do.
talia's a rock. she will be fine...
ann taylor would have paid a lot more, but i would not trade this experience for the world. sometimes the first time you understand anything is when you have to explain it to someone younger-- you think I am a big dork do not you?
i think your passion is terrific.
i think your condescension is even better.
we have more in common than you think, wendy dear. i loved summer camp when i was young and i love it now. it is important. between school, family, friends, pot, playstations, basic cable, and the goddamn internet, it is possible to go your whole life without listening to your soul. out here, in nature, away from the shit, surrounded by reminders of who i once was...i get recharged. now who is the dork?
gosh, this is really a great conversation--i can not believe i said that out loud.
you know, this reminds me of the time we were talking about something and then just started kissing...
do you really not believe in god?
it is okay, there is a lot of things i do not believe in...
what else do not you believe in?
talking while kissing.
so this is it, anybody you do not agree about everything with can not be your friend...
iunno.
"iunno." I am really beginning to hate that word of yours. I am sorry for sounding hostile, but I am not sorry for...
do not be. do not be sorry for your thoughts. they make me...react. i do not know...all i know is that i can not go through another summer where i almost did something.
what are you doing?
nothing.
you know you just do this for shock value. it is not shocking.
when did pretending to be bored become a sign of superiority?  are you mad at me for giving the cabin new haircuts or are you just still miserably pining for wichita's lightning rod?
geez, what time is it?  i have to go feed big chief oberon...you're right, i miss him. wichita, that is.  i really want to be with him, but i can not bring myself to--are you a lesbian or are you...
i did not realize i had to declare a major.
why do you even like me?
you remind me of me when i was...i guess i was never like you. so cute. so questioning.
I am not a nai-ive little...
uh-huh.
no, they are not from wendy.
your secret admirer?
not so secret anymore. do not look all at once...behind the pine...dorothy from cabin seven.
i guess it was too much to ask that it would somebody older...and maler. like you.
hey, i thought i was not your type.
wichita--you're everybody's type. but seriously, do not worry about it. i get my occasional crushes.
hey, it is not a crush anymore if                            ] you actually say it to the person                           ] you supposedly have the...                                  ] ] jasper                                             ] thought I would get points for a post-                          ] modern approach to coming on to you.                        ]
goodnight, jasper.
goodnight.
that really sucked, eric, what you did, asking him that...
oh thanks, it was nothing...
you know, i think i left something by the lake. could you check it out-- you will know it when you see it...
sure, wichita. whatever you say...
when were you in niagara falls?
about ten years a--why...don't look at these...come on...stop.
believe me, i wish i knew less.  oh, if you were not such a pig...
i can be a good pig. babe. charlotte's web. good pig. watch.
make it seem you have this comfortable, mysterious life and you do not give a shit whether she is a part of it. oh, and bring up india, talia has this obsession...  whoa, donald, play hard to get, not hard to want...let talia know that your goofy act is just something you do for the kids....
it is?  i do not know about this, wichita. am i even right for talia?                         ] what about wendy?  i mean, you and                          ] wendy--how are you and wendy...                             ] ] wichita                                            ] complicated. extremely.                                     ] ] wichita and donald drift closer toward the head-setted wendy,         ] who stands to the side of the searchers like a commandant.            ] ] wendy                                              ] now remember, people, let's keep                            ] away from the mountain. repeat...                           ]                                  ] there you are. could you possibly                           ] do one thing and help keep the                              ] campers away from....                                       ] ] wichita                                            ]                                           ] hey everybody, we are climbing the                           ] mountain!                                                   ]
man, she is losing it...
it is about time. is not fun great?
now what? what did i do this time?
i just wanted to know if you have seen this.
talia, do not go!
wha-at?  what is it?
everything.
whew, that was not a period. that was an exclamation mark. you know, hayley, behind every great woman is a great first menstruation anecdote.
i hope so...
this is...this is...a very special moment...
howdy pouty.
i was pretty confident that i was going to blow it with talia, but i must say, i outdid myself.
she is still pissed at me and took it out on you. we should have taken it slower. it is hard to operate in the woods. much easier in, like a club.  tell the girl you have got to go do something, leave her view, take way too long until she is worried that you are not coming back. just as she starts feeling awful, you come up from behind and touch her neck...
you are the prince of the darkness.
I am in the picture on wendy's wall. niagara falls. family trip. little wendy foreground. me background. what are the odds on that one?
uh, yeah, that's...wow.
i could not tell her...it's, it is too major...jesus, I am starting to believe in god and what is worse i think i like the guy. the lightning bolt was just a test, right?  wendy and i--we're meant to be. I am right, right?  i have to see her...
say hi for me.
i have to get up. still more to do. that boy hates asian people. that girl thinks she gave her mom cancer by dropping a plate on her hand. her daddy touches her. his daddy never touches him. it would have been cooler if I would died.
wendy, I will come back later.                                ] ] wendy                                              ] why does every ten year old know                            ] what they want to be when they grow                         ] up, but then as you actually grow                           ] up, you forget every--the girls are                         ] big on "veterinarian" this year--                           ] i think it could be the "ballerina"                         ] of this century.                                            ]
is not this the time where one of us says something deeply offensive to the other one...we're just so different.
so what?                                                    ]
yeah, why should we let our actual personalities get in the way of us falling in love?
todd was out there blocking the                             ] entrance. you would have been proud                         ] of me...my suit of armor is starting to come off. not all of it, but enough to walk around...
and you will be happy to know I am going to drop my snow white and the seventy dwarves act...not all of it, but...
i was thinking...if we could mesh my way of thinking with your way                            ] of thinking, we could really do some                        ] great counseling. it is all about                            ] the evolution of the species, we                            ] can improve...                                              ]
i love you. do not say i love you, too. i hate that--"love you, too."
i know what you mean. but it does not put me in too great a position...
do not worry, you...
god, you are beautiful.
thank you, my love.                                         ]
fuck off.
i should leave. you probably need your rest.
probably.
freeze!  you are busted!
what are you gonna do about it?
ooh, I will think of something, missy. a telescope?  where you going?  i do not want to know.
thanks, talia...why are you so nice to me?
why am i so--that's new--the way i figure it is if i can get through to just one camper...then I am a pretty incompetent counselor.                                           ] do not get caught. I will deny                                 ] everything.                                                 ]
I am still on anti-biotics, i really                         ] should not be caffeining...gosh, I have had a lot of daydreams about losing my virginity. never one like this. for one, i was not a mutant. secondly, i...what are you thinking?
I am just thinking I am glad i broke up with everyone i ever went out with.  the swelling is going to go down, right?
are you allowed to do it more than once a night?
it is been known to happen.
sadist!  i can not believe i thought you could change--this is your idea of discipline?  you are a monster.  that kid is going to be traumatized for...
about three days. I am a monster. he is a monster. actually, we are both just guys. i do not expect you to understand that i...
no really, keep talking, i ree-ally want to hear what you have to say, you are just so eloquent...
why are you...don't stop...why?
"why?" if i asked questions like that, I would never make love-"love"-- damn you, damn this, damnit!
excuse me, counselor wendy, i need assistance in finding that important...thingie in the storage room.
oh my gosh, why did not you say something earlier...
do you really think we are fooling anyone?
do you really think i care?
she got a little poison oak and started screaming for assisted suicide.
be nice. her father died in that twa flight the government shot down...you know I am going to be in the city next week. my mom says it is okay that i stay overnight at your dorm...it'll be nice to see you in                          ] a different shirt.                                          ] ] wichita                                            ] oh, i did not tell you. i wear this                          ] all year round. the chicks dig it...                        ]
excuse me, wichita, i can not seem to reach the top shelf in the storage room. could you...
not now, wendy.
this is not about "doing it." i just think we need to talk some things out privately before...
you are a little harsh on todd. you are a little harsh on everybody. i know                         ] you like to think of yourself as                            ] the anti-oberon, but man, you are                            ] getting just as spooky. what was                            ] that speech in there?  does camp really                     ] have to be a revolutionary act?  can not                      ] the children, at their own pace,                            ] discover...                                                 ] ] wichita                                            ] yeah, okay, i was a little out of                           ] hand, but come on, you got to give me todd.  do not get me wrong, I have learned to love the little piggy, but todd is the most invincible loser I have ever come across. his greatest talent is lack thereof. no matter                           ] what the category, bet against him                          ] and win.                                                    ]
stop, stop...i'm willing to put my mouth where my mouth is...i throw one overhand pass and todd catches it-- dramatic pause--you let me go down on you...
hello?!  what is in it for me?
thanks a lot. seriously though, by winning this bet, you will prove to the world that you indeed know everything.  is not the rush of gambling on your cynical philosophy of life enough?
you will be hiding behind a tree.
the oak where jocelyn sprained her ankle.
exactly. when we get into the clearing, I will turn on my sexy moves. wichita will go for it or he will shoot me down.  either way, you come away with knowledge.
mine!
you guys have been so colossal...
do not forget, when you get home, o.b.'s. they are created by a female gynecologist.
yeah, an insane female gynecologist! hayley, do not listen to her.
they are the easiest to shoplift, okay?  no woman should have to pay for something forced-on-her-without- choice by nature...what's the matter, hayley?                                                     ] ] as they playfully bicker, hayley gazes, with a tinge of               ] longing, to vanessa and the bombshellettes parked at a picnic         ] table, flirting up a storm with their cute-boy-counterparts.          ] ] talia                                              ] what do you think--it's the last                            ] night of camp dance.                                        ] ] pixel                                              ] what are you saying?  she does not need                      ] some boy to validate her summer                             ] experience!                                                 ] ] talia                                              ] oh of course she does, you dumb                             ] bitch.  just because we are feminist,                        ] does not mean we have to be totally                          ] abnormal.                                                   ] ] pixel                                              ] hayley back me up...                                        ] ] hayley                                             ]                                              ] one dance would be kind of                                  ] nice...don't hate me, pixel.                                ] ] pixel                                              ]                                               ] i don't. now go away, talia and i                           ] need to huddle...                                           ]
ah, our last night at camp...i always knew it would be something special.
what do you want me to say?
something more interesting than that...how could you?  how could--!
stop!  stop it, this afternoon was not what you thought...i overheard you and pixel, at the side of the mess hall, your idea about the "test"...do you believe me?
iunno.  of course i believe you. it is so you...i did not think it was possible                        ] for you to make me feel worse,                              ] but...you're saying you deliberately                        ] destroyed us!  i do not even get i'm-                        ] sorry-it-was-the-heat-of-the-                               ] moment...                                                   ] ] wichita                                            ] i know, i'm...i'm evil.                                     ] ] wendy                                              ] oh that is right, baby, you are so                            ] "evil." you're, you are so "dark"...                         ] ] wichita                                            ] we should get back.                                         ] ] wendy                                              ] you are not evil or dark...you're                            ] just scared.                                                ]
shut the fuck--!
it is funny, when i first met you i thought you were such a weirdo...i still think you are a nut, but you are my nut.
yeah...are we going to do it or what? i still have not packed.
why are you being so grouchy--this is an important night for us...
adam. dollface. we had a physical relationship that served a purpose and now...
but, but that was before we started sharing stuff. before i told you how i cried when peepers died. i never told anyone that before.
and this peepers was your...dog?  if it makes you feel better, i probably was not paying attention.
that does not make me feel better! why are you being like this?
do not raise your voice at--i gave you the ultimate male fantasy--sex, nothing on the side. do not pretend we shared anything other than fluids.
stop it, stop it, you satanic whore!
you think you are so...but you are just...
that is it, adam, pretend it is one of those arcade things, the tighter you squeeze, the more of a man you are...ooh, that is it.
have you ever thought of instead                            ] of making children more equipped                            ] for reality, we should make reality                         ] more equipped for children?                                 ]
no. fuck no. if you met yourself as a child, would you hug her and say everything's going to be okay...
yes!  god yes!  i would tell her that i love her!  to not let anyone take away her dreams..!
you should grab her and shake her                           ] and tell her it is a goddamn war out                         ] there.  idiots and assholes and                             ] sadists that must be defeated. tell                         ] them her the truth!                                         ] ] wendy                                              ] the truth is a lie!  yes, television                        ] is rotting our brains!  yes, people                         ] kill people easier than ever!  does                         ] that mean we give up!  i think every                        ] child is capable of being talented,                         ] happy, and great. I am probably wrong,                       ] but you know something, it is good                           ] to be wrong.                                                ] ] wichita                                            ]                                     ] you might be right...wendy, you are                          ] fantastic. i can not stop adoring                             ] you...                                                      ]                                         ] what i thought was lust, was only                           ] love...you think I am scared, scared                         ] of love...love conquers all...maybe                         ] i do not want to be conquered. "share                        ] my life"--i barely got enough for                           ] myself...but we were in the picture                         ] together...the picture....                                  ] ] wendy                                              ] what are you talking about?  what                           ] picture...                                                  ] ] wichita just forget--you did not bring me out here to help me change. you brought me out here to punish me.
nobody really changes at summer camp. they merely find out who they are and become it more than ever.  you can not be helped, wichita. I am not sure you can be punished, either. but let's find out...
how do you mean?                                            ]
two billion years of evolution and                          ] you are what we have come up with--                            ] "wichita"--the hot, cool, tell-it-                          ] like-it-is counselor with a dark                            ] side.                                                       ]
what are you doing, wendy?  what is in that cup?
"wichita"--the guy every boy wants                          ] to be and every girl wants to hold.                         ] you are the love of my life and the                          ] end of the world. cheers.                                   ]
I am sorry. it just...it seems silly. like kissing a girl.
clever observation. go back to wichita.  oh that is right, you can't.
...sorry...
this is not the way it was supposed to-- i was going to start writing a children's book using input from all-- i do not even like smoking!
one day they will find a cure for aids. they will never find one for sex. it is kind of funny, most movies and stories with a bunch of camp counselors has some serial psycho in the woods with a chainsaw who systematically butchers everybody one by one.
yeah. and?
it is just funny...who needs a serial psycho in the woods with a chainsaw when we have ourselves.
there you are!  man, i do not know how to thank...
eric...you can not be like me. you have to be better. I am not the guy you think i am...
of course you are. you do not know what i was like before i met you. you are like the best counselor ever.
I am gay. like you did not know.
andrew. you are not gay; you are ten. you should not even be having thoughts like...
you mean you did not have any gay thoughts when you were my age...
well, uh...promise me you will not do anything until you are 18.
did you wait until you were 18?
I will bet you are glad i waited until the last day to have this conversation.
you have no idea. now run away.
summer would have been a lot less without you. you are a true friend, donald.
was there a night that i got really drunk and declared that i never loved anyone as much as i loved you?
no.
that is good. i would not have wanted to embarrass myself.
