what is your damage, heather? you ruined my...
god, I am so sure. do not blame me, blame heather. she told me to haul your ass into the caf pronto. back me up, heather.
yeah, she really wants to talk to you.
okay, I am going, I am going. jesus...
veronica. finally. got a paper of kurt kelly's. i need you to forge a hot and horny but realistically low-key note in kurt's handwriting and we will slip it into martha dumptruck's lunch tray.
shit, heather. i do not have anything against martha dunnstock.
you do not have anything for her either. come on, it will be very. the note'll give her shower nozzle masturbation material for weeks.
I will think about it.
do not think.
god, are not they fed yet? do they even have thanksgiving in africa?
oh sure, pilgrims, indians, tater tots; it is a real party continent.
sawyer. guess what today is?
ouch....the lunchtime poll. so what is the question?
hey, this question would not be that bizarro thing you were babbling about over the phone last......
shut up, it is. i told dennis if he gave me another topic that was political, I would spew burrito chunks.
sorry veronica.
betty finn. gosh.....
I am really sorry i could not make it to your birthday party last month.
that is okay. your mom said you had a big date. heck, I would probably skip my own birthday party for a date.
do not say that.
oh ronnie, you have to look at what i dug up the other day.
i was talking with someone!
color me impressed. i thought you grew out of betty finn.
if i got that money, I would give it all to the poor. every cent.
you are beautiful.
if you are going to openly be a bitch....
I am sorry, it is just why can not we talk to different kinds of people?
fuck me gently with a chainsaw. do i look like mother theresa? if i did, i probably would not mind talking to the geek squad.
does not it bother you that everyone in the school thinks you are a pirahna?
like i give a shit. they all want me, as a friend or a fuck. I am worshipped at westerburg and I am only a junior.
pretend you are a missionary saving a colony of cootie victims.
whatever. i do not believe this. we are going to a party at remington university tonight and we are brushing up our conversation skills with the scum of the school.
just imagine somebody like your quasi-fat, goody-good friend betty finn doing a crest commercial. no one would buy crest.
do not tell me. crest would be stained with loserness.
yeah, and who wants that on their teeth?
you wanted to become a member of the most powerful clique in the school. if i was not already the head of it, I would want the same thing.
I am sorry? what are you oozing about?
that episode with the note back there was for all of us to enjoy, but you are determined to ruin my day.
we made a girl want to consider suicide. what a scream. what a jest.
come on you jerk. you know you used to have a sense of humor.
ku-urt, let's pa-arty.
ku-urt, i ne-ed an orgasm.
grow up, heather. bulimia's so '86.
color me nauseous.
maybe you should see a doctor.
yeah, maybe.
come on heather. we want another look at today's lunch.
geez, do not listen to them.
yeah, you know holden caulfield in the catcher in the rye would not put up with their bogus nonsense.
well, you better move holden out of the way or he is going to get spewed.
god veronica, drool much? his name's jason dean. he is in my american history.
give me the clipboard.
there are no stupid questions.
if you inherit five million dollars the same day aliens tell the earth they are blowing us up in two days, what would you do?
that is the stupidest question I have ever heard.
who does that new kid think he is with that coat? bo diddley?
veronica is into his act. no doubt.
let's kick his ass.
shit, we are seniors, ram. too old for that crap. let's give him a scare though.
probably just row on out to the middle of a lake. bring along my sax, some tequila, and some bach.
how very.
you going to eat this?
what did your boyfriend say when you told him you were moving to sherwood, ohio?
answer him dick!
hey ram, does not this cafeteria have a no fags allowed rule?
god, they will not expell him. they will just suspend him for a week or something.
he used a real gun. they should throw his ass in jail.
j.d.? you seem pretty amused. i thought you were giving up on high school guys.
never say never.
anyway, i can say never to high school. I have got david.
king david.
maybe when you hit maturity you will understand the diff between a remington university man like david and a westerburg boy like ram "wham-bam- thank-you-maam" sweeney.
no way, no day!
give it up girl!
so tonight's the night. are you two excited?
I am giving veronica her shot. her first remington party. blow it tonight girl and it is keggers with kids all next year.
crap. so who is this brad guy I have been set up with? witty and urbane pre-lawyer or albino accountant?
do not worry. david says he is very so he is very.
take a break veronica, sit down.
all right.
so what was the first week of spring vacation withdrawl like?
i do not know, it was okay, i guess.
hey kid, is not the prom coming up?
i guess.
any contestants worth mentioning?
maybe. there is kind of a dark horse now in the running.
goddamn. will somebody please tell me why i read this spy crap.
because you are an idiot.
oh yeah, that is it.
you two....
great pate, but I am going to have to motor if i want to be ready for the party tonight.
you going to pull a big gulp with that?
no, but if you are nice I will let you buy me a slurpee. you know your 7-11speak pretty well.
I have been moved around all my life; dallas, baton rouge, vegas, sherwood ohio, there is always a 7-11. any town, any time, i can pop a ham and cheese in the microwave and feast on a big wheel. keeps me sane.
really? that thing in the caf today was pretty severe.
the extreme always makes an impression, but you are right, it was severe. did you say a cherry or coke slurpee?
i didn't. cherry.
just a humble perk from my dad's construction company or should i say deconstruction company?
i do not know. should you?
my father seems to enjoy tearing things down more than putting things up. seen the commerical? "bringing every state to a higher state."
time out....jason dean. your pop's fred dean construction. must be rough. moving place to place.
everybody's life's got static. is your life perfect?
sure, I am on my way to a party at remington university.
it is not perfect. i do not really like my friends.
i do not really like your friends either.
it is like they are just people i work with and our job is being popular and shit.
maybe it is time for a vacation.
so, are you a cheerleader?
no, not at all. brad you are pretty enough to be one.
gee, thanks.
it is so great to be able to talk to a girl and not have to ask "what's your major?" i hate that.
ever since phil collins did that mtv anti-drug commercial i refuse everything.
phil collins? are you sure he is not drinking and driving?
jeez, right, then why do not i do drugs?
hey, do not run away now.
how is my little cheerleader? now i know everyone at your high school is not so uptight, come on.
hey really, i do not feel so great.
let's do it on the coats. it will be excellent.
i have a little prepared speech i give when my suitor wants more than I would like to give him.... gee blank, i had a nice....
save the speeches for malcom x. i just wanna get laid.
you do not deserve my fucking speech!
what is your damage? brad says you are being a real cooze.
heather, i feel awful, like I am going to throw up. can we jam, please?
no. hell no.
you stupid cunt!
you goddamn bitch!
you were nothing before you met me! you were playing barbies with betty finn! you were a brownie, you were a bluebird, you were a girl scout cookie! i got you into a remington party! what is my thanks? it is on the hallway carpet. i get paid in puke!
lick it up, baby. lick. it. up.
monday morning, you are history. I will tell everyone about tonight. transfer to washington. transfer to jefferson. no one at westerburg's going to let you play their reindeer games.
dreadful etiquette. i apologize.
s'okay....
i saw the croquet set-up in the back. up for a match?
that was my first game of strip croquet, you know. i thank you.
you are welcome. it is a lot more interesting than just flinging off your clothes and boning away on the neighbor's swing set.
now blah-blah-blah is all i do. i use my grand i.q. to figure out what gloss to wear and how to hit three keggers before curfew. some genius.
heather chandler is one bitch that deserves to die.
killing her will not solve anything.
a well-timed lightning bolt through her window and monday morning, all the other heathers, shit, everybody would be cast fucking adrift.
well then, I will pray for rain.
see the condoms in the grass over there. we killed tonight, veronica. we murdered our baby.
hey, it was good for me too, sparky.
just saying it is not hard to end a life.
there is a big difference between the most popular girl in the school and dead sperm.
i guess i do not know what the hell I am talking about.
i know exactly what the hell you are talking about and you are right, you do not know what the hell you are talking about. let's just grow up, be adults, and die.
good plan.
but before that, I would like to see heather chandler puke her guts out.
trust me. she skips the saturday morning trip to grandma's even when she is not hungover.
then let's just concoct ourselves a little hangover cure that will induce her to spew red, white, and blue.
I am a pine-sol man, myself.
do not be a dick. that stuff'll kill her.
o-kay. we will cook up some soup and put it in a coke. sick, eh? now should it be chicken-noodle or bean-with-bacon?
man veronica, pull the plug on that shit. i say we go with big blue.
what are you doing? you just can not go.....besides, she would never drink anything that looks like that.
okay we will use this. she will not be able to tell what she is drinking.
milk and orange juice. hmmmm. maybe we could cough a phlegm globber in it or something.
yeah, great.
no luck? well, milk and orange juice'll do quite nicely. quite nicely.
chick-en.
you are not funny.
veronica. and jesse james. quelle surprise. hear about veronica's affection for regurgitation?
we both said a lot of things we did not mean, last night.
did we? how the hell'd you get in here?
something tells me you picked up the wrong cup.
no shit, sherlock. i can not believe it. i just killed my best friend.
and your worst enemy.
same difference. oh jesus, I am gonna...
what are we going to tell the cops? "fuck it if she can not take a joke, sarge."
stop kidding around. I am going to have to send my s.a.t. scores to san quentin instead of stanford.
I am just a little freaked, all right?  you got what you wanted, you know.
it is one thing to want somebody out of your life. it is another thing to serve them a wake-up cup of drano.
we did a murder. in ohio, that is a crime. but if this was like a suicide thing.....
like a suicide thing?
adolescence is a period of life fraught with anxiety and confusion.
i can do heather's handwriting as well as my own.
"you might think what I have done is shocking..."
"to me though, suicide is the natural answer to the myriad of problems life has given me."
that is good, but heather would never use the word "myriad."
this is the last thing she will ever write. she will want to cash in on as many fifty-cent words as poss.
she missed "myriad" on a vocab test two weeks ago, all right?
that only proves my point more. the word is a badge for her failures at school.
you are probably right..."people think just because you are beautiful and popular, life is easy and fun. nobody understood i had feelings too."
"i die knowing no one knew the real me."
that is good. have you done this before?
dear veronica, heather was your soulmate.....share.
heather was cool, but cruel. the good looks and bad manners gave her power, but it could not give her happiness.
watch it, heather. you could actually be digesting food.
yeah, where is your urge to purge?
that was seriously warped, veronica.
uh-huh.
mute!
next channel, darling.
oh, i have to hear this.
in my heart, heather's still alive.
what are you talking about? she hated you! you hated her!  what are you smiling at?
heather chandler is more popular than ever now.
yeah. scary stuff.
jason, why do not you ask your little friend to stay for dinner.
my mom's making my favorite meal tonight. spaghetti. lots of oregano.
nice. the last time i saw my mom, she was waving out the window of a library in texas. right, dad?
all right.
so what was the first day after heather's suicide like?
i do not know, it was okay, i guess.
terrible thing. so will we get to meet this dark horse prom contender?
maybe.
goddamn. will somebody please tell me why i smoke these damn things?
because you are an idiot.
oh yeah, that is it.
you two....
greate pate, but I am going to have to motor if i want to be ready for the funeral tomorrow.
veronica. what are you doing tonight?
mourning. maybe watch some t.v. why?
ram asked me out, but he wants to double with kurt and kurt does not have a date.
heather, I have got something going with j.d.
please veronica. put billy the kid on hold tonight, I will never forget it.
we on tonight man?
i still got to talk to heather, dude. weird funeral, huh?
pretty weird.
that pudwapper just stepped on my foot.
let's kick his ass.
cool off, we are seniors.
goddamn geek!
is it sleeping, dude?
i think so, man.
then get over on my side. oh shit, cowtipping is the fucking greatest.
punch it in!
what is this shit?
I am doing a favor for heather. a double date. i tried to tell you at the funeral but you rode off.
so what? do not smile like that, jesus!
our love is god. let's get a slurpee.
i do not know. this thing leaves a bad taste in my mouth.
like last night, veronica?
I am sorry? i do not get it.
you did last night.
i do not get the point of me writing a suicide note when we will just be shooting them with blanks.
get crucial. we will not be using blanks this time.
you can not be serious? hey listen, my bonnie-and-clyde days are over.
do you take german?
french.
these are ich luge bullets. my grandfather snared a shitload of them in w.w. two. they are like tranquilizers only they break the surface of the skin, enough to cause blood, but not any real harm.
so it looks like the person's been shot and killed when they are really just unconscious and bleeding.
first tell me this similarity is not incredible.
incredible similarity.
ram and i died the day we realized we could never reveal our forbidden love to an uncaring and ununderstanding world. the joy we shared in each other's arms was greater than any touchdown. yet we were forced to live the lie of sexist- beer guzzling-jock-asshole.
exquisite, but i do not think ununderstanding is a word.
we do not want to make them out to be too secretly eloquent. why would the germans invent a bullet that does not kill people? i mean it was world war two, not a school play.
they used them on themselves to make it look like they were dead. really quite a brilliant device, but too flamboyant to seriously produce.
neat. let's try it out on j.f.k.
it does not work on small animals!
oh.
uh well hey, let's take a look at the homosexual artifacts i dug up. now, prepare to be a little disappointed.
we have got a playgirl, a candy dish, a joan crawford post card, and lipstick.
you must have had fun.
you know it. oh man, i almost forgot. the one perfecto thing i picked up...
perrier water!
oh come on. lots of people drink perrier. it is come a long way.
this is ohio. if you do not have a brewsky in your hand after dark you might as well be wearing a dress.
oh, you are so smart. how about a little heterosexuality before we go?
sex and drugs and hbo is all i ever need! whoa! can you hear me! hello tokyo! i said sex and drugs and...
shut the fuck up, all right.
lighten up, dude. in those woods is some of the finest pussy in the school and we do not even have to buy it a hamburger and a diet coke. punch it in!
did you miss him completely?
yeah, but do not worry, it was worth it just to see the look on....
do not move! I will get him back!
kurt does not look too good.
remember he is left-handed.
we killed them, did not we?
of course.
you believed it because you wanted to believe it. your true feelings were too gross and icky for you to face.
i did not want them dead.
did to.
did not.
did to.
did not.
football season's over, veronica. kurt and ram had nothing to offer the school but date-rapes and a.i.d.s. jokes.
sure. can we make an ice run before the funeral?
your son's dead and you love him.
how do you think mr. kelly would react to a son with a limp wrist with a pulse?
how was the funeral?
superb.
heather chandler, kurt kelly, and rupert "ram" sweeney all had good looks and popularity, but there is one thing they did not have: values, ambition, and hope.
that is three things.
it rained everyday of my maui vacation, but hey, i did not kill myself. I am whitney james, commentary.
can not you see this is a special moment?
i was just making it more special.
do not worry. we will work something out.
yes. yes. we will work something out. i swear to god. will not we j.d.?...j.d.?
you shoulda stuck around, jerk. ms. fleming wants to redefine the high school experience.
she wants to ignore the high school experience. our way's better. we scare people into not being assholes.
do not even talk about that stuff!
you can be so immature!
you kids are making too much damn noise.
let's just...settle down. ms. fleming has given us a chance to atone for...
our sins? what sins? if you put a nazi in a concentration camp, does that make you a nazi?
maybe.
we are breaking up. i am out!
wha-at? come on, there is another t.v. in the kitchen. you know you used to have a sense of humor.
you are getting too cool for me, j.d. i do not know how to talk to you.
our relationship's moving fast, i know, but i have real, real respect for you.
I am going to make this ms. pauline thing work. lines of communication between the cliques. you were a phase....
phase my ass! you will be back! I am storming normandy beaches and you are running in place with pauline fonda's airhead peacenik exercise program. have to stay tough! you will be back.
where did you get these?
oh, i just had the nicest chat with ms. dumptruck. got along famously! it is scary how everyone's got a story to tell....would you care to see the canoeing shots?
what do you want from me?
strength. westerburg does not need mushy togetherness, it needs a leader. heather chandler was that leader but...
but she could not handle it.
i think you can. in catcher in the rye holden says his ideal job'd be making sure some kids do not fall off a cliff. he does not realize if you pay too much attention to the kids, you will back off the cliff yourself.
very very. the photographs?
do not worry. I will ask you to do me a favor. you will get the negatives and everything back then.
let me get it clear, veronica. you want yourself a sweet homeboy for this t.v. show so you can show everybody what a loose, martin luther cosby-lovng place westerburg is.
something like that. will you do it?
damn, you are a shrewd one. shrewd.
i just want to show different kinds of people can get together and it does not have to be vietnam. you do not get treated badly here do you?
i do not get treated at all, but hey, do not worry about it. I will do your thing. it will give my mom a smile.
things are going to change, earl.
uh-huh.
guess who?
heather.
i do not believe it. I am winning.
do not get cocky, girl.
i missed you. i know I am not as, as exciting as your other friends.
that is bullshit. just shoot.
ronnie, I am still a virgin.
shoot.
betty, your daydreams are a lot better than my realities, believe me. I am afraid though it is time to get your butt kicked.
ronnie!
hey, you are not settling for the two shots are you? knock me out girl. it is the only way.
it is not my style, okay?
nice guys finish last. i should know.
shit.
so did you call people to tell them how to get to the studio tonight?
i got a confession to make. my name used to be heather, too.
but my name's not...
people just do not take the name heather seriously. they should, should not they?
I am so sorry. i was led to believe there were going to be different kinds of social and psychological types at this gathering.
oh, i was scared of the same thing, heather. the minute you try to deal with the actual teenagers who have contemplated suicide you are stepping into quicksand. quicksand filled with bad complexions, bad grades, bad parents, bad drugs, and all sorts of doody nobody wants to hear let alone bend down to clean up.
the world wants winners, i guess. not people stained with loserness.
stained with loserness. oh, i like it. can i use that. it would be dynamite on interoffice memoranda.
it is all yours, heather. now if you will excuse me, I am going to go throw up.
sure. ciao.
everyone take their places on the stage!  is not this thrilling?!
but ms. fleming, it is just not right.
what, the wine? i realize you are all under 21, but it seemed like such a perfect touch.  could we get some more light up here?
hey veronica, how did that teenage prevention t.v. suicide thing go?
color me educated. i learned high school happiness is for members only, pauline fleming would not know reality if it lived in her uterus, and reality's name's heather james. also, j.d.'s a major creep.
turn that back on!
this condescending junk makes suicide seem like a cool thing to do. hey kids, make your parents and teachers feel like shit! get the respect in death you will never get in life.
everybody cares for youth but nobody cares about joey blow. when that news reporter gets home he will scream at his son for not mowing the lawn in the right pattern.
I am lost. you do not get enough attention, you get too much attention. which is it? where are your shoes?
all we want is to be treated like human beings, not like guinea pigs to be experimented on and not like bunny rabbits to be patronized.
hi everyone, door was open. veronica, you missed it! pauline and whitney james were up there doing there suicide rap when the cops come in and announce that martha dumptruck tried to buy the farm. she gave the ticket girl at the colfax theatre a suicide note then bellyflopped in front of a car.
is she dead?
that is the punchline. she is still alive, in stable condition. another case of a geek trying to imitate the popular people of the school and failing miserably. is that pate?
i said i was sorry.
you are out of control. heather and kurt were a shock, but martha dumptruck, get crucial! she dialed suicide hotlines in her diapers.
you are not funny. ouch!
what. a. martyr. understand; martha could not take the heat so she got out of the kitchen. just think what a better place the world would be if every nimrod followed her cue.
just shut up and turn on the radio. hot probs is on.
oh shit, yeah.
what were you trying to do? sleep?
suicide is a private thing.
you are giving your life away to become a goddamn statistic in u.s. fucking a today. that is got to be the least private thing i can think of.
but what about heather and ram and kurt?
if everyone jumped off a bridge, young lady, would you?
probably....
hey now, if you were happy every day of your life, you would not be a human being, you would be a game show host.
let's knock off early. go to the mall. something lame like that.
sure.
teenage suicide; do not do it!
some teenybopper rag says big fun wants to play a prom. it could be westerburg's if we can get everyone's john hancock.
veronica! color me stoked, girl. I have gotten everyone to sign this petition even the one who think bigfun are tuneless eurofags. people love me!  my god, you have not signed!
people love you but i know you. jennifer forbes told me the petition she signed was to put a jacuzzi in the cafeteria. and doug hylton...
so some people need different kinds of "convincing" than others....  hey, just sign the petition!
do not talk to me like that.
it was j.d.'s idea! he made out the signature sheet and everything. now will you sign it?
no.
jealous much?
heather, why can not you just be a friend? why are you such a megabitch?
because i can be! the same fucking cheek, goddamnit! why are you pulling my dick? do you think, do you really think, if betty finn's fairy godmother made her cool, she would still act nice and hang with her dweebette friends? no way! uh-uh!
catch a movie? miniature golf?
i was thinking more along the lines of slitting heather duke's wrists open and making it look like a suicide.
i could be up for that. I have already started underlining meaningful passages in heather's copy of catcher in the rye, if you know what i mean. so are we on?
it is over, j.d.  over!
i do not get it! you were wrong! i was right! strength, damnit! come back!
get off my bed, you sick psycho! you think you are a rebel! you are not a rebel! you are a sick psycho! do you think you are a rebel? do you think you are a rebel? i wanna know!
"you say tomayto, i say tomahto. let's call the whole thing off...hold it!
look at that. eskimo. one word. i love it. i usually go for whole sentences myself, but hey this is perfecto. eskimo. so mysterious...
wait a....you're not listening! I am not on your side....
you are still not listening! I am not..
nag, nag, nag, nag. nag.
this knife is filthy.
what in the hell do you think I am doing? taking out her tonsils?
i think i know heather a bit better than you, okay? if she was going to slash her wrists, the knife would be absolutely spotless.
tomorrow someone else will move into her place. that person could be me.  ha, there is only one of us who knows heather's handwriting and if you think I am doing another suicide note.
you do not get it, do you? society nods its head at any horror the american teenager can think to bring upon itself. we do not need gloves and does anyone really care about exact handwriting?
if you will excuse me......
no-o!
is this turnout weak or what? i had at least seventy more people at my funeral.
heather? wha...
oh god veronica, my afterlife is s-o-o boring. if i have to sing "kumbaya" one more time...
what are you doing here?!
i made your favorite. spaghetti. lots of oregano.
veronica! j.d. told me you committed suicide last night!
where is he? where is j.d.?
we have to talk.  whether to kill yourself is one of the most important decisions a teenager has to make.
get a job.
i knew that loose was too noose! i mean, noose too loose! goddamn you!
like father, like son. a serious-as- fuck bomb in the boiler room that will set off a pack of thermals upstairs. okay, so let's start by slowly putting the bomb down on the ground.
okay, okay. i knew that. i knew that. put your hands on your head.
you did not say simon says.
it is all over, j.d. help me to stop it.
you want to wipe the slate clean as much as i do. okay, so maybe i am killing everyone in the school because nobody loves me. you have a purpose though! remember? let's face it, the only place different social types can genuinely get along with each other is in heaven.
how do you turn the fucker off?
you are not listening. people are going to look at the ashes of westerburg and say there is a school that self-destructed not because society did not care, but because that school was society. is that deep or what? I will let you put it in your diary, babe. free of charge.
the bomb, asshole!
just push the red button twice. that is what stops it. if that is what you want, babe?
you know what i want, babe?
what?
you really fucked me up, veronica.
i thought i...you..
you have got power, veronica. power i did not think you had. the slate is clean.
veronica, you look like hell.
yeah, i just got back.
what are you doing?
heather, my love, there is a new sheriff in town.
