twenty one. why do we have to do this now kirsty?
shut up and play darling. your turn.
five hundred ninety two thousand seven hundred and four.
uh... eighty two?
eighty four.
you win! okay pull over.
but... i thought...
if what I have heard is true this could be the last time for a long long time. besides we have got a whole seven minutes before the next one. clock's ticking. tick-tock...
what is not wrong? why are you doing this anyway?
i'm... I am doing a very special thing here. and you can not even ... respond?
just concentrate on the task at hand please. listen to me. you should be giving me this lecture.
you have been cheating on me have not you?
yes i had a quickie with the neighbor during your last contraction.
roughly two thirds of married men who cheat start during the eighth month of their wives' first pregnancy.
oh my god. it is coming out.
what?
the baby is coming out! i can feel it! sonofabitch it hurts!! aaagggghhh!!!
oh my god trevor! it hurts!!  oh my god, oh my god. trevor, it is coming out.
this is not happening.
are you a dream too?
still hallucinating as well. hmm...
what just happened to me anyway? it looked like a dream but it felt like reality.
it is the morphine trevor. you are on so much of it, you could be asleep and dreaming even with your eyes wide open.
where is kirsty? where is my wife?
your wife...?
trevor what is the metric probability of you getting any work done at all today?
hey bret. christ, my head feels like a split coconut.
dude there is a track on the carpet between here and the bathroom. it was made by your ass. you have been dragging it all fucking week. what happened to you yesterday?
give me a break. i checked back into the hospital- amongst other things.
hospital? you have not been to the hospital since uh...
since what?
look never mind. just get some numbers going- any numbers at all will due. the hills have eyes remember?
come on speak up, gooding, I am trying to run a business here. i can not have people flipping out in the break room when they should be slaving away at their desks.
sorry i just kind of... spaced for a second there.
get back here, junior bean counter. this is your supervisor speaking.
please, gwen. you're- you are all over me.
how do you think you got this job, cock?  mmm. I am still tingling all over from our little midnight swim.
what is wrong, trev?
nothing, look. gwen i really like you-
and it shows. least it did last night at the quarry. in a big way.
you are giving me a speeding ticket? mr. mario andretti himself?
gwen, my wife's dead.
oh i see. that again. trevor? i realize it must be hard. but christ how long does it take someone to move on?
that was cold...
no, making another woman compete with someone who is been dead eight months. that is cold.
thanks for coming down mr. gooding. has your head healed okay by now?
where is my wife?
okay then. here's the scoop.
what evidence?
for one thing there were no skid marks on that bridge, the tires were all intact, from what we could tell, nothing wrong internally with the vehicle either. like the car had been driven off the bridge intentionally.
it should all in the report. i told you guys everything. she was giving birth in the fucking car. she grabbed the wheel and i lost control.
i did read that, yes.  what hospital were you going to? i mean the lodovico street bridge is not exactly on the way to mercy general.
... knock on my door, I am a total insomniac.
no, thanks I have got a... a date tonight-
-tawny.
whew. you bounce right back do not you?
what do you mean?
last week...
the car accident? any of this ringing a bell?
it is not that kind of date.
hey even if it is more power to ya.  alrighty then. have a good time.
how does feel to be mr. kirsty hughes for a whole year.
in a word? lucrative.
the best business decision if you ever made I will bet.
enjoyable too. the merger never even felt work for one second.
you know what the family lawyer told me one our wedding day?
what?
never to put you in my will.
really? why?
but you had more wisdom than to listen to a false prophet
there is no wisdom, no insight, no plan
and besides, i thought, to hell with it... it is okay if you only married me for my money.
really, why is that?
i only married you for your body.
happy anniversary, mrs. gooding.
for me? trevor! how romantic! come here, you.
good boy.  where is is it?
what?
our little toy. you usually have it up and running by now.
do i really want to know what you are talking about?
what is happening to me? what are you doing?
you came in for your eeg. you fell asleep and well, i took the liberty of...i'm sorry. you looked like a wreck trevor.
well? what do you say trevor? que pasa?
let me see. oh yeah. my head feels like it is going through a meat grinder. I am not sure if I am dreaming or...
that `poor me' attitude does not suit you trevor. listen, i do not mean to sound like pollyanna but things could be worse. there is one good thing about coming so near to the end of ones life. everything is new and exciting, like your seeing it for the first time. you might see things a litlle differently from now on.
your insight is enlightening.
no wisdom, no insight, no plan.
allison? why can not remember what happened to my wife? is it something I am on that's... that is making me forget?
easy there trevor. you need to relax.
no i need to remember. look whatever it is take me off it. i can handle pain. i can not handle not knowing...
you need to get better first trevor. way better.  it is okay to miss somebody. it is okay to still love someone after they are gone. but you have got to quit blaming yourself okay...? okay?
must be nice.
what?
getting paid for doing shit.
the boss will not notice me doing a bad job because I am not. even if the boss thought i was slacking I would know right away.
yeah, how is that?
i have my connections
really? do tell.
gwen.
gwen?
i crap you not. she was all over me yesterday in the break room. and she was a total machine last night too.
you were supposed to have a date with gwen last night? gwen deardon? the supervisor?
serious as a heart attack my friend. i think she literally fucked me brains out.
dreams?
i was going to say dimensions. but i guess technically they are dreams.
you should always listen to your subconscious. it is trying to tell you something about your waking life.
what did you just say?
i said she is been missing for-
no. no you said her body's been missing.
what is the difference?
last time anybody saw this woman she was alive. you seem to certain she is dead.
i saw her drowning inside the car, detective.
you could say that.
zero's a number right?
as in one minus one equals zero yes. where are you going with this?
how many zeros was your wife worth?
hey. can i borrow something?
uh... sure, tawny... what?
you.
tawny? what's- what are you doing?
you!
you okay?
i'm, uh, not sure... feeling kind of weird actually.
really?
I am kinda feeling nuts myself!
I have never said this to a woman before but can not we talk a little bit before grabbing at each other?
god. sometimes you can be such an animal. other times you are the ultimate tease...
wow. that is good. lots of capers, huh?
for starters. it is also got fennel, asparagus, olives, some more of mother nature's aphrodisiacs... back in college, me and my roommates used to call it hard- on stew.
if you ever smelled this coming from our dorm room, you knew one of us was in there getting laid.
you must have been very proud of yourselves...
it is getting hot in here.
tawny i think I am going to be sick.
well now there is a compliment.
these hallucinations I am having. i think they are more like memories coming back to me in a strange way.
well that is not necessarily a bad thing is it?
if they are blocked memories... I am starting to realize the reason why i blocked them out. allison i think i really... screwed everything up.
shh. do not blame yourself trevor. please.
i miss her. i miss my wife.
whoa, i have serious space issues, dude. what do you want?
i... think we need to talk, there is something really strange going on...
hey you are the guy from down the hall.
come on, quit fucking around. listen it is about... what we did together last night.
what?!
look larry i know you never thought too much of me. and i know this all sounds a little fucked up.
a little? try unbelievably.
i swear these guys are like playing mindgames with me. i think they got a hold of my e-mail address at work too.
trevor barring the more outrageous aspects of your claim you are not the only widower the police have questioned when foul play is suspected.
hey ninety five point three percent of all murders are committed by either a spouse, a direct relative or a close friend that is common knowledge. but this was not murder it was an accident-
and as far as hiding a body goes? i find it hard to believe even the dirtiest of cops would keep a victim's remains hidden simply to get someone to confess. it is absolutely preposterous. now I am not saying i do not believe you, i'm....ambiguous. there is quite alot of money behind all this.
how much do i stand to inherit if kirsty is presumed dead?
what happens if I am convicted of kirsty's murder?
well they would have to prove it in a court of law for one thing-
please larry. pretend you like me and humor me.
seeing you were her sole benefactor, and I am the executive of the will, kirsty's entire estate would have to be donated to the city.
hello? city? cops? it is a fucking conspiracy!
pardon my glibness trevor but you sound like a raving lunatic. the next time you seek counsel it should be of the psychiatric type. you are obviously on the verge of some nervous collapse.
thanks for your concern larry. and fuck you too.
well trevor? what have you got to say for yourself? que pasa?
allison we have got to talk about this medication you have got me on.
I am all over it.
you are one tough cookie, trevor gooding. you keep coming back to your corner for a quick fix up then go right back out into the ring for another round.
some call it resilience. others, stupidity.
of course, yes.
the way you just looked at me...
i know, my bedside manner's horrendous.
so, I am done. thats it for today?
all finished.
hint. it is not a geographical location.
I am stumped.
it is inside a moving car.
bull...
I have got numbers to back me up. over the course of one year more americans die in car accidents than did during the entire span of world war ii.
okay so... what is the safest place?
millions of people around the world get on busses every day. when was the last time you heard of anybody anywhere dying on a public transit bus?
okay mr. statistics I have got one for you. what is the most common cause of death for adults over the age of eighteen?
please. heart attack. that was easy street.
second most common?
skin cancer.
eighty third most common.
pitbull attacks.
you just made that up.
we startred off to be. she was, i guess i was. i just sort of....butchered up the relationship somehow.  bad choice of words.
i understand, i think. other women?
yeah. it is like i was a different guy then i am today. i can not remember that guy. i see these women, they think I am someone else, and I am not that guy anymore. I am not sure who kristy knew.
you were unfaithful, it sounds like your confessing.
i did more then that.
lucky for us these chairs happened to be here.
oh i knew about the chairs already. this is where the emphysema patients come to sneak cigarettes.
do not tell me. kirsty used to smoke?
no. she just would have loved it up here... allison when i was under... did i ever talk?
sure plenty of times.
well?
trevor if someone is talking from a sleep state they are obviously dreaming. so practically everything say is going to sound strange.
did i ever talk about the accident?
no.
did i ever talk about kirsty?
no. but at one point you did repeat something though. a phrase. you must have been having this recurring dream, you just kept saying this one thing over and over
what was it?
sorry.
if it makes you feel better that took every ounce of self control i had. trevor, i never date patients.
i understand... i won't-
no you do not understand. that is why I have been fighting to get you better. so you would not be a patient anymore.
why did not you tell me sooner? i would have switched doctors!
just get better okay?
sorry I am in your seat are not i?
no please make yourself at home.
i thought you loved games.
I will just stay out of this conversation until you come out and tell me why you have disrupted me at work.
you and your wife were playing a game shortly before you got into that car accident were not you?
where is she? where is my wife?
sorry to take up your time like that trevor. do not work too hard. oh, before i forget. i talked your neighbor out of pressing charges.
what?
the whackjob in the black lipstick who lives down the hall? she wanted you arrested for harassment. i told her to chill out and smoke a joint. I would look the other way as long as she did you know?
thanks.
we are all here for you trevor.
hey if you are not doing anything I would like to buy you a beer after work. be just like old times.
what is the occasion?
i quit. today's my last day.
I have got a better offer. more time off. a sort of career shift, more in the engineering line of work.
how much time off?
as much as he feels like. its a much more pleasurable line of work.
so you are just packing it up just like that?
almost that fast. i got a few loose ends to tie up first. came into a shitload of money recently. I have always wanted to go to take a trip. we are just going to walk into the airport and decide right then and there.
yeah? you and who else?
someone special.
trevor your body has been completely healed. all the nerve endings have repaired themselves. if there is any pain in your head it's... in your head.
jeez it is getting awful crowded in there.
my teacher told me once there is a puncture point on your body that can lock your soul within it, even after you are dead. so that when you die you are trapped inside your body, watching it corrode for all eternity.
look, whatever your marharagi, told you, forget. you have got to get this fuckin pain to stop.
it was an analogy. your soul is locked up inside you. you need to free it trevor. you have blocked it from the healing process. that is what we need to do now. heal your soul. and to do that i you have to give in utterly and without any hesitation or doubt. do you know what i mean by giving in? it is about trust. do you trust me implicitly?
i do not even know what is real and what is not how can i trust anyone?
you can trust me. your wife is dead and you need to move past that. and the only way to move past something completely is to go straight through it, not around it. surrender yourself to your wife's death. let it chew you up and spit you back out on the other side. it is the only way you can become whole again.
are you ready?
i surrender...
wait... what the hell is this...
surrender yourself... surrender yourself...
kirsty... kirsty?
it is okay it was just a nightmare that is all.
you are alive...
yes. now go back to sleep. you are driving the rest of the way to gramma's remember?
trevor I have decided we have got to agree on a name before we reach my mother's. this poor kid's going to be starting preschool as student x if we do not make up our minds. so, I have been thinking, what about daisy?
it is perfect.
do you know where you are?
ambulance.
we are just going to take some blood here.
okay how many fingers am i holding up?
two.
can you follow them?
you mean... when the car went off the bridge?
wow you are out of it.
hello I am dr...
ambrose. i know.
have we met?
I have been in here before.
take no offense trevor. i see many patients a day and have an awful memory.
why do not you relax for the next couple of hours? barring any relapses you should be able to go home after that.
where is allison?
who is allison?
allison dormere. your intern.
least let me finish will ya? got one puff left.
i do not work here.
music to my ears.
allison i think i did some very, very bad things. i mean very bad.
trevor things like this happen to people who experience temporary memory loss. everybody does things they regret. you just could not remember doing these things and now you are so it is a shock to the system. I am telling you. you will never get better if you keep blaming yourself for your wife's death.
maybe i was not responsible for the car accident...
hey buddy!
... but I am starting to think i was... i was going to...
hey buddy!
what do you want?!
who the hell are you talking to?
i do not know what I am doing here. I am not even catholic. i just had to tell somebody. it is like, ever since my wife died i do not know what I have actually done or what I have imagined. but i do know if one tenth of what is happening to me is reality... I have done some really awful things in my life. things that i've... i guess I have blocked out...
what things do you think you have done?
wow. let's see. so many sins so little time. for starters i was responsible for the death my wife who by the way was carrying my unborn child. that was so i could collect her eight million dollar estate. i think i killed several women i was having mindless sex with behind her back.
but i saw these women. i saw their mutilated bodies. i saw their ghosts. i just know it happened i can feel it...
all you have got is the here and the now trevor. that is all anyone really has. maybe this will make things easier to understand. a man goes to sleep every night and has recurring dream that he is a butterfly. in time he begins to wonder if he might actually be a butterfly who dreams he is a man. and at the end of the day does it even matter? all these events you are describing. how can you be sure any of them really happened?
but that is what i need. to be sure... to be absolutely sure...
shh. it is okay son. there is but one truth. one thing you can be absolutely sure of. and that thing is this:
poor trevor.
this game is over do you hear me?
i hear everything. and soon you will know everything. more than you ever wanted i can guarantee that. but i want you to think for a minute first. think about all you have seen. all the clues you have been given.
bret... what the fuck...?
tonight was supposed to be the night, trevor. remember? i could not believe you went through five dart games and did not even joke about it.
bret. what the hell is going on?
we were going to be millionaires you said. nobody'd suspect a thing. i had never even met her. no connection. then you went and had that fucking car accident.
bret you are making no sense whatsoever.
i followed her trevor. i got to know her life. and what a boring one it was. six a.m. gym, nine a.m. trendy coffee shop, noon bookstore, one soap operas, four of the clock news, five wait for trevor to come home. and wait and wait and wait. nine of the clock get ready for bed.
now i want you to tell me what you remember happening- in your own words- exactly the way you told detective lange. but this time i want you to make one small adjustment.
what is that?
morgue...?
that is right trevor. the timing was impeccable was not it? it is been eight months two weeks and three days but we finally found the body. just need you to id it for us.
how is our little student doing? has he learned his lesson yet?
i do not know who you are or what you want. i just want to know what is under that sheet...
use your mind for something other than numbers dear trevor. think about people for a change. people other than yourself. like the women you slept with behind your wife's back. you were always so confident you had covered your tracks. always confident your wife actually believed your fervent denials? part of you must have known she would find out.
what is under that sheet...?
you probably do not remember the night we played. your first year as husband and wife.
