it is been on the market a while, has not it?
not very long.  there have been a couple of bids already.
because it caught my eye when it was in a higher price bracket in the listings.
oh, yes, well, you know, when developers remodel a house they often overestimate their costs at first.  it is not like it is been marked down or anything.
just reduced.
sometimes they prefer a quicker return on their investment.
this is a terrific entrance hall, what a welcoming feeling.
is not it?
you will see that there is really much more space than the average three bedroom.
oh, space!  -- you said the right thing.
how large is your brood?
two -- three if you count the husband.
we must always count the husband. by my count there've been... four. but i still live in hope.
how is the new place?
it is great.  it is clean and airy and quiet -- there are trees and flowers.  there is still some fixing up i have to do, but it is coming along.
and the rent is okay?
oh, it is nothing.  no problem. i was really lucky to find this place.
all right then.  that is important, is not it?  -- for you to be in an "up" environment.  I am saying you should literally take that as your base, do you know what i mean? it is something positive that you have accomplished -- even if you were forced by circumstance -- something for you to build upon.
right.
and what about work?  have you had any more thoughts about what you would like to be doing now?
well, I have been doing a little independent contracting, some carpentry here and there, y'know, do-it-yourself-type stuff.  i still find it very soothing.
I am happy that you are working again.  as long as it comes naturally, that is terrific. you have always liked working with your hands, have not you?
yeah, since i was a kid.  i had a woodwork class once when i was... in school that time.  then i learned a lot more when i was in the --
-- hospital.
-- institution.
right.  so, you have a new place, you have started working a bit -- I am sure you will be meeting some new people.
actually, i have met someone. there is a woman i think i like.
oh, good -- well, i hope you will have more to tell me next time.
neil, calm down.
neil, do not leave the back doors open -- i do not want holly near the pool.
we would have to get one of those sliding covers for the pool.
i hear what you are saying, but i know what you are thinking.
what?
you are thinking exactly what i thought when i first saw this house,
what is that?
this -- is -- the -- one -- for -- us.
stop knowing me so well.
i know it is at the high end of our range --
high end?  honey, it is a whole new budget.
but it is what we want.
you wanted furniture too, did not you?
they do not expect to get what they are asking.  let's make an offer.
you want me to bargain at the high end of our range?  -- I will have a stroke.  I have got to save all my sweat for my meeting in three weeks.
you could have a pool to cool off in.
it is a nice pool, is not it?
and it is a shorter commute.
it will be even shorter if i get that new job.  come on.
what if someone else buys it in the meantime?
honey, nobody buys a house overnight -- if someone else comes back at them, well, we might have to make a counter offer.  but we can not look too eager or we will get screwed.
are we gonna buy this house?
do you have enough money?
we are going to think about it.
it is very nice, but it is still a little pricey for us.
i found a cent!
"find a penny, pick it up, all day long you will have good luck!"
dad, we can not decide unless rudolf gets to look too!
would you mind if rudolf had a look too?
how were we -- were we cool?
paul newman in "the hustler."
good -- that is what i was trying to project.
and this -- is the master bedroom.
oh yeah?  where is the bed?
right over here.
is it a king or a queen?
it is a double.
even better.
even cosier.
that is right -- you got the bill this morning.  i put it on your desk.
thank you -- how efficient of you.
okay!  we have tv!  we can all get stupid again!
what about cable?
we will get cable when the cable company is good and ready -- you think you can survive till then?
no.
'"... or I will huff and I will puff and I will blow your house down!" and inside their new house, the three little pigs just laughed -- '
'who's afraid of the big bad wolf, the big bad wolf...'
are you being helped, sir?
I am looking for some perfume.
any particular brand?
well, it is for a woman.
wife, girlfriend or mother?
oh -- uh -- girlfriend.
c'mon, kids, let's go.
"we do not want to be late for our first day of school."
all right, who ate the last piece of cheesecake?
i didn't.
now, neil.  stop teasing your sister.
damn.
did you hear that?
what?
did you hear what he said?
what?
he made, you know, a remark.
honey, are you okay?
-- and keep my kids away from his property -- who the hell does he think he is?  some nice neighborhood.
honey, the meeting today is going to be fine.  do not get in an uproar.
i know.  it is just having to pass muster with these juniors before the senior partner even agrees to see me.
it is just a dumb game they play. you want to be at a bigger firm, get used to the politics.
hey.  have a nice time -- it is a good school.
bye, neil!
so, neil.  how is it goin'?
okay.
I am bernard, by the way.  those are cool reeboks, neil.  they are real new, are not they?
hey, c'mon.
they are really white.
yeah, things are moving along, but she is still involved with this other guy and it is a little tricky.
listen, no one ever said expressing yourself to the opposite sex is easy, but when the time comes, you have to do it and you hope the outcome will be good for both of you. you come out of solitary and you rejoin the human race, as difficult as that sometimes can be.
when i was a child... i got used to the closets.  the boxes.  the cabinet under the kitchen sink... with that persistent drip.  i used to the smell of the boxes. wood.  cardboard.  i got so i was comfortable there in the dark. even... even that old refrigerator in the yard.  that smelled like rust and decay.  it was safe in the boxes.  it was when they took me out --
i guess so.  i mean, i know I am responsible for my own actions. it was never because i was angry with anyone.  i did not mean to hurt anyone ever.
you are responsible for your own actions and you do not mean to hurt anyone.  in other words, you have done your best.  I am saying do not carry the burden of other people's actions on your shoulders, because they are beyond your control.
why can not you just drive me to my old school every morning?
because you would have to get up at five a.m., would you like that?
i could take a cab on the way home.
here, take this out to the table.
but there is this psycho.  really. mom, there is a psycho i have to deal with every day.  i do not know why they let a psycho even go to school!
how was lunch?
huh?
how was your lunch with charlie?
oh -- great.
well, did he hear anything about your prospects for the new job?
no.  if i hear anything you will be the first to know, all right?
god, your sister's really hot.
shut up.
let's follow 'em.
what for, dickweed?
it is fun.
grow up, dreyer.
you have done a really great job with the house.  it is great!
yeah.  there is still a lot i want to do.  it is not quite... the kids are not really settled in yet. even the dog has been terribly high-strung and whines a lot since we have been here.  look, he has not even come in for his food today.
so you do not have anything concrete?
no, i told you.  a whiff of perfume on his shirt.
have you just plain asked him?
I have asked him what is wrong.
and?
the same thing -- his business pressures, the whole move and everything.  he is frantic about nailing this new job, worried about screwing over his present boss.
I am sure that is all it is, honey. maybe you both just need a vacation.
I have tried to get him to agree to one.  i just -- i do not know... I am getting such weird vibes lately.
do not drive yourself crazy.  it is probably nothing.
rita, he is only twelve years old,
he will never appreciate it more.
do you remember who gave us this?
no.
there is no card or anything.
i hear things in this house,
all new houses have noises.
how long does it have to be a new house?
one day before we know it it will be an old house and we will be old in it -- and I will still be paying for it.
neil's still having a bad time at school.  i feel terrible seeing him so upset all the time.
he is made some friends, has not he?
i mean, he is a smart kid, he will get by -- he takes after me. you are too sensitive.
i know someone else who is sensitive.
baby, what is it?
I am thirsty.
aw, okay.
it is the middle of the night, sweetie.
a man scared me.
a man?  was it a dream?
uh huh.
has anyone seen rudolf?  i do not think he came in last night.
no, honey, i have not seen him. did not you feed him this morning?
rudolf!
neil, do you mind?
rudolf?  c'mere, rudolf!
yeah, i guess it would be good for us to get away for a while.  maybe rudolf got the same idea.  dogs need a change of scene, too, from time to time.
someone nice will find him if he gets lost.
all right then, if i have to go to school then I would better go.
why?  i just read your report card.  what is the point?  stay home, watch some television, we will get "mad" magazine delivered.  what kind of report card do you call this?!
I have been going through a lot of personal crap, all right?
oh really?  you've been going through a lot of personal crap. you, princess di and madonna?
if you want that baseball jacket for your birthday, neil, learn to cough a little more realistically.
i have a cold.
what did the thermometer say?
the thermometer's broken.
he does not have a temperature.
i can not help it if my homework is torn to shreds three times a week by someone much bigger than me.
y'know what?  I am ready to cancel our trip.  i really am. I have had it.
and i can not help having a cold.
what d'you want me to do, neil? I have told you we will get another dog.  what does everyone want me to do?  you want to move back? huh?  would you like that?  should we all just pack up again and move back?!
give it here, bernard.
whoa, check it out.
thank god.
i think we got it just in time before the ink dried.
whew.
the pocket's a cinch -- I will sew it up for you after dinner, okay?
thanks, mom.
promise?
promise.
I would like that.
would you?
uh huh.
really?
really.
no, I am not kidding you, philip.
what next?!  -- a strange bra under my pillow!
i remember what day you wore that jacket.  it was monday.  the day you were all day in meetings again?  and had to send out for sandwiches?
honey, you know what I have been like lately... I have been a total zombie.  i have no idea what that was doing in my pocket.
well, what about these?  do you usually put your carbons in your pocket, too?!
sweetheart, this is a very risky time for me right now.  maybe you do not appreciate that.
i do not care, philip.  you want to go chasing barbara zelman, go ahead.  just watch out for those buck teeth.
barbara zelman?  i do not believe this!
do you usually pay for charlie? at "trattoria valentino"?
honey, i can not track of all the meals charlie and i have been having.  this is a delicate time. if it leaks out that I am jumping ship before I am set up someplace else i could be out on my ear before I am ready with nothing. with nothing.
there are people who do things because they want to get caught.
who told you that -- someone on the radio?
fuck you, philip.
i thought we would be happy here.
honey, I am sorry, i think the vacation will be a good break for both of us.  you will see.
the cab's waiting!
where should i hide the car keys?
i do not know -- put 'em in the drawer with all the chinese take- away menus.
did you lock the garage door?
and how are things with your lady friend, if i may call her that?
oh, fine.  she is gone away for a little while and when she comes back I have sort of resolved to really tell her how much i care for her.
that is terrific.  do not be afraid to be demonstrative.  you are sounding a lot more confident than when we last spoke.
i am.  I am really feeling pretty good.  i have a much stronger sense of how far I have come.
as long as you keep remembering why.
well, we talked about the whole disapproval thing.
the whole disapproval thing.  if you allow yourself to get into a situation where someone else's potential disapproval becomes the focal point of your life -- then you are back to a life of fear, are not you?  -- you are a prisoner to that again, and that is not much of a life.
i understand that.
and please, do not for god's sake misinterpret that as being the voice of discouragement in any way --
no, no, no, no.
on the contrary -- this is tremendous.  i mean, we are all frightened to death of disapproval and we are constantly hiding behind these layers we manufacture for ourselves -- and I am not saying we should, you know, declare ourselves unhesitatingly to our fellow human beings in the interests of total openness and honesty --
that would be stupid.
that would be monumentally stupid. all I am saying is --
-- a sense of proportion.
a sense of proportion.
you test each one thoroughly?
you better believe it, buddy. your average rolls royce does not have to pass as many tests.  you want consistency?  you want dependability?  you want safety?
safety?
listen, you can kick 'em, hit 'em, pour water all over 'em -- nothing.  I am telling you, under ordinary conditions they are quiet, they are nice to have around, they are completely harmless -- but when you blow this whistle...  ... then look out.
look at that.  you can not buy better protection than that.  that there is your man's best friend.
how are they with kids?
they are great with kids.  they love 'em.  they eat 'em up.  I am kidding.
so this really does the trick, eh?
friend, that animal will go after whoever's approaching the sound of that whistle.  and god help whoever it is.  because that dog will not let up until there is dead meat on the ground.  put your faith in that, pal.
did the cleaning woman come?
yeah -- she did a good job.  this glass looks brand-new.
the floor has a nice shine to it.  oh god -- we have twenty-two messages on the machine.
did she water this plant?  it looks a little bent out of shape.
hiya, sport.  where did you come from, huh?
can we keep him?
he wants to see me!
philip!  the senior partner?
his secretary just confirmed.
oh baby.
what -- what are you doing?
i think you should feel like dancing at a time like this.
c'mon.
shit!
put it out, man!
honey?  how did it go?  you did not call me.
he was not there.
what?
i get to the restaurant and he is not there. i waited for forty- five minutes.  when i called his office, his secretary said they thought i had cancelled.  i had cancelled!  then i get back to my office and aranson is waiting for me and he knows everything.
oh, honey.
everything -- that I have been talking to other people behind his back -- that is what he called me -- a back-stabber and a deceiver. to him and to the company. he called me a traitor in front of everybody and told me if i wanted to be a vp over at lowenthal i might as well pack up and go -- only lowenthal never showed up for our lunch!  it is like everybody got an anonymous poison-pen letter or some --  do you smell smoke?
a man started the fire.
neil, goddamn it, you are not five years old!
neil, you could have burned the house down!
i do not know how it started!
you knew a second ago.  who started it?
-- a man.
do you see a man?
no.
no man!  go to your room.
honey -- i can not find those large- size hefty trash bags!
there might be some extras in the garage.
i thought i was supposed to stay in my room.
get on the other side of that.
honey, it is not the end of the world.  you will call lowenthal tomorrow and find out it was just a mix-up.  and if he is not interested anymore, then you will find another company to go to maybe even your own.  you are free now, you are independent.
I am fired.  I am unemployed.  is that your idea of negotiating from a position of strength?  clearly any potential employers have been warned to back off!
that is not the case.
someone blew the whistle.  someone hates me.
things are beginning to come to a head.  i can feel it.  and i want everything to be perfect.
who doesn't?
I have cultivated her interests so that now we have even more in common than ever.
well, now, do not go creating some artificial environment for yourself.
oh no -- i mean, she is genuinely made me more fulfilled in many ways -- and i hope eventually to be able to teach her a few things, too.  what i mean is, i guess I am still waiting for just that right -- synthesis between us -- where everything will be understood between us without even the need for words.
it is not going to happen unless you make it happen, my friend. you are going to have to assert yourself a little bit more.  show your affection.
yeah, maybe you are right. everything else is just an excuse. I am treating the situation with kid gloves because I am afraid of losing her.
ask her how she feels.
i should.
you have to put yourself out there a bit more.
right.
because life is not about playing it safe.  life is about taking risks.
boy, you really buckle under a little pressure, do not you?
this is for the best, you know it is.  why do my socks keep disappearing!
"honey, I am a zombie, i do not know whether I am coming or going."
you are even sadder and more burnt- out than i thought.
i am so sick to death of hearing your opinion of my state of mind, what you think is for my own good. without me you would still be twirling a baton at u.c. santa barbara. you're the final straw on this back, baby!
your daddy and i are kind of mad at each other right now, so we have to spend some time apart.
why are you mad at each other?
you know how sometimes neil bugs you and you just get up and walk away from him?
uh huh.
well, that is what happens with grownups, too.
did daddy tease you?
yes, he did, and i do not like it any more than you do.
where did he go?
he is staying with a friend.  hurry up now, you will be late for school.
daddy's gone where rudolf went and is not coming back!
holly -- that is not so.
oh, well, do you fix refrigerators?
sure.
well, can i make an appointment?
maybe i could take a look at it now.
oh, great.
yeah, that was easy.
do you do washing machines, too?
just show me the way.
everything breaks at once.
is not that always the way?
so, you are just kind of a roving --
-- general handyman, yeah.  i do carpentry, too, painting, almost any odd job around the house.  i do housesitting while the owners are away.  in fact, that is why I have been in the area.  I have been living very close by.  here's the part that is giving you trouble, but i will not be able to get a replacement till the stores open tomorrow morning.
oh, that is fine.
"hi. I am mr. edgar!"  look, mommy, it does not even hurt him.
well, what do you want me to do, rita -- i can not just forget fifteen years of marriage.  well, of course i know you can.  no, rita, i -- what was that?  -- oh, i thought i heard something on the line.
was that your dad?
nah, that is some guy fixing the living room floor.
so where are all your toys?
let's watch some tv.
where are these toys of yours?
a lot of my stuff has not been unpacked yet.  here's the tv.
what toys do you have?
who was that?
I am having the floor fixed,
and what was that neighbor guy doing here?
philip, what are you doing here?
look, i think we should work things out.
i was having a bad day -- i lost that job, i was dependent on other people, i was let down --
there is always an excuse, is not there?
i think it is time i came home now.
that is not a decision for you to make on your own.
what?
no, philip, i do not want you coming back here.  and if you want to talk to me -- call.
this is my house.
i apologize for that scene with my husband.  you must have overheard.
an occupational hazard, I am afraid.
i bet.  going into people's homes.
it is a living.
do you have a family?
uh, no -- I have never really found the time to settle down.
you must value your independence.
yeah, I have always been able to make my way in the world.  i do not like having to rely on other people.
it is nice that you can make that choice.
i was alone a lot as a child.  no one to compete with.  my parents ensured that i found happiness in the smallest things.  when you are all alone it is your own world, you do not have to take orders from anybody.  you do not necessarily believe the stories people tell you.
not me, i fell for it right down the line.  be a good girl and believe all the fairy tales.  he married me because i was pretty.
because you were pretty?
well, these are good signs -- she is broken up with him and the two of you seem to be developing quite a rapport.
i know.  i just feel that the relationship has reached that delicate stage where the slightest little thing could wreck the careful groundwork I have laid up till now.
i can not help you if you do not help yourself.  it is really up to you. brooding endlessly is not going to help matters any.
there is so much i want to say to her, it is all jumbled up in my mind, and i do not want her to misunderstand --
well, you will just have to make her understand.
neil -- what --
mom, there's somebody in the house!
honey --
mom, i heard someone downstairs!
mommy!
it is okay, baby, the police are coming.
oh god.
yeah -- we know him.  he is been hanging around the house.
should i come home when I am finished there?
we will talk in the morning.
i was driving by -- i saw all the cars.  are you all right?
yeah, I am okay -- it is been a long night.
what happened?
can i tell you tomorrow?  i think i...
honey, do you want some hot chocolate?
no, thanks, mom -- I will go up to bed now.
do you want me to come up and tuck you in?
that is okay, mom.
i was thinking about our conversation the other day -- what you said about choices.
uh huh.
yeah, you know, that in life you really have to choose what you want to do.
listen, I am sorry, but it is really late -- you do not have to come tomorrow to work on the floor.
it is tomorrow.
yeah, right -- i really have to go to bed.
i think we should talk first.
about what?
about us.
mr. sykes, i think you should go home.
