business or pleasure, mr. price?
my wife. where were we?
your roller coaster that is, quote: "unlike any that has ever come before it."
absolutely. no cheap thrills. a genuine journey to the brink of madness.
ever seen one that starts at the top? 20 stories worth of top?
and then what happens?
i think it is something better experienced then described.
sources have told this reporter that the real reason your park's opening has been delayed was a near-fatal accident on one of the rides here. comment?
i would not be opening this place tomorrow if every single thing down to the beheaded beanie babies had not tested 100% safe.
first time for everything.
I have designed and built six of these places -- take my word for it, everything's fine.
do something!
like what?? this is not supposed to be happening!!
please! something! oh-god!
maybe if i --
houston, i think we may have a problem.
evelyn, go stir your cauldron or something for a sec.
problem where? looked good to me.
"dummy 6" keeps losing his arm.
so disengage his flail arm mechanism and just make him a screamer.
-- forget it. last birthday the manson family ranch, the year before that: jonestown.
oh. you think this is a request. well, think again. I am telling you: "haunted hill" is exactly where we are having my party this year. you will find the guest list on your desk by the time you get back --
i do not know, ms. jenzen.
well, who is the damn thing from?
messenger just dropped it off. no return address.
you did not think to ask?
i was in the middle of --
-- being utterly fucking useless, what else is new.
you think this is fucking funny??
no, no, it is just --
-- well, here's a better one: you are fired.
what?
and here's your goddamn severance!
...wow....wow! hey, ms. jenzen -- ?
are you still fucking <b>here</b>??
if you do not mind me asking... who are you?
name's pritchett. watson pritchett. i own the house, my father built it. and now i just need to get you into it. so...
i wanna know first: to what do i owe this honor? i mean, i never even heard of this guy.
I am just the greeter -- and in that capacity, i now urge you all strongly to --
but the million bucks each, that is for real?
it better be -- he still owes me $25 grand for renting the place for the night! here, let's get you some illumination so you can make your way safely!
nice touch, pritchett: subtle.
as a tumor.
wish i could take the credit, but --
-- guess we know where mr. price is now.
he must have beaten us all here!
'less the place really is haunted.
nonsense! just bad press. all the deaths that occurred inside -- my own father's included -- all perfectly normal fatal accidents.
you are totally full of shit, are not you?
you will never know 'til you walk through that door!
...jesus h. christ.
so where is the party?
looks like we are it.
more to the point. where is our host?
more of price's spook-house bullshit.
not at all!
part of the original structure. when it was still an asylum. guy who ran the place -- dr. vannacutt -- found it "inspirational." from some german cathedral a million years ago: "driving the demons from the mind."
I am moved beyond words.
mr. price? mrs. price? somebody? hello??
pritchett, take it down a couple hundred decibels, what is your problem?
problem? no problem -- just want to get my money and get on home -- you know, things to see, people to do?
i knew this whole place'd be pure gold! pritchett, point me in the direction of the goddamn ghosts! if i can get something bizarre enough on tape, i think i can parlay it into getting me some kind'a robert stack "unsolved most- wacked-out home videos" gig. no more five afternoons a week of sex-change- nazis-and-the-lesbos-that-love-'em.
you have got your own tv show?
the guy whose hair i do has his own tv show. all I have got is a blow-dryer and a dream.
...birds. just seagulls or something walking on the glass, goddammit.
cheer up: before the night's through, I am sure one of us'll get hacked to pieces by somebody or something.
is she...alright?
i thought she was dead. for sure.
she is been marked for it. the house does that. happened to pritchett's father. likely happen to you all. is not that what you told me, mr. pritchett?
i can not remember at the moment.
do not touch me!
I am impressed: i do not think evelyn's ever said those words to anything with genitalia.
I am not laughing, steven.
you should not be -- you were nearly just killed, sweetheart.  and now that our birthday girl is finally here, let the games begin!
have not they already?
could we have a word?
oh, i think we are going to have several.
so, what? the thing with the glass? price did that?
i hope not.
of course he did, for god's sake.  did not he, mr. pritchett?
i can not comment until i get paid.
i gave you a goddamn guest list two pages long -- where the hell are they?
shredded. sorry. decided to whip up one of my own: a group so hungry for money that they would be willing to do anything. i thought you would be more comfortable with your peers.
i guess it was stupid of me not to expect something this twisted from you. well, congratu-fucking-lations, steven: round one, you win.
well, not quite. see, those people down there: they are not the ones i invited.
then who are they?
you tell me. i do not know how you managed to hack into my mac, but: bravo.
what are you talking about? you think i invited them?
sure know it was not me. and if you say it was not you -- then who the hell did, evelyn?
it you really loved me, steven, you would find a way to drop dead in the next three seconds.
finding ways for me to die at these things is really your deal, is not it? the "o.j." knife with the not-quite- retractable blade? your "jim jones kool- aid" that was exactly that?
all accidents until proven otherwise.
you know how happy I would be if that was really true, evelyn? and how positively goddamn delirious if you were not fucking every living thing in our area code at the same goddamn time!
which part of that fantasy turns you on most: me with other men -- or just the other men?
you know everything you do gets me hot.
-- just not always in the sexual sense.
you are hurting me.
i know.
now, there is the simple country gal i married. let's go back down and greet your guests -- show them the real you: corny as kansas on the fourth of july.
my guests were shredded. it is your sick little scene now, steven: enjoy. I am going to go run scalding water on the places you just touched me, and then I am calling a cab.
right here, mr. pritchett. as well as five other bona fide, bank drafts for one million dollars each. made out to cash.
and we get this money when?
the second the sun hits tomorrow morning. assuming you have stayed the entire night - and you are still alive, of course. any other questions?
yeah. why is there five checks? there is only four of us.
you are forgetting my lovely wife; she is part of the same winner-take-all as the rest of you.
what are you talking about?
oh, sorry. detail i guess i forgot to mention. you die, you lose. your check gets divvied-up by those still amongst the living.
what are you playing here, price?
a very, very scary game. but then look at the bright side: if there is only one of you still upright at dawn, you will be leaving here with five million dollars in your pocket.
this is nuts.
yeah. but, hey, anybody who is not "comfortable" with the rules, you are free to walk, anytime. seven digits poorer, goes without saying.
I am ready now.
alright, mr. pritchett, let me just sign the damn thing.
just for the record: what are the rest of your names?
donald w. blackburn, m.d.
melissa margaret marr, celebrity.
eddie moses, communications attache -- which translated from ancient bullshit means: i work for a messenger service.
jennifer-jenzen-executive-v.p.- paragon-pictures.
very good. well, i think i can say with complete honesty: I have never heard of any of you.
then what the hell are we doing here?
how did you make your guest list, price: throw darts at a phone book?
you are not my list.
i got an engraved -- literally -- invitation -- with my name --
-- I am sure you did.
this is all maybe getting a little too strange --
-- i would not worry, ms. jenzen: the unexplainable will probably explain herself before too long. in the meantime, let's all relax, have a drink, the evening's young --
-- it is getting older by the second. mr. price, if i could just please have --
sorry, pritchett, here you go.
i think you are going to miss the bash of a lifetime --
-- my loss --
-- even if i give you a million as well?
would not know what to do with it all --
oh, no.
what is going on?
this thing's going nowhere.
if this is someone is idea of a joke --
why in god's name was not this thing removed years ago??
it was on my dad's list of "things to do." but the house did him first.
you said that was an accident.
i lied. the house is alive and we are all going to die.
oh, for chrissake --
-- uh, excuse me, just one quick question? how long before this damn thing unseals itself?
do not know that it does.
well, then, how 'bout maybe we call someone?
has not been a telephone in this house in over 60 years.
will not do any good.
why not?
must be those plates -- interfering with the signal somehow.
not the plates: the house. why is no one listening to me?? it is alive!  and once it is made up its mind, it will not let anything out.
so, what? you are saying we are stuck here the rest of our lives?
a cleaning crew's supposed to arrive at 9:30 tomorrow morning -- i think the power of the house fades at dawn.
-- well, let's hear it for small miracles --
-- but i imagine we will all be mutilated beyond recognition by then.
take a bow, steven, you have outdone yourself tonight -- scared holy hell out of even me.
if that is the fact, price, okay, you have had your fun -- now open the goddamn --
-- asking the wrong guy -- was not me who closed it.
sure it wasn't. hey, anybody else here make their living with thrills'n'chills for the kiddies? do not raise your hands all at once.
huh. and here i had a completely different theory.
really? well, let it rip.
oh, no-no-no -- much more bang for everyone's buck to nail the bitch --
-- the sadistic prick --
-- in the act.
uh, excuse me? do not think I am not having the time of my life watching this train wreck that is your marriage -- but this is not what i had in mind... i want to know that we can get out of here if we need to.
believe me, we need to.
pritchett, this "lockdown" thing -- it is got to have like a master control -- you know machinery, gears, whatever -- somewhere in this place?
the basement -- but, believe me, you do not want to go down there.
no, you do not want to go down there. i am going down there. and I am going to find <b>reverse</b> on this thing and floor it.
you will never find it, it is a maze down there.
well, that leaves you with two options then, does not it: either show me where and maybe we get out of here -- or it is spend-the-night-sleep-tight.
what are you talking about?
must be getting old, stevie -- you are repeating yourself -- this is the exact same set-up you used for the son-of-sam hunt back in '94.  girlie, open up that casket there and see what you find.
so how is a girl to know if these things are loaded, baby?
only one way i can think of, sweetheart.
I will meet you down there.
take the gun.
and where are we off to, mr. price? check the wiring on the animatronic mummies?
a simple leak, if it is okay with you.
and you are not really as large and useless as you seem.
I am better than that.
do not push it.
-- hey! next time give me a couple seconds notice before you wing a gag like that!
the lockdown thing.
i mean, not that it did not give evelyn the kind of coronary i had in mind, just...
-- it was not me.
rewind that.
i was just sitting here -- it happened. i had nothing to do with it.
then who did??
no idea. i did not even know the damn thing still worked!
it works.
maybe it was just its time to finally fall apart.
no. somehow -- i do not know how -- she did it.
pretty amazing feat: all that shit down the basement and your wife's up in the bedroom the whole time.
do not take your eyes off her for a second. i think she just declared war.
we would have been splitsville years ago, with me the richest single woman in recorded history -- but steven does not "believe" in divorce.
not too big on it myself -- but then again, not on marriage either.
oh, he is got no problem with that: I am his fourth.
I am confused.
no need for divorce and that messy division-of-assets thing when they kick before you do.
you should really open this place to the public, pritchett -- a spa for people without enough stress in their lives.
i said we should not come down here. very treacherous -- physical and metaphysical levels, both. there've been no refurbishments to this part of the house -- it is exactly as it was in 1931.
sorry.
good way to get your head blown off.
I will try not to remember to warn evelyn.
what is in there?
nothing.
what is it? what is in there?
the soul of the house. everything that is corrupt about it... my father trapped it in there just before he died. you see, he purchased the house to restore it... we were going to live here... nothing can live here. i was just a kid... the first time i saw it, i thought it was beautiful... it was just a dark mist turning into the corner of the room... then it started to move... then death started to happen... first the workers.. six in all... then my father...
ghosts killed your father?
not ghosts... at least not what you are thinking... vannacutt used to dump the bodies of his failed experiments somewhere in the house...
and you think it is in there?
accumulated evil... festering for decades...  but I am a drunk... so do not listen to me.
so you are saying as long as that door stays locked, we are okay?
hell no!! the house will kill ya!
new wrinkle on an old theory for treating schizophrenia. 19th century, i think: what would drive a sane man mad should make a madman sane. the vannacutt version was: bombard the patient with aural and visual stimuli far more frightening than any hallucination they could ever produce, it would traumatize 'em back to "normalcy."
did it work?
hey! where did you guys go?
left, goddamnit!
three steps forward -- i want to get up there.
why?
this whole place can not be wired to just one circuit --
thanks.
most fun I have had all day.
you need to get out more.
what? deep down inside?
start with the name you were born with, and we will work forward from there.
i told you already: jennifer jenzen, executive v.p. of --
i do not think so...
why not?
most of my business is making deliveries to high rollers. and i have yet to meet one executive who could tie their own shoes -- let alone rewire an entire house. you do not fit the bill -- not even close.
there is always exceptions.
not in the movie biz. so, c'mon, gimme the truth.
-- eddie!!
over here.
evelyn, could you just zip it for a moment? it looks like we are stuck here 'til morning -- let's make the best of it.
best of a nightmare.
there is something very not normal going on here!
this? this is nothing. you have only been dealing with the house itself. you have no idea what you are tinkering with. sooner or later, the darkness that is at the core will get out... one of you will release it... not meaning to, of course... then...  ...bye, bye, miss american pie...
pritchett, what is this "core of darkness"?
i thought you understood.... it is the souls of vannacutt's dead... the insanity... the horror... victims burned alive... all that pain percolating somewhere in the house for seventy-some years...  ...singing this will be the day that i die... this will be the day that i....
there must be some other way out.
well, until that is found, i think it is a good idea we all stick together.  or would not that fit into your plans, baby?
fine with me. just somebody then better go and round up melissa marr.
where is she?
stalking the wild poltergeist.
melissa!
ms. marr!
what?
is she alright?
something just must've...frightened her, that is all.
yeah...something.
well, she went somewhere! she did not just up and disappear into thin air!
no...not air --
-- of this place, goddamnit, pritchett!
yes.
jesus h. christ!
oh dear.
if you do not calm the hell down I am going to strap you in for electro-shock!
how you gonna manage that with a new blow-hole in your dome?
hey, if everybody's going to kill each other, could you do it in another room? I am trying to get something accomplished here.
what the hell good is fixing that gonna get us?
an answer, i hope: exactly what -- or who -- melissa was taping.
and then where are we?
put it this way: if it is your face on that tape, mr. moses, we are one gunshot away from solving all our problems --
-- fuck you!
game, set and match, steven. you have outdone yourself. and i know it is not good manners to ask the magician how he did it, but inquiring minds are desperate to know: just what did really happen to ms. marr?
asking the wrong person again.
i mean, did she stage it all for you and then go hide -- or did you just flat out kill the little bitch --
-- i pose you the same question --
-- and who is next on your list?
if i had one, evelyn, i think you know who would be first and last --
-- oh, for chrissake, that is a given; we all know that knocking me off is the bottom line here --
-- that was not my original plan, but it is starting to look more attractive --
-- thank you! all the cards finally on the goddamn table!
jesus!
question answered.
they were not loaded when i put them in there!
funky little house, am not it?  friends, your hostess is now going to retire for what is left of the night. if you need me, I will be in the bedroom upstairs -- but try and fight that need: the door'll be locked, I will be trying to sleep, and if anyone so much as breathes in the keyhole, I am going to empty this thing into their fucking head. thank you all for the bestest birthday a girl could have.
even if i were inclined, I have had better -- and a lot safer -- opportunities to kill off a wife.
three times, to be exact.
excuse me?
accidents. fatal. each of your prior wives, so we have been informed.
can not imagine by who. i do not suppose the truth would interest you: that I have never had another wife but evelyn.
married. once. same woman. all these years. she just slithered up the stairs.
prove it.
prove it how?
yeah, what the hell, I will go.
yeah, me too.
more the merrier.
no. I am going back to try and find ms. marr. if she is hurt, I will tend to her. dead, then I am coming back for him.
i think...i may have the answer.
what?
i remember...it was a long time ago...my father said: when the house was finally completed, make sure...we-christen-it- with-this-bottle-of-dirt-cheap-champagne- that-should-still-be-in a cupboard somewhere!
you hear somebody?
no -- keep pulling, it is moving!
we can do it...
sure, with three days and a blowtorch.
it is a thousand years old -- we just need a crowbar or something to get leverage -- the sucker'll pop!
no prob: I will just hop down the hardware store --
-- no. the basement -- the room with all the controls to this thing: big long iron levers just lying there --
-- not a chance -- there is too much weirdness down there i do not think even bullets are going to stop.
you are starting to sound like pritchett.
where is it??
i do not know!!
what is it??
something with the power, i do not know!!
what is down there?
the...fourth of july.
I am sorry --
-- she is not dead! just have to get her heart pumping aqain!
oh, jesus....
adrenaline -- in your bag, blackburn, you must have --
i...don't think...anybody should be touching the body.
i think I will do what i damn well please.
house 2, guests 0.
i think, pritchett, we have got a situation here that even you can not explain away as "ghosts." this is ice- cold homicide by person -- or persons --
i was upstairs with eddie --
-- that is the fact, bud --
-- where the hell were you?
upstairs, too. come with me, I will show you another body, a friend of mine named schecter --
-- what was he doing here?
running all the bells and whistles we set up to scare hell out of everybody --
-- the stained glass --
-- yeah, we did that --
-- the window and door grates --
-- no -- that is when everything went ragtime -- whoever else is in this house has been doing everything since -- i thought it was evelyn --
i was upstairs!
i never saw you --
-- i did: down here.
and i think that is case --
-- closed.
pritchett, you are not joining this necktie party?
-- then i guess then it had to be you. sorry.
thank god -- i was afraid I would be lynched without a quorum.
if you have got a gun on you, price, I would hand it over now.
not just yet. would any of you be interested in knowing exactly why i ended up here in the basement?
fascinated.
i was chasing after somebody i saw in the salon.
oh, really: who?
did not catch his or her name, just followed them down here. somebody all in white surgical gown.
vannacutt!!
or somebody wanting me to believe that.
well, i don't.
then just wait -- maybe this whoever's got you next on the asylum's equipment- test list. maybe a literal mind-blow inside the "saturation chamber."
I will take my chances.
well, i can't, sweetheart.
if there really is someone else in this house, i think the four of us can handle the situation.
i think one of you has been part and parcel of making this situation!
do not test me, I am real prepared to use this to stay alive --
-- confirming everything we already know --
-- I will take the chance, come morning and cops, I will be proved right --
-- you lose either way, price --
-- listen to the man --
-- listen to me, goddamnit --
-- no more --
now what do we do? we have got to hold him somewhere 'til the police --
-- the "saturation chamber." where he wanted to put me.
do not think it will be a problem.
c'mon.
should not somebody like, stand guard or something -- just in case?
I will stay, if it will ease your mind.
you sure? you will be alright by yourself?
i think we should have taken a right back there.
back where?
good point.
let's try down here...
what are you looking for?
maybe there are notes or drawings of this place, showing how those plates work.
cheery looking bunch.
better living through electricity.
holy shit! now we know how the guest list was made up. look, these names... head nurse, ruth-ann stockard... bjorn jensen, electro therapy... jasper marr, thomas steven price... they are all here!
wait a minute... what are you saying?
everyone that was invited is related to one of the staff who was here when the place burned. there are five of us...
shit, pritchett!!!
price did not make the guest list... the house did. it wants vengeance.
how is a goddamn building going to send out invitations?
what is life, anyway? waves...? sound...? light...? electricity...? i do not know... phone lines...?
or an on-line computer.
that is crazy!
what about that other guy?
easy. you have got to keep still for a bit, the last thing we need is a coronary.
you are the doctor, sweetheart. 'guess the atropine worked, then.
convinced all those that needed convincing: you are an official dead lady.
and what is steven's status?
still alive, but it is just a matter of time. and then will come your miraculous resurrection --
-- "oh, no, officer, I am very much alive -- just a joke to beat my husband at his own clever game -- what? what do you mean he is dead? it is all my fault, i may as well have killed him myself!"
"but you didn't, ma'am. we have all these witnesses that saw..." well, whoever it ends up being that finally shoots him --
-- the james dean wannabe with the hair trigger --
-- or might turn out to be -- very big surprise -- that jenzen girl. the little bitch has the right stuff. she nearly put a bullet in price right after your "demise."
so what stopped her?
it is complicated. but do not worry --
-- there is already been way too many complications for a very simple plan. you ever find out what happened to melissa marr?
not yet.
so we do not even know if she is alive or dead --
-- price killed her, there is no other explanation --
-- there is plenty: for all we know, steven's got her spying on us right now --
-- bullshit --
-- the whole thing is falling apart!
it is not, baby. just a matter of minutes now, before somebody pulls the trigger --
-- but nobody has yet, donald. they just have not been brought to that breaking point. they have to believe proof-positive that their lives are in danger.
how much more do they need than your death at his hands?
but they did not see it happen, they still have doubts. what we need is another body, and steven's bloody hands right next to it!
and how the hell are we going to do that?
okay: this may sound crazy, but --
this is the best we are going to do.
it will have to do.
you coming, or are you waiting for blackburn?
blackburn's dead.
excuse me?
he would have been back by now.
price!!
he is got to still be down here.
price!
oh, dear.
please.....anyone....help me?
melissa...?
for the love of god....please...?
melissa, it is sara -- is that you?
sara...?
keep talking, I will find you!
something....happened --
-- I am coming --
-- something horrible...i do not understand --
then tell me, please -- help me...!
do not think so. stay the fuck back.
please! i need your help.
not even for a million dollars, mr. price.
oh. jesus.
poor mr. price --
it is okay, everything's okay now.
he is dead...?
do not think it is even an issue.
we are safe?
uhhhh...
what?
okay -- I will admit it: I am totally, clinically insane. but I am still the only one who actually got a check tonight. it is yours -- if you just get me the hell out of here now.
steven --
-- anything, sweetheart, you need only speak --
-- what...are...you...going...to --
-- just what you wanted everyone here to believe in the first place: I am going to murder you, evelyn, with the greatest of pleasure --
-- wit...nesses --
-- witnesses to what? you are already dead, evelyn! happy birthday, baby --
no...
no. ohmygod, pritchett was right -- the house <b>is</b> haunted.
evelyn... get up... now!
steven??
he was right! pritchett was right!
i am.
what --
-- was that??
the opening's still too small, we will never get through!
for chrissake give me a hand!
pritchett: what is going on?
he must have unsealed the room!
how, he is supposed to be dead!
hail mary, full of grace -- the house is growing!
it is not going to let us out!
no. it is just trying to frighten us.
it is succeeding!
all the plates sealing the windows and doors -- there is got to be some way of raising them manually. they did not just appear out of thin air -- there is got to be pulleys, cables or something, that make them go up and down.
if you know where it is, get there!
me? you have got to be kidding.
where did it go?
run.
what --
you okay?
yeah. and under other abnormal circumstances, i think this would be the time to seriously jump your bones.
better put it on hold 'til we find pritchett.
i do not do groups.
what?
jesus!
-- hey! --
-- ten.
pritchett, is that you?
up here --
pritchett!
over here!
