i... i got back a stack today. some nice shots.  see, a good topless june wilkinson... unfortunately she personalized it...  to stucky, love june.
hmmmmm.
shit, this am not worth nothing now that my name gotten all over it. i was a fixin' on trading it to jackie cobb.
the retard over at molly's fruit stand.
yeah, he is all hot on her after he found some of his dad's old nudie books hidden in the basement. he keeps 'em taped inside his school workbook.
fascinating.
that kid is one horny retard.
christ, am not they all. all them retards wanna do is fuck and eat.
well, yeah... i think that if you knew him... i mean if you would understand his urges, shit the guy's like forty or something.
worse than a fucking rabid baboon.
yeah, i guess, you know next to wacking his weasel his other favorite thing is twisting sharpened pencils in the corner of his eyes.
what?
yeah, does not hurt himself, just spins it around next to his eyeball.
I am sure that am not the only place he is sticking those pencils.
naw, he do not do anything else with 'em, but he did get caught once with a planet of the apes doll hanging out his asshole.
goddamn.
had to take him to the hospital. kid had dr. zaius stuck half way up his butt, could not get it out.
i always loved that mute broad that chuck heston was shacking up with.
nova, yeah she looked pretty sweet.
yeah, now there is the perfect woman.
can i get some stamps off ya?  did you fix the toilet yet?
ya hear me? you bust that crapper and I will beat your ass.
i hear ya.
fuck your grandmother.
yeah, i remember mr. alacard the shop teacher use'ta call you little dick wick. hey, was not there a song we made up to go with that?
really? huh, i thought for sure you would say lynette fromme. she is got that snooty vibe i know you dig.
sqeaky! no way, she am not that hot.
she is pretty cute.
yeah but, she reminds me of this chick that i remember from fourth grade... called a... shit, what did we call her?  oh yeah, patty pee-pee pants... when ever she got called on by miss chumski, this chick would piss in her pants and start bawling.
there always one kid with no bodily controls. we had this dude, jeff baxter, he was a puker. the fucker would just sit there puke all over himself.
better than pissing... anyway so, what is your choice?
if we are talking cute... like regular cute, I would say leslie van houton, but cute am not hot.
yeah, no shit.
as far a hot... goes i gotta go with... ruth ann moorehouse.
oh yeah, i forgot about her. she was pretty hot.
fuck yeah, she is. I would join a cult to get some of that... and the best part is she did not try to kill the president or nothing, so that baggage am not hanging around.
i thought she tried to murder a witness for the prosecution.
I will let it slide, she was only seventeen.
dude, talk about baggage, that am not no carry-on shit, that is some heavy duty samsonite shit.
yeah, i guess... hot chicks are always nuts.
hot has got nothing to do with it.
hold on, I have heard this before... but i can not remember the end.
so, the guy goes to hell and the devil says, "do you smoke?" the guy say, "yeah"... the devil say, "great cause tuesday is cigar night, sweetest cuban cigars you ever had."
shit, we really need to find some gas.
then the devil asks, "do you drink?" guy says, "yeah"... devil say, "wonderful, wednesday is free drinks night, best booze you ever had... all made from the finest stuff."
yeah.
then the devil says, "are you gay?" guy says, "fuck no"... devil says, "well then, i guess you are going to hate thursdays."
oh yeah, i remember now.
yeah, no shit i just told ya.  hey, you think this place called alien ed's ufo welcoming center is still around? it says, "where the fact is separated from the fantasy."
i dunno... we will ask around as we get closer. man, i really do not want to run out of gas out here in the middle of petticoat junction, man.
do not panic yourself, way too much caffeine guy... i see a sign.  captain spaulding's museum of madmen and monsters... cool. also... fried chicken and... gasoline... next exit.
perfect.
i hope this place is cool. we could use something interesting to liven up chapter 12.
I will pump the gas. go inside and see if it is worth thinking about.
ok, boss.
holy crap. you got to see this place. it is awesome.
how awesome?
really fucking awesome.
wake up the chicks and bust out the camera awesome?
hell yeah.
huh?
grab mary and come inside.
come on sleeping beauty, time to go to work.
sleeping.
rise and shine.
no please, let me sit this one out.
let's go. you are the one who wanted to be a photographer.
i resign.
too late. you are in for life, let's move it out private shutterbug.
christ, i hope this is not more crappy folk art. it is so quaint... it is so primal... it is so crap.
aw, it am not crap... it's... cute.  ...and really who are we to judge the artistic merit of the tin-can mona lisa?
aw, shit...  i gotta pee anyway.
how long have you been running this place?
how long is a piece of string? too god damn long, that is how long.
no, really.
shit, i do not remember exactly. i took over for my pa just after the duke nabbed the oscar.
the duke?
yeah, my pa was not right in the head after that.
you mean john wayne?
hell, boy there some other duke you know about?  a great american.
yeah, i was never that big of a western fan. i like science fiction.
i figured that much. why the fuck you asking so many jackass questions for?
you see me and my friends are writing a book on offbeat roadside attractions. you know all the crazy shit you see when you drive cross country.
i do not drive cross country.
but if you did.
i don't.
but suppose for a second you did.
you all find us country people real funny like do not ya... well, god damn pack up the mule and sling me some grits, i'ze a got to get me some schooling.
no, no i think it is really interesting.
well fuck me side sally, who want to read about all that horse shit anyway.
i swear I have aged five years since this trip started.
tell me about it.
god, i hate falling asleep in the afternoon. now I will be up all night...  ...ugh, my back is killing me.
yeah, hey how far do you think we are from your dad's?
it will be nice to have a few days off to regenerate. this trip is fun, but it is starting to get brutal.
yeah, i hit burn out mode back at that old stripper lady's place. watching her dance around with those ratty-looking animals was ridiculous.
i know, that was some crazy shit. i never in a million years would have believed it if i had not seen it.
a decent meal every once in a while would not hurt either, this road food is crap.
if i never eat at another waffle house again, i can die a happy girl.
scattered, smothered and covered.
exactly... well, i guess a couple more photos will not kill me.
great, you are back. let's go. we already paid for the tickets.
tickets for what?
this is not everything. get ready for this... there is a museum of murder and mayhem.
i do not want to see that.
aw, come on. it will be fun.
oh yeah, murder museum... sounds fun.
we will need pictures of the inside too.
alright, alright. i know... i wanted to be the photographer.
hello...  ...hey denise... what, what is wrong, did you break down?
no, nothing like that... yeah, we are going to be a little late. we stopped for gas at this place called capt. spaulding's outside of ruggsville and it turned into a whole thing, so we are kind of behind schedule.
oh yeah, yeah I have driven by that place before. i seem to remember a crabby old bastard in a crummy clown suit running the place.
yeah, well he is still here. i think him and jerry are fast becoming buddies, you know jerry... yeah, he is got to see everything... yeah, i know... thinks there is some unsolved mystery around every corner.
well, do not take too long, the kids are already knocking down the door demanding their sugar fix... i know, i know i forgot to mention that halloween falls on a school night, so they are trick or treating tonight... i got the joint decked out this year, built a graveyard in the front yard like when you were a kid.
hopefully i can move things along here and make up the lost time by speeding all the way home... yes, dad I am kidding.
well, just promise me you will be careful... alright, alright see ya soon... good-bye.
I am going to go ask him.
aw, come on jerry. we have gotten all we are going to get out of this place and its starting to rain.
shit, it is only sprinkling and it is worth the trouble. hold on for two seconds.
geez, he never gets tired does he.
never. i swear to god he never sleeps, he goes to bed after me, wakes up before me. he is always working on 10.
maybe he is a cyborg.
i like sleep.
here he comes.
we hit the jackpot! let's roll, good buddy. we got ourselves a convoy.
huh?
ugh, what is that smell?
fried chicken.  anybody want some?
keep straight on this road here.
how much further?
I am not exactly sure... it looks close. did we pass an abandoned school bus yet?
i do not know.
let's just skip it. it is probably nothing anyway.
aw christ, jerry. we can not see anything now, it is too dark. let's forget it.
come on, we need something like this. it could be the real deal. it is too far out of the way to come back to.
what is that?
it is a hitchhiker.
way out here?
well, do not even think about playing the good samaritan, there is way too many psychos wandering loose these days.
it is a girl.
hey, maybe she knows where this is?
that seems likely.
should we stop?
we can not leave her out here in the rain... maybe we can just drop her at the next rest area.
she looks like a freak.
stick her in the front, if you want to pick her up so bad. she is soaked.
she looks like she stinks.
she looks like she stinks.
cat fight, cat fight.
whoa, thanks for stopping. i been standing out there in that toad strangling rain for like a hundred million years.
really, that is a long time.
yeah, most people just whiz on by like i was invisible or something... or else they are creeps who wanna jam their slimy hands down my pants and twiddle my naughty-naughty.
yikes.
yeah, icky. this one guy stops and i look in and he is got his thing out waving it around like a drunk monkey.
sounds like a magical trip through the heartland.
where ya headed?
aw, i was going home to my mamma's house... yeah, i was out doing this thing.
where is that?
couple more miles up this road.
yeah, i know where that is, it is right by my house. it is dr. satan's tree. i can show ya.
really, wow, so it is really a real thing.
yeah, it is a tree. i used to play there all the time. but, you can not find it without me. outsider can not find no deadwood.
deadwood, is that what it is called? cool, will you show us?
maybe, maybe, maybe... hey, you know what word i hate?
what?
cone.
huh... what cone?
any cone, yeah...  i hate that word... sounds ugly, i do not like crumple either.
i always hate saying the word cheese, every time you get your picture taken... smile, say cheese.
i know i hate swiss cheese, the holes make me nervous.
what about the tree?
oh yeah, the tree.
oh, i know. I will show you where it is at, sweetie. are not you just so cute all bundled up like a cinnamon roll of christmas love.
cool.
which way?
go straight up about another mile... til we hit cherrypicker road and turn right... it am not far from there.
why are we stopping?
there is a dog in the road.
honk at him. scare him.
he will not move.
go around him.
there is not enough room.
then run him over, he will move.
no! he is one of god's creatures, he can not help it if he is dumb... I am just crazy about animals.
the animals have got nothing to do with it.
hey, he moved.
let's get going before that thing tries to eat the car or something.
that reminds me of a film i saw once of a guy who got out of his car at lion country safari to take a picture of a lion cub and got eaten by the lions.
oh yeah, i heard about that. i always thought it was bullshit.
no... yeah, they ripped him to pieces while his family watched from the car. the wife is screaming, the kids are crying. some dude in another car filmed the whole thing.
I would like to see that.
nice.
the lions were totally covered in this guy's blood... i think they ate his face off, tore open his rib cage, pulled his legs off... it was a wild scene.
things like that get a lot bloodier than ya think.
what was that?
fuck. i think we blew a tire.
do not even say it.
you got to be fucking joking.
god damn it, i knew this witch-hunt was fucking bullshit.
ok, let's relax. I will check it, maybe I am wrong. do not everybody freak out just yet.
I will help ya.
gee, ya think it would not be too much trouble.
i hope you fixed the spare like i asked ya.
yeah, i fixed it. well, i ain't... um, i can not remember. i think i took it out to fit the bags and forgot to put it back.
jesus christ, jerry.
well, technically i did what ya said.
you are a real fucking piece of work.
can i help you with something?
i was just wondering.
wondering what?
are you two gals all funny with each other?
what?
you know... a couple of queers.
do you believe this fucking girl?
i was just wondering, cause you got a pissy look about you... like a real pussy licking bitch.
well, i got some bad news and some bad news.
what?
tire's fucking gone crap on us, man. there is no saving it now.
and the spare is safely sitting in jerry's garage.
what the hell are you laughing about?
i just pictured the tire sitting in a chair watching tv.
oh, wonderful.  fucking psycho.
i guess I will try to back it out on the rim... at least to the main road.
if you keep going straight you can get back on the interstate... it is easier.
just back up.
i think we should go straight. i mean we know for a fact there am not nothing back that way, right?
fine. I will go straight.
what!
fine! I will go straight!
fuck! we are fucked!
turn that fucking radio off!
i think I am going fucking crazy.
i can not believe...
ok, whatever. let's go get your brother's truck. faster we get the truck, faster we get out of here.
ok.
I will go. it is my fault.
you said it, not me.
forget it. I will just go.
screw that, no way, i am not letting you go by yourself.
do not worry, I will be quick. just stay here, no sense everybody getting drenched.
i agree.
yeah, it will not take long and besides you sassy poodle girls will slow us down.
do not worry, I will be right back.
come on.
do not forget the flashlight, it is pretty dark out there.
thanks.
no problem.
how much further?
almost there... are you in a hurry or something?
well, yeah, kind of.
fuck, it is freezing.
hey, listen to this... i think this is related to our dr. satan.
oh, yeah.
yeah, in this book there is a chapter called self made freaks about how people would mutilate themselves in order to work in a freak show. it mostly talks about tattooed people and wild men of borneo and shit like that, but there is one mention of a single case where a woman was suspected of having her arms removed on purpose to become an arm-less wonder.
yeah, so how does that fit with the story of four morons with a flat tire looking for a dead tree?
it says, "records show that ellie thompson was born in 1914 of normal physical stature and lived a life of normal bearings, until such time that she was placed in the care of the willows state mental facility."
so.
now she was put in the nuthouse in 1930 at the age of 16.
why?
blah, blah, blah... it does not say, but she was released sometime in 1937, only to reappear as ellie bogdan, the arm-less wonder. says she, "criss-crossed the united states constantly in carnivals and freak shows until her death in 1946."
yeah?
these dates perfectly correspond with the time frame of our beloved dr. satan working at the looney bin. I will bet he amputated her arms.
so what?
i do not know, i just thought it was interesting.
you know what jerry, who really cares at this point?
i don't...  ...i just thought it was weird.
god damn it, i must be fucking crazy to let him go off with that crazy fucking bitch.
huh?
that stupid hillbilly slut.
oh, do not blow everything out of proportion.
you did not see the look she threw me. she is up to something.
yeah, jerry, she said some pretty fucked shit to us.
when?
when you were outside with bill.
she said we look like pussy lickers or some shit like that.
yeah, she said we looked queer.
the door's locked. I will got to go around... wait here.
ok.
christ, you scared the shit out of me.
aw, you am not seen nothing yet.
is your brother ready to go?
oh... yeah, he already left. we will wait inside, come on.
he left!
yeah, come on.
how long has it been?
i do not know... about half an hour.
what was that?
what? i did not hear anything.
wait... quiet. turn off the radio.
i do not hear anything.
shhhhhh, quiet.
i still don't.
turn on the headlights. see if anything is out there.
hold on, hold on! everybody calm down! it is the tow truck guy.
what!
jesus christ.
i think I am going to have a fucking heart attack.
ok lassies, i think it is time you get to gripping reality.
enough with the stupid voices.
so, you live here alone... i mean with just your brother?
no. there is a bunch a us 'round somewhere... i think mamma's sleepin'. she sleeps a lot, now... do you want marshmallows?
um, yeah sure, i guess.
you sure do a lot of guessing.
thank you.
you are welcome.
hey, um...  ...what kind of animal is that?
a dead one.
mmmmm, this is tasty.
am not the only thing tasty in this house.
i wonder what time it is. seems kind of late.
do not worry, sugar. it am not past my bedtime... are you flirting with me?
what? no, I am was worried that... i was just wondering what is taking so long.
oh. maybe r.j. got into a crash and killed everbody?
that is not something to joke about.
ok, sorry... maybe the great pumpkin ate 'em up.
hey, great they are back.
whoopie fucking doo.
hey, nice outfit billy bob.
thanks for coming to get us. little brother almost scared us to death.
dude, your chick's a little high strung.
excuse me, may i please use your phone?
bill, why do not you ask her... she is your special friend.
huh? oh, hi. you really do not have a phone?
no, none. i had one once, back in '57 maybe... i do not know. really am not nobody we wanna be jaw flapping at around here no more.
hey, maybe the guy with the tow truck could drive us to a phone.
his name is rufus, rufus jr., but we all call him r.j.
oh, right.
what do they call you, sweety?
um, I am jerry... that is bill... denise and mary.
yeah, maybe r.j. could just tow us and our car to the nearest garage.
i mean obviously we will compensate you for your troubles.
so, what brings you kids way out here, am not you got something better to do for halloween than wander around out here in the sticks?
well, i thought I would maybe take in a hoedown.
oh, really...  ...well, I am a pretty good dancer if you know what i mean... i bet i got a few moves you am not never seen.
i do not doubt that.
no, he is just joking. we do not really have any plans other than spending the night at my dad's house...  ...which is where we were headed when our car broke down.
that is nice.
yeah, i guess I will just help him hand out candy to the trick or treaters.
and I am going to help put the razor blades in the candy apples.
I will bet you are... you are a naughty little thing are not ya.
i was just kidding.
oh, i get it... i guess you think you are too good for the simple pleasures of halloween.
no, just a little too old.
oh really, well i hope something changes your mind some day.
tiny's home.
what about r.j.?
oh, he was already gone before i seen him... but tiny saw him and said he said he was going out to the yard to get a new wheel.
how long is that gonna take?
he should be back in a couple hours.
a couple hours!
can not tiny drive us to a phone?
tiny am not got no car, he am not even got a bicycle.
how is he get around out here?
he walks, duh.
fucking great.
i know you are my guests and welcome but I would please advise you to keep from cussing while in my house, thank you.
sorry.
well, even though i know it seems childish to you all. tonight is halloween eve and it special to us so you are all invited to stay for dinner.
thank you.
yes, thank you. thank you very much.
i hope to christ she does not expect us to wear these things.
whatever it is just do it. the more we play along the faster we will get the hell out of here.
really, now is not the time to make waves.
hey, I am just waiting for cousin itt to show up.
shhhhhh.
you sure you do not need any help in there?
no dear, I am fine. now what kind of host would i be if i put my guests to this kind of work.
ma, tiny's in.
go tell him to get your grandpa.
you will have to forgive tiny, he can not hear so much.
oh.
yeah, my poor baby. it is his daddy's fault. i mean earl was a good man... i mean he never hit me or nothing, but one day he just got up and went pure devil on us all.
what happened? oh, I am sorry, it is none of my business.
he tried to burn the house down, said it was possessed by the spirits. tiny was sleeping in the basement where the fire started. i do not think earl ever meant to harm us... but tiny was badly burnt, his ears were destroyed and most of his skin.
great. i thought i felt a certain attraction between mary and tiny soon as he walked in.
maybe. he is a real lady killer.
did not ya think, mary?
do not be such a fucking smart ass.
yeah, it is really your fault that we are stuck in this shithole in the first place.
oh, do not worry she did not get offended by what i said. you two got to lighten up... right, bill?
whatever, at this point all i care about is food. I am starving and i got a fucking killer headache.
hey, i asked you if you wanted some chicken.
did not look like chicken to me, more like fried pussy cat.
tasted pretty good.
I have been meaning to ask you, mrs... ummmm.
firefly.
firefly... mmmmm odd name. mrs. firefly, do you know anything about the legend of dr. satan?
grampa... watch the language.
i am not sure that you really need to know. it is better you go home still dreaming about your kitty cats and puppy dogs.
what is he so excited about?
yeah, showtime for what?
for the show. it is halloween eve and time for our show.
oh, you mean on tv.
no, no, no it is so much more special than that... you will see, you will be the first to ever see. i think this is something you will really love.
great.
this is way too fucked up for words.
i know the words... fucking psycho fucking bullshit, that is the words.
just grin and bear it.
that food...  ugh, i feel like I am going to puke.
check this out.
well, ya can not complain i never take you anyplace.
i can not believe what I am seeing.
i know, this is fucking nuts.
this is starting to make me real uncomfortable.
just sit back and enjoy the show.
what are you laughing at?
i do not know, i think he is funny.
this is not funny, it is twisted.
shit, I am all for being a sport, but this is ridiculous.
man, it is already ten thirty.
I am with denise, can not we just walk to someplace, this is getting fucking stupid.
negative. shit, we are so deep in the sticks we could walk for hours and find zero.
yeah, I would say at this point all we can do is just wait it out. there is nothing else.
i suppose. i mean they are obviously all bonkers, but i guess they are harmless.
you gotta be kidding me. this chick is wasted.
shhhhhh.
how much is a person supposed to stand?
quiet.
oh, I am sorry, bothering you? was i disturbing your viewing pleasure?
take that, you fucking slut!  fucking redneck whore!
you should not a done that.
why? you gonna do something about it?
yeah, I will do something.
I will cut your fucking tits off and shove 'em down your throat.
baby! stop!
come on, ma... this bitch's got it coming.
no, i told you...
i suggest you kids leave now.
do not worry, I am gone.
do not look back, just get in the car.
lock the fucking doors.
almost there.
jesus, you think she was really gonna cut you?
what are you doing!
i gotta open the gate.
drive through it!
it will not work.
why? why are you doing this?
doing what? messy up your day? well, fuck lady there are some bigger issues at hand... than your fucking have a nice fucking day bumper sticker shit!
where is bill?
well, bill... he is a good guy, he is been great help to me... a real blessing... i could not have asked for a better specimen. i mean you do not know what a dry spell I have had, total block...  ...total block... but bill he is ok.
where is he?
let's go see.
behold... the fish-boy!
this can not be real, this can not be real, this can not be real.
oh, it is real... as real as i want it to be, mamma...  ...look, see the magic in my brush strokes.
fuck you, you fucking freak!
oh, come now... we are all creatures of god and freaks in our own way...  ...but if you will notice...  right here, needs a little something, heh?
what are you doing?  ...no, stop... please, please.
you, my dear worm feeder, are about to become immortalized.
well, let's go see if the nut that runs this place can help us.
right.
officers, officers what can i do for you today? i am not fried up the birds yet... if that is what you are ring a ding dinging about.
what i need are some answers.
well, I will try but i do not know nothing 'bout nobody. I am a guy who likes to mind his own business, if ya get what I am saying.
you seen this girl? say... within the last 24 hours.
come on, get with the facts.
hmmmmmmmmm?
what did you see, who was she with, where were they going?
aw, she was with some nosey, smartass high-rise kids. they were poking around... asking stupid questions.
and...
and i gave 'em directions out there, up by the old farm row... i figured what is the harm. stupid kids probably going out to piss up a rope and got themselves turned around backasswards and got lost as shit.
is that all... think real hard.
yeah, they were not here but a few minutes, did not really have time to get as up close and personal as i do with most of the assholes that wander through here.
how is about you give me those same directions.
yeah, yeah, sure. you do not have to get all true grit all over my ass... I will give'm to ya... you can knock yourself silly for all i care.
enough talk, write.
boss, the way i see it is these kids probally stop off somewhere, bought a bunch of booze and are off getting shitfaced.
i hope you are right, but my guts are telling me different.
your spidey senses tingling.
yeah...  ...huh, what the hell are you talking about?
you know, your hyper sensitive spidey senses... like spider-man...  ...you know, like in the comics.
how old do you think i am? i know who the fuck spider-man is. get to your point.
you know, his senses start tingling... when he was approaching danger and shit.
i always favored the hulk.
hulk was dumb as shit.
aw, fuck.
what.
plates match.
call the chief... we found 'em.
you all having a halloween party tonight?
now, what makes you think that?
you all sure are buying a lot of holy water for two people.
yeah, well we like to get fucked up and do fucked up shit, you know what i mean?
yeah, yeah...  ...i like to fuck shit up.
I will bet you do... how much we owe ya...  ...goober?
actually it is g. ober... gerry ober, but the guys drew in the other o, fucking assholes.
great story goober, how much?
ummmm... two hundred and eighty-five dollars.
keep the change and get yourself a new name.
holy crap, thanks!
come on, bro. let's go.
hey, wait take this.
what is this?
a missing girl. i use'ta go to school with her, she just up and disappeared some day... real weird.
what did we here, georgie?
a vehicle registered to a william s. hudley.
holy jesus, somebody had themselves a field day beating the shit outta this thing.
yeah, no mercy here.
recover any bodies?
not yet.
shit, i wonder what these kids did to bring this much hell down on 'em.
just in the wrong place at the wrong time.
that is the understatement of the year.
yep, i suppose it is.
what did ya got there?
keys.
well christ boy, do not stand there like a prize dog dick with his butthole caught up a tree.
huh?
open up the trunk.
yes, sir.
god damn.
you find something, georgie?
yep, i found something.
you sure this guy's supposed to ride with us? seems kind of weird.
chief said pick him up and take him with us on our house to house. guy's an ex-cop, thinks he can help.
sounds like a bad idea to me, probally just get in the way.
yeah, well i guess it is tough to sit on the sidelines and wait when your own kid's missing... besides, am not no such thing as an ex-cop.
i guess not.
that must be him.
mr. willis?
yes, sir.
I am wydell... this is naish.
hey.
george willis...  ...any leads?
well, we were on our way out to run a check on a couple farmhouses out on the edge of town... closest thing we got to a lead at this point.
that is it?
well, all we know is the kids were headed out to a spot the locals call deadwood to play nancy drew with some local legend about this character everybody calls dr. satan.
dr. satan?
yeah it is horseshit, just some boogieman crap that the kids like to scare each other with.
anyway, there is not much else out that way... so, i figure maybe there is a chance the kids broke down and found their way over to one of the farms.
what about the body you found?
oh, yeah, you know about that? hmmm, that is a strange one.
local girl, karen murphy, been missing for a couple months, figured for a runaway.
fit the profile?
no, not really. good kid, never been in any trouble.
her part in this i can not figure... but i will.
christ, you know it is crazy...  i lived through so many other people's nightmares, you know. always cool and calm, but... but i never thought I would be the one needing help, ya know?
do not worry, we will find her.
let's hit the road, sooner we get a move on sooner we will find her.
christ, four kids could not just disappear.
no they couldn't, somebody had to see something.
my denise is a smart girl, she would not do anything stupid, and her boyfriend, he always seemed like a good kid.
I am sure there is a logical explanation.
i pray to god there is.
turn up this road.
where we headed?
I am going to see if anybody's home. you and mr. willis take a look around the grounds for any sign of anything.
right...  ...come on.
otis! otis! come quick, there is cops outside.
what! god damn, how many?
i do not know. i only saw one.
I am sure there is more than that... fucking pigs always travel in packs...  ...here, take this.
what should i do?
go down stairs and play nice... I am a going to go 'round back and handle things like i always fucking do.
shit, do not these packrat hillbillies throw anything away?
shhhh... you hear that?
yeah, i hear it... where is it coming from?
over here, inside the smokehouse.
we gotta break it open.
i am not got a warrant.
tell it to my daughter.
shit... fuck procedure.
well hello, officer.
excuse me, I am sorry for disturbing you this fine afternoon.
aw, you am not disturbing me, but it kind of looks like rain, do not ya think?
my name is lt. wydell, I would like to ask you a few questions.
questions? well, heck, I will tell you anything you want to know.
i appreciate your cooperation. I am looking for a missing girl...  ...this girl here, denise willis... have you seen her?
well, i... mmmmm... no, i am not seen her, sorry.
please, could i please come in and talk to you for a minute? maybe you could take a better look at the picture... might stir up something.
i um... no, i do not think so...
please, just a minute.
oh, alright... i guess i can trust you... being a man of the law and all.
thank you.
oh, you are very welcome... lord knows how i love a man in uniform.
jesus christ.
call wydell.
think... do any of these kids look familiar in any way?
no, i can not say that i ever seen 'em before...  ...he looks familiar, is he on tv?
wydell.
excuse me for a second.
over.
we found one.
fuck, go to the car... call for backup. tell 'em officer down.
right.
drink up, it is party time.
enjoy your last night...  ...where's otis?
oh, he is coming, he got something real special this year.
I am the one who brings the devil's brandy...
who is your daddy!
yes! I am the one who beats you when you are bad...
who is your daddy!
who is your daddy!
take his gag out, it is more fun with the screaming.
yeah, i like the screaming too... it is so much more exciting.
please do not kill us, please do not kill us.
please do not kill us, please do not kill us.
get in... now!
wait, i want to say good-bye.
bye sweety, we could of been great together.
please, let us go, we will not tell anybody.
aw, honey you know i can not do that.
that is true, otis... not that we are having a bad time, but...
well, go get her.
we have got get out of here, we got get out of here.
think, think. try to open the lid, try to kick a hole in the wood.
i can't... i can not move my arms. i hurt so much.
i know, but we can make it out of here. we can do it.
that was good babe, just keep doing that.
that is not me. i didn't... I am not doing that.
someone is out there...  ...help, we are in here!
help, help us.
