how many times do i have to say it?  i did not put the hit on little eddie... never had anything against that kooky chimp.  i actually found him, "endearing."
sure.  face down.  two endearing shots to the back of the head. that is your mark, man.  what did little eddie ever do to...
you are hitting rutherford's auction house.  easy as my brother's wife.  directions are in the bag.  just open the seventh floor safe and take out the thingie...
or you cut off my thingie. directions even your brother would understand.
hawk, you are a great thief.  got set up, did some time, nothing to be ashamed of.  do not give me a sonata about you always just really wanted to settle down, open a hardware store and sell spatulas...
if the mario brothers were not jersey's third largest family, I would say kiss my ass.  but considering your status, I will say slurp my butt.
what is your favorite sport, hawk?
baseball, why?
that is the first thing i did. smooch the ground and taste the freedom.  sorry i was late.  miss anything?
your timing, and your shoes, are impeccable...  good to see you, alex, been having a lousy day.
lousy day?  the man's getting out of prison and he is having a lousy day.  what, you missing out on the cell block water ballet pageant?  believe me, it is overrated.
looks like you have been expanding your...
do not say it, hawkins.  I am incredibly sensitive about my fucking figure.
my next word was gonna be "consciousness."  swear to god... tubby.
that is your definition of "hard?"
show off.  hey, boss tune.  "come fly with me."
three minutes, 51 seconds.
still do the puzzles, still know the running times of songs, and I will bet you are still the best damn cat burg--
not anymore.  now I am the laziest damn cat burg--i'm going to take it so straight that i will not tape a mets game without the expressed written consent of the national baseball league.
now that you are born again,what do you wanna do?  statue of liberty?  entertain some ladies? miss saigon tix?  seduce some women?  play nintendo?  bone some chicks?
come on, alex, let's just get to alex's.  your bar's the only place that is going to cheer me. god, I would kill for a damn cappuccino.  what the hell's a nintendo?
oh man, you still got a thing for those unmasculine european coffees? who is your buddy?
so mr. coffee, what went down outside the prison?
oh, not much.  mario brothers want me to do a job.
those dago-guinea-i can say this shit I am italian-wop motherfu--
ah, had the perfect amount of foam.  just get me to the bar... it is the one good thing in my life that will never change....
i did not know how to tell you.  a couple brokers stopped in for stoley spritzers one night.  next thing i know fast track digest votes us "watering hole of the month."  now, I am shopping for aqua salmon wallpaper.
i read about these people in newsweek.  where is all the regulars, crazy jeff cava, the todd sisters, indian joe?  where is ed kranepool's autograph?  captain bob's steering wheel?
hey, get this irritable guy a cappuccino.  i gotta go be a boss.
have a seat.  good to see you, buddy old pal...
the pleasure's all yours, officer gates.
why do you show your parole officer such disrespect? especially after i got you such a nice job.
what job?
the auction house, asshole.  one night's work and you are free like no ex-con's ever been.  no checking in with a shrink, no community service teaching retards how to play air hockey. it is a great deal, i can not lie.
the only thing you can not do is get sex for free.  i know i was in prison for like basically the 80's, but, call me daffy, are not you supposed to stop me from committing crimes.  you know, book-em-dano, call-for-backup, give-a-hoot-don't-pollute.
you would not be out if it was not for me!  i did dog and pony for you!  you think they would have let you out after what you did, you told the board members they looked like the three stooges...
how was i supposed to know they were women?  besides one of them was bald and kept saying "soitinly."
remember that guy in the cell next to you who hung himself?
yes.
remember that shoe you lost...
uh, yeah.  cut to the chase.
what else do you got under there ... i do not want to be rude, but this is all pretty lame.
that is the beauty.  it is bullshit, but i can make it stick because I am a good guy parole officer and you re a bad guy who is about to find out that there is a thin line between ex-con and escape con.
alex, did you know this ape was going to be here...
sure.  that is why his meatballs are made out of marinated chuck wagon.
hmmmm.....
yo pandora, quit hummm-ing... look at this.
it is captain bob's steering wheel! remember when the captain.....
hmmm, nasty little safe on the 7th.
the safe's a simpson 71.  last time i played the game, simpson only had a 40.
just means it will take you an extra 31 seconds to seduce.  you re still the best, i know it.
but you got three guards who... shit, what am i doing?  where is the want ads?  going to sell some spatulas.
hey, I am sorry, man.  I am putting out a fire with kerosene.
this is not funny.  I am not into this.  i...
there goes five seconds...my record's eighteen.
you are not...listening!
I am sorr--goddamn mario brothers. goddamn gates.  goddamn rutherford auction house.  by the way, how many seconds?
rutherford auction... that name...
alex!
do not wet your diapers.  I will have to change them.  "witchcraft." what is the running time?
whoa, you better cut a bigger hole than that.
hey, you promised......don't worry, I am wearing my girdle.
cameras?
no need.  guards' station's right there.
they record everything their video surveillance takes in...
yes, master-thief, i can see that. you said something about a plan...
you got about five minutes and change.
5:32.  "swinging on a star."
you know they invented something while you were inside.  called a watch.
"a mule is an animal with long funny ears."
"he kicks up at anything he hears.
"he can not write his name or read a book.  to fool people is his only thought."
"and though he is slippery, he still gets caught."
"and all the monkeys are not in the zoo."
"every day you meet quite a few."
the song's over!  come on! "you could be swinging on a star."
what am i doing here?  there are so many things i wanna do that are not this.  paint a lighthouse. kiss a woman in italy.
"you could be swinging on a star."
paint a woman in a lighthou--i do not want to steal a horse. life is...
hudson hawkins gets the chair of honor.  how about a gates-arita?  i used real hot dogs.
were not you the bartender at jonestown?
good job, not pretty, but good.
ah, the mafia, the cops; do i know how to party or what?
all this trouble for a horsey. i may not know art, but i know what i like.
you certainly do.
so when is that sebastian-cabot- buckingham-palace-looking- butlerhead getting here?
ta ta, hudson hawk.
too-do-loo, babe.
did i miss anything?
oh, not much.  gates just had his tonsils taken out.  the hard way.
geez, gates was killed.  who do we send the thank you note to?
the butler did it.  guy was a cross between alistair cook and a cuisinart. dude took mr. ed and humptied dumptied it over gates's head.  he said it was made by, get this, leonardo..
ah yes, a rare renaissance piece. da vinci's "sforza," an equestrian model of a never executed statue. i consider it to be the prize of tonight's auction of objets d'equestrian.  horse things.
okay, you got me, mr. pbs.
morning edition.  seems two thieves "attempted" to steal it last night, but thanks to three "courageous" guards, it will be ready for tonight.
"attempted."  at-tempt-ted!  I am not happy about having to steal that horse, but i do have my pride.  face it, when it comes to burglary, and sex, i....
boing.  uh, this i don t understand...
why try?
because I am tired of not understanding things.  cops, mafia, and butlers forcing me to bust my ass to steal something, which it turns out i really did not steal--it's fucked up.
you re not thinking of going to...
alex, my man, it is time to play a little offense.  where is your tux?
oh, the shit is going to hit the fa--
fantastic.  perfection.  the vatican extends its jealousy to the lucky bidder.
outbid by my own wench, quelle bummere.
poor baby..... here, bunny.
my god, that was bold of you, you did not have to do that...
forget about it--it was nothing-- anybody would have done the same thing--it's an impulse...
no, i meant you did not have to tackle me and rip my dress.  a polite push, perhaps?  a clear shout of "watch out, anna" would have done nicely...
excuse me, milady.  i would have flown over and carried you up to a pink cloud, but i left my cape at the cleaners.
thanks tough guy, thanks a lot. why was the guard chasing you?
because danger, doc, is my middle...
this is the worst night...
when it rains, it pours.  name's snickers.  the plane leaves in 40.
do not you just hate kids...
george, you promised.  no old cia/ new cia jokes...
i call them the mtv.i.a.  punks think bay of pigs is an herbal tea. they think the cold war involves penguins and...
do not i know you...
you just might.  I am the guy who tricked you into robbing a government installation and then had you sent to prison for it.  at the time, i was bald with a beard, no moustache, and i had a different nose, so if you do not recognize me, i will not be offended.
bastard, you are going to need another nose!
but I am not the type of guy to hold a grudge.
i used you as a diversion.  while you were getting captured upstairs, i was shredding documents in the basement.  deep down, i guess i was just jealous.  you were one incredible thief...
to what do i owe the dishonor of a reunion, you centrally intelligent scumsicle.
i want to make things up to you. that is why i got you this gig, doll.  hawk, my name's george kaplan and to quote the late, great karen carpenter, "we've only just begun."
three minutes, twenty-three seconds.  if you think I am doing another...
hush.  my employer wants a meeting.
employer?  the president?
no, somebody powerful.  oh.  look. what is that up there?
I am supposed to fall for that?
shucks.  guess not.
welcome to rome, sir.
yes way.
for those kind of wages, i could have built the factory in america! they are vietnamese, can not we just give them more bart simpson shirts? i hear depressing news like this and i want to commit genocide!  alfred, hold my calls.  so, hawk! the hawkster!  what do you think of the vehicle?
you could host american bandstand in here.  why did you duck at the auction, asshole?
because i did not want to get hurt, taterhead.
my life is not some deal.  i...
it is boston, mr. mayflower.
so hawkasaurus, i will not mince words...
whatever.  you own boardwalk, you own park place, you own the four railroads.  you think you are god. for all i know, you are probably right.  i just wanted to have a damn cappuccino, maybe play some nintendo after i find out what it is.  man, why did not you just buy the horse?  what am i saying, you did buy it...
oh... let's see.  there are organizations that think we wanted the "sforza" for reasons other than putting it in the da vinci museum we are building in vinci. hopefully, these organizations think our plan has been ruined with the explosion of our replica. if i seem vague, grand.  we want a low profile on this, that is why i got kaplan and the candy bars involved.  i helped george help the mario brothers and gates help get you out....
if you are pausing for a "thank you," give it up.  so boss, you going to tell me what the crystal piece inside the pony means?
way to go, alfie!  how many people did you break that thing in front of.   good help's hard to find.
i guess that is a no.
hawkmeister, we got you clothes, great hotel, and a 250,000 lira per diem.
that is two hundred dollars a day? so he can get a hooker and some tequila.  veto, darwin.
guess i know who wears the penis in this family.
for god's sake, chain this convict.
we want da vinci's sketchbook, what do they call it, the codex.
listen hawk, this might be hard to believe, but I am a regular joe.  i just want to be happy and happiness comes from the achieving of goals. it is just when you make your first billion by the age of 19, it is hard to keep coming up with new ones.  but now finally i got my new goal.  world domination.  with your help...bunny....quit that!
bunny, ball-ball!  bad bunny!
anybody have a cigarette?  but seriously, do me a favor and concorde me back to prison.  i do not care anymore.  i hope you have the receipts for the threads.
you go back, you will not be alone. you will have a diabetic barkeep cellmate.  you are still young enough to have fun shanking child molesters for a pack of smokes, but "alex" will go in knowing that the next time he gets out it will be to attend his own funeral. depressing.
you would not risk the dime to call the police.  you have no proof.
tough guy.  what are you--how's your head.
yes, and my giraffe loves it, too...
as you know, the da vinci codex, has lived in the vatican for centuries and will continue to live here for centuries more.
that is what you theenk.
question, sir?   his untiring pen predicted the airplane, the submarine, the bicycle, the helicopter, and even the tank.
come on, this stuff will knock you out.  have you ever had the feeling you were being followed, mr. bond.
never, why do you ask?
whoa.  name's hawkins, eddie hawkins. my nickname's hudson hawk, but do not call me hudson, not even as a joke. the nuns at st. agnes called me that and they are the ones who helped make me what i am today. not a compliment...
sure hudson.  are you going to tell me why you did that back there or are you going to blame it on dumbo?
could you believe that crazy elephant?
whoa, part 2.  does it go to times square?
delivers up to ten at night.  the pope has an obsession with his easter seals.  it is actually not that an unusual set-up.  the secret passageway on the other hand....
the vatican is made of constant mysteries meant to be enjoyed, not explained.
nice.  but right out of our brochure.
oh, you read that.
actually i wrote it.  it is a good sentence.  it can apply to people.
you are not an unmysterious thang yourself.
i do not steal stuffed elephants from little girls.  and i buy my own clothes.  my life's a little boring...
god, i wish i could say the same thing.  what about having a nice, dull dinner with me tonight. scrabble, knock-knock jokes, anecdotes about famous dead italians....
I will bring my entire repertoire...
and I will bring my entourage...
secret passageways do not mean as much as they used to.  there is a place two blocks east of here. enzo's.  say 10:30.
said.
did he mention the mayflowers?
no, your eminence.  i think he is going to steal the codex, as early as next week.
attempt, you mean.  the vanity of this man, hudson hawk.  the vatican has foiled the advances of pirates and terrorists.  we will not lie down for some schmuck from new jersey.  must you flirt with him so realistically?
that is the best kind.  a wise woman once said "polite conversation is rarely either."
let me be the one to quote scripture.  ....as an agent of our organization, you are put in awkward situations.  just remember, hudson hawk is an evil, evil man.
yeah.  the big e.
hawk, hawk, hawk.  enjoying italy?  i always had a soft spot for rome.  did my first barehanded strangulation here.  communist politician.
why george, you big softie...
god, i miss communism.  the red threat.  people were scared, the agency was respected, and i got laid every night.
you know kaplan, if you were not the slimiest pinata of shit that ever lived, I would feel sorry for you.
good news, bud, the mayflowers have moved up the time-table. you are hitting the vatican to-night.
tonight?  you are whacked.  the timing's off, I am underequipped damnit, i have a date!
grapple, biker's bottle, hairspray, black turtleneck, pocket fisherman, acid, collapsible yardstick, softball, and 72 stamps. gee stud, this is going to be some date.  no harvey's bristol cream?
snickers, make the list happen. oh and it is one thing to play hide and seek with the mayflower's pathetic staff, but we are sore losers.  I have put jumper cables on the nipples of children and not always in the line of duty.
thanks for sharing.
we blow up space shuttles for breakfast.  you and your friend alex would be a late afternoon triscuit.
if you do anything to my friend...
yeah, right.  by the way, as long as I am getting things off my chest, I am the one who killed your little monkey.  made it look like a mafia hit.  did it for fun. ciao.
oh hudson, i was worried you were not going to drop by....
i never break a date.  scout's honor.
come on, pierre, steak-bur-ger, fren-n-ch fries.  this is france, you gotta have french.....
actually we are in italy, snickers, she said as if it made a difference.
italy, france, moscow.  they all just wanna be nebraska.  old man kaplan thinks since communism is dead, we got nothing to do.  man, democracy is not free elections. we got to teach the world that democracy is big tits, college football on saturdays, eddie murphy saying the word "fuck" and kids putting their hands down garbage disposals on "america's funniest home videos."
damn baby, when is the last time you had a vacation...jesus, i got to get out of this job.  if my mom knew her daughter assassinated the leader of the anti-apartheid movement....
quit bitching, you got the employee of the month plaque for that shit...ah to be in pari-is and in love.
this is bueno.  they had the worst ketchup in prison.....uh...
prison?
i was the warden?
how long were you in?
let's just say, i never saw e.t.
wow, you were "in the joint." "doing hard time."  it is funny, but that excites me.  i seem to have a thing for sinners.
i seem to have a thing for sinning. sinning.  check please....
what have you been doing?
uh....old badminton injury.
tickles, tickles, tickles.
oh, I am so sorry...
I am sorry.  i can't.  i....
hey now, outside of a very friendly dog this morning, it is been a slow decade.  i do not make love every ten years, i get a little cranky.
it is also been a long time for me.  i--
catholic girls are scary...
somebody robbed the vatican.
oh.  no.
it is not what you think.  okay, maybe it is....
you really went and did it.  with one day, not even a day, of planning, you did it.  nobody does it better, hudson.  you started the week stealing the sforza and you ended it swiping the codex.
wha--
what are your plans for the weekend?  hoisting away the colosseum?  tell me, did the devil make you do it or did darwin and minerva mayflower?
for two years, I have been tracking the mayflowers' peculiar interest in three da vinci pieces.  their sforza replica was as fake as the "gas leak" that supposedly destroyed it.
does everyone in the world know more than me?  jesus, I am just some guy who happens to be good at swiping stuff.....lifted a piece of licorice when i was one and a half.  who knew it would lead... they even got the cia involved!
the c.i. what?  god, no...
ooh, i guess i do know something here's looking at you, kid...
this does not taste like cappuccino.
oh, i must have put too much ethyl-chloride in it.
way to go, anna.
when the mayflowers find out we have the codex, they are going to want to make a deal...
and then we will arrest those greedy pigs... is that it?
it is the site of their new museum and we are taking it over.  operation deflower mayflower is going full speed ahead.
oh lord.... the only reason i ask is that hudson, uh, mr. hawk, hawkins, had some "neat" things to say about darwin, minerva, and you. basically that you are part of the same car pool.
anna.  anna.  anna.  if that were true, almond joy would have handed you your heart right after you handed me the codex. now, get some sleep.  kit kat...
cat got his tongue?
actually he never told us what it was.
with all due respect to that great blouse, why did not i cut out her heart?
close call, but she is our only way of keeping tabs on that damn mysterious vatican organization. hawk, it is time to go to the principal's office....
have not you ever seen, like david niven?  you know tiptoe in, tiptoe out.
like a "cat", one could say.
no, let me!
i do not care.
get away from there, convict!
just browsing.  do not touch me....
come to think of it there is a part of your body that you will not need for your next job...
hey, guys, I have always wanted to sing like franki valli and the other seasons, but come on....
big girls do not cry-i-eye.
two minutes, 35 seconds.  damnit, I am involved in this thing, so i just wanna know what this thing is. i wanna be treated as an adult.
hit me with your best shot.
i betrayed a man.  a good man.  an innocent man.  a thief.
anna, what are you trying to say...
he came into a world where crime is a legitimate business tactic and a legitimate government procedure.  but he knew right and wrong.  oh, and we kind of messed around...
"messed around" messed around?  i know-- i do not want to know.  first base?  second base?  stop me when I am getting warm...
a little petting is not the issue!
sorry.  seventeen hail marys and five minutes outside.
you got it.  operation deflower mayflower is a bad joke and I am the punchline.  i thought we were using the cia to help us to get mayflower, but really the cia was using me to keep us away from mayflower.
oh, why could not i be the cardinal in charge of catering.... if the mayflowers get the three sections of da vinci's crystal and his instructions for the gold machine-- aie-yi--do we got anything?  what of alex, hawk's friend, where is his loyalty?
I am going to find out.
I am sorry for losing it back there, but you must remember, sister, you have vows to god as well as a mission to the world.
i know, i know, your eminence, just say "god go with me."
god go with you, sister.
so, captain hawk, in one of your paws you got a gold bar worth about 8 thou.  in the autre, you got lead that will not get you gelato.
surely a master-thief like you can tell the difference.
cool, is not it?  weight, feel, mal1eability, they are all but identical.  on the periodic chart of elements, they are but one proton apart.  great minds worked for centuries to turn worthless into priceless.
alchemy.
alchemy!  is the business term of the 90's, my man!  minerva read about it in an airline magazine about four years ago.  i dumped some lira into research... shazam, we come across a diary by one of da vinci's apprentices detailing la machine de oro, the gold machine for those at home, and the rest is about to become history.  money is not everything, gold is.  fuck blue chip stocks!  fuck t-bills! fuck junk bonds!  i got the real deal!  money will always be paper but gold will always be gold!
market crashes.  bomb drops. greenhouse effect affects.  we will still be the richest, most powerful people in the world.  in 1992, europe is coming together to become one business superpower.  it is one party we would love to poop.
well, that said, the last ingredient in the recipe is in, get this, you are going to die, the kremlin.
sure.  the kremlin.  makes sense. the kremlin.  why not?  listen, this is all too indiana jones and the lost city of king tut for me, man.  throw me in jail and go ahead, just try and throw alex...
jail, you asshole!  our foot soldiers will blow your brains out!  bunny, ball-ball!
I will torture you so slowly you will think it is a career!  I will kill your family, your friends, and the bitch you took to the prom!
you want an address on that last one?
bunny, not you too?
you have got a dilemma, tiger.  i think i know what is going to help you solve it.
oh thank god, you are dead...
it was so beautiful!  when the blanks went off, they...
you bastard.  you fucked my freedom for a lousy job.
but i said i was sorry....
no sweat, alex, you only made the biggest mistake of my life.  what was your per-diem?
do not act like you have never committed a crime before, hawkins?  i know, i made call, when anna tracked me down i...
hudson, do not you understand...
and you, dr. cappucino, you are lucky i do not hit women, assuming you are a woman.  I am not taking anything for granted anymore.
i-work-for-a-covert-vatican-humanitarian- organization.  the-cia-made-a-fool-of-me. i-care-for-you...
oh.  well, what is this?
where did you get this?
you know, the place where you gave the bad guys the codex.... the mayflower museum.
it is from the machine.  all they need is the crystal to run it and they have 2/3 of it already.  we can not let that happen.
you are saying you want us to beat them to the crystal and save the world from financial disarray.
something like that.
well, forget about it.  hawk and i are going to rio.  we are hurt, we are tired, and a hero am not nothing but a sandwich.  right, buddy?...
hudson, god's given you a gift for cat burglary, you can t just...
you better believe i can.  I am sick of people telling me what i have to do.
it is that kind of selfish attitude that...
selfish attitude?  I am just some guy who wants a little nap and a cappuccino for when he wakes up, not too much foam...
you re not "some guy" anymore, hudson.  right now, you are the only guy.  without your help, i....
that was beautiful.
i laughed, i cried.
rio, alex?  after all they have done to...hey, these tickets are for moscow!
damn travel agency.  that kremlin thing is in moscow, is not it?
lucky for us, the da vinci is located in a wing of the kremlin that they used to throw the miss ukraine pageant and stuff.  it will have the least number of guards....
as for our plan of action, anybody'd be insane to go in from the ground floor...
we are going in from the ground floor.
geez, this art treasures room looks like a burnt diaphragm.
hey, do not take your disguise so seriously.
uh, yeah.  guess I am a wee bit nervous.  I am sorry i could only score clergy passports.
fits my new image.  a thief for the masses.  this is one job I am not going to feel guilty about enjoying.  gum.
the security's actually not that severe.
it does not have to be.  everybody knows that if you mess with the kremlin, you will end up in a siberian gulag eating your own fingernails.
shwoof, that makes me feel better. i can not believe this is the iron curtain.  all the guy at airport customs wanted to know was "who shot j.r.?"
you sound disappointed.
yeah, i mean, come on, going through the iron curtain is supposed to be crawling underneath barbed wire, it is supposed to be strangling a guard...
delivery entrance.  low security.
gum.
count of three?
why not just go now?
okay.
eighth room down, babe...
guards come exactly every three minutes....
"oh, we am not got a barrel of money.
"maybe we are ragged and funny."
now that is a lock.
do not worry, we will get it...
i look at you soviet people and i feel... pity... superiority.  most of your life, your government has told you that capitalism turns people into robots who would rather eat microwave sushi, naked in the back of a cadillac than hear the laughter of children.
we are here to say, your government was right.
so let's get busy.  have some fun and make some deals.
"oh this lock is a pain in the bu-utt"
"how'd we ever get such in a ru-utt"
this is the room above the art treasures room.  the lock is a natalya z-z, first created...
snickers, baby, i love you like a brother, but really, who cares? silencer bomb...
that was close....
anna, i think you better stay....
you can be lookout!.....  take alex's gun.
"we all had our quarrels and parted..."
"but we will be the same as we started...
what the hell....
you are supposed to be dead!
I am a ghost.  boo.
i do not want to sound immature, but we were here first...
can not you see the mayflowers double-crossed you...
they may be scum, but if i get the da vinci model back, then we will be roasting weenies on the beach.
i do not think you will appreciate their choice of weenie.
i can not believe this.  I am in fucking russia, or do i have to say, the fucking soviet union and I am shooting a non-bolshevick.  i never thought I would say "i'm just in this job for the money."  sad. any last immature quips?
no.  but why do you let butterfinger keep those blood stains on his shirt?
alex, are you....
i can not believe you did not notice. my weight.  i lost ten pounds in rome
you are a reed, man.  i got to get anna.  hang in there...
what a pleasant surprise.  you are probably wondering...
but you are going to tell us anyway...
i hate a man with a sense of humor.  while you corn dogs were comparing the lengths of your masculinity, we obtained the helicopter the new fashioned way: a thoroughly corrupt business deal.
if you think you are getting past me...
do not be stupid...they...
bastard!  if you were a true american.
just shut up and hit me!
damnit, i hate this!  I am a cat burglar!  nobody said anything about this fight-to-the-death shit.
too bad.
i knew it!  i told you it was a fake.
that new-york-italian-father- made-twenty-bucks-a-week-son- of-a-bitch.  what was our bet?  a million?
million five, lover...
get 'em.  they went down the hallway.
let's just forget it, i mean...
get em....
why does this have to be so hard...
tell me about it...
oh hudson...
i told you not to call me hudson. the only people who called me that were the nuns at...
oh hudson, I am a sister of the catholic church as well as an agent.
this is too bad to be false.
welcome back to vinci.
last rites, sister?
you killed a friend.  why should i help you go for the gold?
it will take a couple of years of steady production, but I will flood the market with so much gold that gold itself, the foundation of all finance, will lose its meaning. brokers, economists, and fellow entrepreneurs will drown in the saliva of their own nervous breakdowns.  markets will crash- crash.  financial empires will crumble-crumble.
except yours-yours.  the goal of world domination.  well, if you put it that way, minnie.  how can i resist?
you can't, convict!  you are just a shmoe!  every shmoe has the fantasy the planet revolves around them.  it rains, car crash stops traffic, you say "how could this happen to me?"  it is a natural inclination.  but for i, this is not a fantasy, it is reality! you are on my planet!  you walk around the corner for coffee, out of my sight, you do not fucking exist!  the lives of shmoes like you have meaning only in relation to the rich, to the powerful, to me!
if you pull this off, i can not promise i will not kill you.  i mean, who we trying to kid?  but i will spare the flying nun here....
and to think i thought you were evil incarnate in pumps.
i killed some lovable working class italian-diabetic, but you killed the most significant male figure of the decade and a kind, gentle lover.  so do not play with me.
i hope you know what....
trust leonardo....
wha.....
da vinci made the real directions in a secret script that i decoded. the way the machine is running now, the gold will produce too quickly, clog, and the machine will shut itself down.  is not it wonderful?
yeah, but what would happen if that little mirror came out of the crystal.
wha -- you do not want to know...
i wanna know...
holy sh-h--things are going to get very interesting, very fast. da vinci would be proud of you.
how.
you are unemployed, alfie.  boss is dead.  her plan is over.
my plan is just beginning.  I will forgive you for denying me the pleasure of slaughtering my boorish employers, but I am afraid the birth of the new british empire can have no witnesses!
ooh-kay...
have i ever told you the world is beautiful...  I would really like to play nintendo with you, or something...
hudson, I am afraid I am sticking with god.  but you are a close second, tough guy.  what is that smile?
i got my planet back.
