you are single?
yes.
where were you trained?
at the memorial hospital -- here in ottawa.
they did not teach it at memorial hospital.  i had my suspicions, though, about the directress of training.
very well.  that means that you have met all mr. holland's requirements.  now, as to salary -- it is quite good -- two hundred dollars a month.
that is good.  but I would like to know more about the case.
I am afraid I am not able to tell you much. only that the patient is a young woman -- the wife of a mr. paul holland with whom we do considerable business.
that will mean another interview, will not it?
no, this is quite final.  you see, mr. holland is a sugar planter.  he lives in st. sebastian island in the west indies.
the west indies?
a year's contract -- a trip with all expenses paid -- that is not so bad, you know.
but it is so far away...
that is rather nice, is not it?
it is not beautiful.
you read my thoughts, mr. holland.
it is easy enough to read the thoughts of a newcomer. everything seems beautiful because you do not understand.  those flying fish -- they are not leaping for joy. they are jumping in terror.  bigger fish want to eat them. that luminous water -- it takes its gleam from millions of tiny dead bodies. it is the glitter of putrescence.  there is no beauty here -- it is death and decay.
you can not really believe that.
times gone, fort holland was a fort...now, no longer.  the holland's are a most old family, miss.  they brought the colored people to the island-- the colored folks and ti-misery.
ti-misery?  what is that?
a man, miss -- an old man who lives in the garden at fort holland - with arrows stuck in him and a sorrowful, weeping look on his black face.
alive?
no, miss.  he is just as he was in the beginning -- on the front part of an enormous boat.
you mean a figurehead.
if you say, miss.  and the enormous boat brought the long-ago fathers and the long-ago mothers of us all - chained down to the deep side floor.
but they came to a beautiful place, did not they?
if you say, miss.  if you say.
it seems we are having dinner by ourselves, miss connell.  but i may as well introduce everyone to you, anyway.  there -- in the master's chair, sits the master -- my half-brother paul holland.  but you have already met him.
yes -- on the boat.
and that chair --  is the particular property of mrs. rand -- mother to both of us and much too good for either of us. too wise, in fact, to live under the same roof. she prefers the village dispensary.
is she a doctor?
no -- she just runs the place. she is everything else -- amazing woman, mother.  you will like her.
i like her already.
and that --  is my chair.  and this --  is miss connell -- who is beautiful.
thank you.  but who sits there?
my brother's wife.
-- but, you are an american?
i went to school in buffalo.  paul went to school in england.
i wondered about your different accents.  I am still wondering about your names -- rand and holland.
we are half-brothers.  paul is mother's first child.  when his father died, she married my father. dr. rand, the missionary.  and you know what they say about missionaries' children.
as a matter of fact, it means the sugar syrup is ready to be poured off.  you will have to excuse me.
of course.  it is been nice of you to spend this much time with me.
do not worry.  i was not missed.  the only important man here is the owner.
mr. holland?
yes, the redoubtable paul.  he has the plantation, and i, as you must have noticed, have all the charm.
i do not know.  he spoke to me last night on the boat. i liked him very much.
ah, yes, our paul, strong and silent and very sad -- quite the byronic character. perhaps i ought to cultivate it.
perhaps you ought to get on to the mill.
it will wait.
have the servants made you comfortable?
yes, thank you.
can not i take it for you?
no, thank you.  tomorrow's time enough for you to begin work.
i heard someone crying -- a woman --
a woman crying?  no one's been crying here.
why was the maid crying?
I am not sure i can make you understand.  you know what this is?
a figure of st. sebastian.
yes.  but it was once the figurehead of a slave ship.  that is where our people came from -- from the misery and pain of slavery. for generations they found life a burden. that is why they still weep when a child is born -- and make merry at a burial.
good morning, miss.
thank you for waking me.
i did not want to frighten you out of your sleep, miss.  that is why i touched you farthest from your heart.
but I am miss jessica's nurse, alma. you do not have to do that for me.
i know, miss.  but i like to do it. i like to tend for miss jessica and i want to tend for you.  you settle right back, now, and I will mix you your coffee.
thank you, alma.
miss jessica used to say this is the only way for a lady to break her fast -- in bed, with a lacy cushion to bank her head up. if you would only seen her, miss connell. she looked so pretty.
she must have been beautiful.  what happened to her, alma?
she was very sick and then she went mindless, miss.
we will see if we can not make her well, alma, you and i.
i do my best.  every day i dress her just as beautifully as if she was well.  it is just like dressing a great, big doll.
what is this?
a puff-up, i call it.  but miss jessica always says "brioche."
looks like an awful lot of breakfast -- i do not know whether I will be able to get away with it.
i made it clear in my letter to the company.  this is not a position for a frightened girl.
i am not a frightened girl.
that is hard to believe, after what happened last night.
if i were as timid as you seem to think, mr. holland, i would not have gone into the tower in the first place.
and what is so alarming about the tower, miss connell?
nothing -- really.  but you must admit it is an eerie sort of place -- so dark --
surely nurses are not afraid of the dark?
of course not!
a mental case?
I am sorry...
why should you be?  my wife is a mental case.  please keep that in mind, miss connell -- particularly when some of the foolish people of this island start talking to you about zombies.
does she suffer?
i do not know.  i prefer to think of her as a sleepwalker who can never be awakened -- feeling nothing, knowing nothing.
she can never be cured?
I have never heard of a cure.
is this disease common in the tropics?
fortunately, not.  this is my first experience with it as a physician. but i have seen half-witted field hands -- whom the other peasants call zombies.  i am sure they suffer from a similar destruction of spinal nerves as the result of high fever.
i prepared these for you last night, miss connell.
thank you.
you did not find your patient so frightening in the daylight, did you?
mrs. holland must have been beautiful ---
many people thought her beautiful.
i suppose so.  yes.
and charming?
I have never given it much thought.
don't.  it will save you a great deal of trouble and other people a great  unhappiness.
where do you think you are going?
it is my day off.
but what in the world can you do with a day off in st. sebastian?
i was just beginning to wonder. are not there shops, restaurants and things?
well -- and things -- might be a better description of what you will find.  I would better come along and show you the town.
but do not you have to work?
by a curious coincidence, it is my day off, too.
bring me another, ti-joseph.  i have to keep the lady entertained.
it must be hard work entertaining me if it requires six ounces of rum.
what in the world are you talking about?  six ounces -- ?
higher mathematics.  two ounces to a drink -- three drinks, six ounces.
how do you know there is two ounces in a drink?
I am a nurse.  i always watch people when they pour something.  i watched ti-joseph and it was exactly two ounces.
listen, did i tell you that story about the little mule at the plantation -- the little mule and clement?  let me tell you.  it is one of the funniest stories --
wait. i want to listen.
do not let it bother you so, wes.
did you hear what he sang?
i wish i had not heard --
why?  everybody else knows it. paul saw to that.  sometimes i think he planned the whole thing from the beginning -- just to watch me squirm.
that does not sound like him.
that is right -- he is playing the noble husband for you, is not he? that will not last long.
I would like to go now, rand.  would you mind taking me home?
one of these days he will start on you, the way he did on her.  "you think life's beautiful, do not you, jessica?  you think you are beautiful, do not you, jessica?"  what he could do to that word "beautiful." that is paul's great weapon -- words.  he uses them the way other men use their fists.
i think you need some help.
I am afraid so.
ti-joseph?
i really intended going out to the fort and meeting you long before this, miss connell.  I am mrs. rand -- wesley's mother.
oh, mrs. rand --
come, come, do not tell me how sorry you are that i should meet you this way.  I am even a little glad that wesley's difficulty brought us together.
believe me, mrs. rand, he does not do this often. this is the first time I have seen him --
nonsense, child!  i know wesley's been drinking too much lately.  i know a great deal more about what goes on at fort holland than you would think.  i know all about you -- that you are a nice girl, competent and kind to jessica.  the fort needs a girl like you.  but now we have got to get you back there.  I will walk you back and stay over night.  it will be a nice change for me.
thank you, mrs. rand.  i think you are every bit as nice as wes says you are.
so -- he says I am nice.  he is a nice boy, too, miss connell, a very nice boy.  but I am worried about his drinking.
I would love to.
use your influence with paul.  ask him to take that whiskey decanter off the dinner table.
I have no influence with mr. holland.
try it -- you may have more influence than you think.
good morning, miss connell.
good morning.
i heard about your little misadventure yesterday, miss connell.  on your first "day off," too.
well, i had a good time up to a point.
wesley can be very entertaining.
yes, he can.  but I have been wondering -- you know if you could leave the whisky decanter off the table --
it is always stood there, miss connell.  i can remember it in my grandfather's time and my father's. I am afraid it will have to remain.
but for wes -- it must be a temptation to him.
I have no sympathy with people who can not resist temptation.
still, i feel you should remove the decanter.  wes is not an alcoholic yet, mr. holland. but as a nurse i can tell you that it will not be long before he is.
I am afraid the decanter will have to stay where it is.  i engaged you, miss connell, to take care of my wife, not my brother.
you do not seem very disturbed by it.  I have always thought voodoo was something to be scared of: the drums sounded in the hills and everybody was frightened.
I am afraid it is not very frightening.  they have their songs and dances and carry on and finally, as i understand it, one of the gods comes down and speaks through one of the people.
i heard you playing.
i often do.
i know what you went through tonight.  i kept thinking of what you said: that all good things died here, violently.
why did you come in here?
i do not know.  i wanted to help you. and now that I am here, i do not know how.
you have helped me.  i want you to know I am sorry i brought you here. when i thought of a nurse, i thought of someone hard and impersonal.
i love fort holland.
what you saw tonight -- two brothers at each other's throat and a woman driven mad by her own husband?  do you love that?
you did not drive her mad.
did not i?  i do not know.  that is the simple truth of it.  i do not know.
all that you say comes down to the same thing.  you are asking me to pass a sentence of life or death on my own wife.
insulin shock treatment is an extreme measure, mr. holland. but -- as miss connell pointed out when she suggested it -- this is an extreme case.
you admit that it is terribly dangerous. why do you advise it?
I have worked with it.  I have seen cures. it is at least a hope.
it is the very danger itself that makes the cure possible, mr. holland.  the insulin produces a state of coma, a stupor.  the patient is revived from the coma by a violent overwhelming nerve shock. that nerve shock can kill -- but it can also restore the damaged mind.
i do not know -- i do not know--
it is a hard decision to make -- but yours is only a technical responsibility...
technical responsibility, real responsibility -- what difference does it make?  jessica lives -- or she dies. that is what we are talking about!
well?
she is alive, mr. holland -- that is all.
do not take it to heart, betsy.
i imagined this so differently...
I have been waiting here for hours, trying to imagine jessica well again -- wondering what I would feel. i could see jessica as she used to be, i could hear her say in that sweet mocking voice, "paul, darling..."  the whole thing beginning all over again...
and instead,  i came -- bringing you nothing.
instead -- you come, with sympathy, betsy, and a generous heart. do not forget that.  do not call it nothing.
things so bad, nobody can help -- not even doctor maxwell.
doctors and nurses can only do so much, alma.  they can not cure everything.
doctors that are people can not cure everything.
what do you mean -- "doctors that are people"?
there are other doctors...yes, other doctors...better doctors...
where?
at the houmfort.
that is nonsense, alma.
they even cure nonsense, miss betsy.  mama rose was mindless.  i was at the houmfort when the houngan brought her mind back.
you mean mama rose was like mrs. holland?
no.  she was mindless but not like miss jessica.  but the houngan cured her.
are you trying to tell me that the houngan -- the voodoo priest -- could cure mrs. holland?
yes, miss betsy.  i mean that.  the houngan will speak to the rada drums and the drums will speak to shango and damballa.
some of this native nonsense. the houngan has his prescription and dr. maxwell and i have ours.
you have never said anything about voodoo before, mrs. rand.
have not i?  i suppose i take it for granted. it is just part of everyday life here.
you do not believe in it?
a missionary's widow?  it is not very likely, is it?
i do not mean believe, like believing in a religion.  i mean, do you believe it has power?  do you think it could heal a sick person?
frankly, my dear, i did not expect anything like this from a nice level-headed girl.  what are you driving at?
i heard the servants talking about someone called mama rose. they said she had been "mindless"...
her son drowned.  she brooded until her mind was affected. all the houngan did was coax her out of it with a little practical psychology.
mrs. rand.
wait. do not draw any conclusions. let me explain.
but, mrs. rand --
i knew you would come. and i knew I would have to come up here and talk to you. i could not let you go back without any word. i came to tell you again -- jessica cannot be cured.
but how did you get here? what are you doing here?
i asked you to let me explain. it is a long story.  and not an easy one --
-- and when my husband died i felt helpless. they disobeyed me -- things went from bad to worse. all my husband's dreams of good health, good sanitation, good morals for these sweet and gentle people seemed to die with him.  then, almost accidentally, i discovered the secret of how to deal with them. there was a girl with a baby -- again and again i begged her to boil the drinking water. she never would. then i told her the god, shango, would be pleased and kill the evil spirits in the water if she boiled it. she boiled the water from then on.
but you did not have to come up here.
perhaps not.  but i did come here and i found it was so simple to let the gods speak through me. once started, it seemed such an easy way to do good.  i should have known there was no easy way to do good, betsy.
i wanted to help you.
help me? how?
i took mrs. holland to the houmfort.  i thought they might cure her.
you have deliberately endangered mrs. holland's life.  there is no telling what you may have started with this insanity.  why did you do it?
i told you.
because you wanted to give my wife back to me?  why should that mean anything to you?
you know why.  you saw it the other night at the piano.  you turned away from me.
what i saw the other night, i did not dare believe, betsy --
you think i love jessica and want her back. it is like you to think that -- clean, decent thinking.
she was beautiful.
i hated her.
but i assure you, father walters, miss connell had no idea of the consequences when she went there.
paul, we are not trying to blame miss connell.  it is not a question of blame.  it is a question of what we are to do with jessica.  the commissioner is very concerned.
well, jeffries, why come to us about it?  why do not you go up to the houmfort and put a stop to the drumming and dancing -- that is what causes all the trouble.
no.  you are quite wrong.  right here's the seat of the trouble. mrs. holland has become an object of speculation and religious interest to these people.  it is revived all their old superstitions -- zombies -- and that sort of nonsense.
i would not worry too much, commissioner.  it will pass.  we have had this sort of thing before.
this is something else.  they are curious.  curiosity and religious fervor make a strange and explosive mixture.
I am quite sure nothing will happen, doctor.
if i were as sure as you, mrs. rand, we would not be here.  I will tell you quite bluntly: for the peace of the island and possibly for her own safety, we have come to ask you to send mrs. holland away to st. thomas.
to the asylum?
i believe there is a kinder name for it, wesley. at st. thomas, it is called the institute for mental therapy.
it does not matter what you call it. i can tell you right now jessica is not going!
wesley!
i am afraid, wesley, he has that right.  and i will have to urge him to use it.
i tell you he has not and he would not dare use it if he had.
why?
because he drove jessica insane -- deliberately -- coldly!
that could be a serious accusation, rand, if it were not a foolish one.
foolish?  tell them how foolish it is, paul -- tell them!
i still can not believe it paul -- that you would not say a word in your own defense.
i have no defense.  so far as i know -- it is true.
you can not believe that.  you do not know what viciousness it would take to drive a person mad.  you are not vicious or cruel, paul.
how do you know I am not?  i was cruel to jessica.  when i got to know her -- when i found out how empty and ungenerous she was, there was something about her -- something smooth and false -- that made we want to hurt her.
i can understand that.  everyone feels that way about someone.
no.  it is not just how i felt toward jessica.  I have been cruel to even you.
you wanted to warn me...
the night you came to me in this room -- to comfort me, to help me -- i turned you away.
don't, paul -- do not doubt yourself -- do not make me doubt you.
i remember words i said to jessica - words mixed like to poison -- to hurt her, to madden her.
that is past -- that is over and done with...
i want you to be safe, betsy.  i want to know you are away from this place -- home again, where nothing can harm you -- nothing and no one.
you want that?
yes.
considering that the paper is three months old and this is not sunday -- no thank you.
i guess I will wait until I am home, mrs. rand.
why, betsy -- we can not lose you. you mean too much to us here.
that is sweet of you, mrs. rand.
dr. maxwell -- it is nice to see you.
dr. maxwell has very unpleasant news for us.
an accident at the mill?
no -- it is about mrs. holland.  a result of our discussion the other day, I am afraid.
what about her?
in view of all the circumstances, the commissioner has decided on a legal investigation.
investigation of what?
of the nature of mrs. holland's illness.  and, of course, the events which led up to it.
in other words, I am on trial.
i did everything i could to forestall this, paul.  i do not think there is any question of your innocence in the matter.  but there is been too much talk.  the thing's out of hand.
maybe it is better this way, mother. I am glad you are going home, betsy -- you will be out of the mess.
miss connell's testimony will be very important.
i would have stayed anyway, dr. maxwell.
we are all in it.  there will not be a shred of pride or decency left for any of use.  say something, paul!  you have always been good with words.  put some together, now, and tell us that you are not responsible -- that every damnable bit of it does not rest squarely on your shoulders!
you are wrong, wesley.  the guilt is mine -- all of it.
are you going to lie for him, mother?
betsy, tell them about the houmfort.  tell them what you saw there.
mrs. rand...
you must, betsy. they will have to believe you.
mrs. rand was at the houmfort that night.  but there is nothing wrong with that.  she is gone there for years -- trying to take care of those people,  to help them.
i think i do.  I have often talked a little voodoo to get medicine down a patient's throat.
it is more than that, doctor.  I have entered into their ceremonies - pretended to be possessed by their gods...
that is not true.  you never understood her.
that night, i went to the houmfort. i kept seeing jessica's face -- smiling -- smiling because two men hated each other -- because she was beautiful enough to take my family in her hands and break it apart. the drums seemed to be beating in my head.  the chanting -- the lights --  everything blurred together.  and then i heard a voice, speaking in a sudden silence.  my voice.  i was possessed.  i said that the woman at fort holland was evil and that the houngan must maker her a zombie.
and what happened then, mrs. rand?
i hated myself.  i kept saying to myself over and over again that these people had no power; they had no strange drugs; that there is no such thing as a zombie.
ah -- that is where reason took hold.
yes, i said it, and i made myself believe it. but when i got here, jessica was already raging with fever.
two things had happened, mrs. rand. one was that your daughter-in-law had been taken ill with a fever. the other thing -- completely disconnected -- was that you had wished her ill, because she had hurt your sons.
but i had no thought of harming her.  it was not i...
you were possessed.  that is true -- possessed by your subconscious mind.  you were in the houmfort, surrounded by their symbols.  to them, nothing worse can happen to a person than to be made into a zombie.  your subconscious mind used their own words for evil.
dr. maxwell is right, mother.
emotion tricks all of us, mrs. rand.  and you are a woman with a very strong conscience.  that conscience has been tormenting you. the rest is coincidence.  there is no such thing as a zombie.  the dead do not come back to life. death is final.
betsy, can i talk to you a minute?
of course, wes.
does she suffer?  does she know what she is?
i do not know.  i once asked dr. maxwell the same question.  he said he thought she was like a sleepwalker who would never waken.
she hated sleep.  she used to say it was a thief -- stealing away her life, an hour at a time...
not to a nurse.  sleep is a cure.
she is dead.  the dead ought to be buried.
but she is not dead, wes.
you know what she is!  that is death -- no mind, no senses -- no love, no hate, no feeling -- nothing!
please, wes, do as i ask.  you must rest, you must sleep.
no, wes.
jessica was never any good for paul.  you will be, you are.  and mother -- seeing jessica day after day -- never able to escape, never able to forget.  please, betsy -- it is only merciful.
