dr. jones.
lao she.
nee chin lie how ma?
you never told me you spoke my language, dr. jones.
i do not like to show off.
so, it is true, dr. jones? you found nurhachi?
sure, i found him. then last night i had a little trouble. somebody tried to slit my throat.
you have insulted my son.
next time I will cut off more than his finger.
dr. jones -- i want nurhachi.
what is that?
a bonus, dr. jones. that is poison. you just drank the rest of it.
now what about the antidote, lao.
at last i have the ashes of my sacred ancestor!
i like the service here.
hey, he is not a waiter...
no, wu han's an old friend i brought along.  so, the game's not over. put the antidote on the table, lao.
look out, damn it, i need that antidote!
who cares? where is that diamond!
wow! holy smoke! crash landing!
step on it, short round!
okey-doke, indy! hold onto your potatoes!
for crying out loud, a kid's driving the car?!
relax, I have been giving him lessons.
listen, we just met for crissake! I am not that kind of girl!
do not get your hopes up -- where is the antidote?
you do not look very good.
poison never agrees with me.  pull a right, short round, and head for the wang poo bridge!
what are we going to do?! where are we going?!
the airport... no, look out, short round! left, left!
you got the tickets, short round?
sure, indy -- three tickets! you, me and wu han --
I will take the extra ticket.  where is this plane going anyway?
siam.
siam? but I am not dressed for siam...
so, what are you supposed to be, a lion tamer?
since i was nice enough to let you tag along, why do not you give your mouth a rest? okay, doll?
I am freezing. what do you mean, tag along? from the minute you walked into that nightclub, you have not been able to keep your eyes off me.
oh yeah?
i get it!
you got it!
are you crazy, a lift raft?! we are not sinking, we are crashing!
get over here, damn it! short round, come on, grab onto me tight!
indy?
okay, shorty.
you all right?
no... I am not cut out for the kind of life you lead.  oh no... i ripped my dress. where are we anyway?
india...
holy cow -- india? how do you know we are in --
what did he say?
he told me they knew i was coming here.
what do you mean -- how?
the old man saw it in a dream.
dream -- nightmare is more like it.
he said that is whey they were at river -- they were waiting for the plane to fall down.
god, i am starving, but i can not eat this...
that is more food than these people eat in a week.  they are starving, too...
on the way to delhi, you will stop at pankot.
pankot is not on the way to delhi.
you will go to palace there.
has not the pankot palace been deserted since the mutiny of 1857?
no. now there is new maharajah -- and palace is powerful again.
it is pankot palace that kills my village.
i do not understand. what is happened here?
the evil starts in pankot. then like monsoon, it moves darkness over all country.
what evil?
they came from palace and took sivalinga from out village.
took what?
it is a sacred stone in a shine that is supposed to protect a village.
it is why krishna brought you here.
nobody brought us here. our plane crashed. we were shot down by --
no. we pray to krishna to help us find the stone. it was krishna who made you fall from sky -- so you can got to pankot palace. to find sivalinga -- and bring back to us.
indy, they make our plane crash? to get you here?
it is just superstition, shorty. like a ghost story.
was the stone very smooth?  it was probably brought here from a sacred river.
long ago -- before my father's father.
and it had three lines painted across it?  the lines represent the three levels of the universe. I have seen stones like the one you lost.
but why would the maharajah take this sacred stone?
they say we must pray to their evil god. we say we will not.
and then they took their children.
their children?
you will find them when you find sivlalinga.
I am sorry, i do not know how i can help you here.
what did he say now?
it was destined that i came here -- and the future cannot be changed...
i ride with you, indy?
nope, you got a little surprise over there, shorty.
this is the first time anybody ever cried when i left.
they do not cry about you. they cry about the elephants leaving.
figures...
they got no food to feed them. so they taking the elephants away to sell them.
hey, willie -- i think you better get out now.
stark naked? you wish... if you are trying to seduce me, dr. jones, this is a very primitive approach.
me seduce you? honey, you are the one who took your clothes off.  i just came over to remind you that you never know what else might be in the water.
somehow i feel safer in here.
indy! help me!
do not worry, I am coming in! what is it?
a snake!
a what...?
a snake!!
hurry, help me out of here! what are you waiting for?!
uh, listen -- willie -- i got a better idea.
what?!
first of all -- do not panic!
do not let it pull you deeper!
it is pulling me deeper!
do not let it curl around you!
it is curling around me! damn it, stop talking and do something!
listen, willie. do exactly what i tell you now.
what?!
can you move your arm?
just one arm!
okay, i want you to lift your hand -- and pet the snake.
pet it??!!
yes, stroke it right along the maxillary and precaudal vertebrae.
the what?!
pet it on the head! go on, pet it!
oh -- my -- god -- it is going to crush me!
keep stroking it!
what is happening?
it is starting to let go!
that is good -- you are doing fine.
thanks for nothing! i hate snakes!
i know the feeling...
where did you find your little bodyguard?
i met short round when he tried to pick my pocket.
shorty's family was killed when they bombed shanghai. he was living on the streets.
he will be okay. he is a good kid.
by the way, how did you end up in shanghai?
well, when my nightclub career was run over by the depression, some pinhead convinced me that "a girl could go places in the orient..." so, look where i got.
what about the future?
oh, that is easy -- I am going to latch onto a good-looking, incredibly rich prince.
I would like to find one of those myself.
oh really?
yeah, but he is got to be dead and buried for a couple of thousand years.  fortune and glory...
is that what you are hoping to find at this palace, dr. jones?
maybe...
the drawing shows a priest named sankara who lived centuries ago.
what does the writing say?
it is sanskrit. it tells the story of sankara climbing mt. kalisa where he met the hindu god shiva.
that is shiva? what is he giving the priest?
legend says he told sankara to go forth and combat evil. to do that he gave him five sacred stones that had magical powers.
you mean magical like the rock that was stolen from that village?
i think you should sleep closer.  i meant for safety.
I would be safer sleeping with that snake.
could not keep away, huh?
just try and control yourself.
indy, look!
that is it. pankot palace.
what you look at, indy?
just a statue.
he is afraid of something.
he said he could not take us any farther. he has to go sell the elephants.
you mean we have to walk the rest of the way?
any more complaints?
yeah, i wish you would thought of this sooner...
i would say you look rather lost.  but then i cannot imagine where in the world the three of you would look at home...
lost? no, we are not lost. we are on our way to delhi. this is miss scott -- and mr. round. my name's indiana jones.
dr. jones? the eminent archaeologist?
hard to believe, is not it...?
i remember first hearing your name when i was studying at oxford. i am chattar lal, prime minister for his highness the maharajah of pankot.
the plane crash and your journey here sound -- most incredible.
you should have been there...
we would appreciate it if the maharajah would let us stay tonight. we will be on out way in the morning.
i am only his humble servant, but the maharajah usually listens to my advice.
he is not exactly what we call "a spring chicken".
no, no, that is uhmed singh, the present maharajah's late father.
oh -- good. and maybe the present maharajah is a little younger? and thinner?
they will escort you to your rooms now. you will be provided with fresh clothes. tonight you will be dining with his highness.
dinner? and with a prince?! my luck is changing. but look at me -- my god, I have to get ready!
I have always had a weakness for folk dancing.
she might get away with that act here, but she would never make it in a real nightclub.
captain blumburtt and his troops are here to check up on the "natives".
just a routine inspection tour.
the british worry so about their empire -- it makes us feel like well- cared-for children.
listen, mr. lal, what do you call the maharajah's wife?
his highness has not yet taken a wife.
no? well, i guess he just has not met the right woman...
interested in local curios?
no. but i am interested in the occult. and this is a kryta.
charming.
it is like the voodoo dolls of west africa. the kryta represents your enemy -- and gives you complete power over him.
thank god all that mumbo jumbo rubbish is disappearing.
you think so?
of course. admittedly, it is taken time. britain's controlled india for almost two hundred years now.
you are hanging on better here than you did in america.
this is a different situation, dr. jones. these people are like children. we have to lead them slowly into the twentieth century.
the prime minister does not seem that naive.
no, he is a very shrewd old boy. power behind the throne and all that. he actually runs this whole province.
i believe we are being called to dinner.
finally!
that is the maharajah -- that kid?!
maybe he likes older women.
cheer up, you lost your prince, but dinner's on the way.
I have never been so hungry in my life...
i had a question, mr. prime minister. i was examining some of the maharajah's artifacts.
a very fine collection of very old pieces, do not you think?
yes, very fine. but not all of the pieces look old. some were carved recently and look like images used by the thuggees to worship the goddess kali.
dr. jones, you know very well that the thuggee cult has been dead for nearly a century.
of course. the thuggees were an obscenity that worshipped kali with human sacrifices. the british army wiped them out about the time of the mutiny of 1857.
i suppose stories of the thuggees die hard.
there are no stories anymore.
well, i do not know... we came here from a small village and the peasants there told us that the pankot palace was growing powerful again -- because of some ancient evil.
their stories are just fear and folklore.
maybe... but how do you explain the thuggee shrine i saw right below the palace?
give me your hat...
what for?
I am going to puke in it...
you know the villagers also claimed that this palace stole something from them.
dr. jones, in our country a guest does not usually insult his host.
sorry, i thought we were just talking about folklore.
I am sure it is nothing. just rumors.  what was it they claimed was stolen?
something magical. a sacred rock.
there, you see, captain. a rock!
when they lost this rock their fields and animals died. they also said their children were taken from them.
i think that is enough of this nonsense, dr. jones...
i was dubious myself at first. then something connected -- the village's rock and the old legend of the sankara stones...
dr. jones, we are all vulnerable to vicious rumors. i seem to remember that in honduras you were accused of being a grave robber rather than a scientist.
the newspapers exaggerated the incident.
and did not the sultan of madagascar threaten to cut your head off if you ever returned to his country?
that was a misunderstanding.
exactly what we have here, dr. jones.
rather bizarre menu, would not you say?
even if they were trying to scare us away, a devout hindu would never touch meat.  makes you wonder what these people are...
that little maharajah think he big stuff.
you do not like him do you?
next time i flatten him! did you see his eyes?
no.
indy, they glow like fire and get real crazy! then he talk in this real scary voice!
he was afraid of you. he knows a tough guy when he sees one.
yeah, that is what happened...
not leftovers?
no -- real food.
you are nice. listen, I am taking applications -- how did you like to be my palace slave?
wearing your jewels to bed, princess?
yeah -- and nothing else.  that shock you?
I am a scientist. i like doing research on certain "nocturnal activities" --
primitive sexual practices?
you are talking to an authority in that area.
you are dying to come into my room, are not you?
you want me so bad, why do not you invite me?
too proud to admit you are crazy about me, dr. jones?
i think you are too used to getting you own way, willie...
we will see who gives in first -- I will leave my door open.
do not catch cold.
dr. jones?
five minutes... you will be back over here in five minutes...
you are dreaming, willie. you want to make it real, just knock on my door.
get to sleep indy -- i stay up and keep eye on things...
okay, shorty... see you in the morning... I am going to have a little -- word with willie.
no -- do not you see -- crawling --
what -- the bug?
get -- the -- bug -- off!
gee, i would not want to touch an ugly critter like that!
oh no -- oh no!!
you know, willie, I will bet he is mad because they were eating his friends for dinner.
please -- oh please, I am going to die! get it off!
what does it mean, indy?
"follow in the footsteps of shiva. do not betray his truth."
what?!
willie, come here! hurry up, we are in trouble!!
willie?!
I am coming, what is the rush?! ohh! what is that?! there is stuff all over the floor! i can not see a thing!
there is bugs! bugs all over! help! help me!
willie, open the door! get us out of here!
get us out! willie, shut up and listen! there is got to be a fulcrum release! look around!
a what?!
a fulcrum release lever!
i can not find any lever! help me indy!
there is a hole! i found a square hole!
that is it -- the release lever -- look inside!
i am -- it looks horrible!
oh god, it is soft -- it is moving!
willie!
what is it...?
it is a thuggee ceremony. they are worshipping kali, the goddess of death and destruction.
oh my god! he ripped out his -- he killed him!
no... the heart's still beating!
let's go! let's get out of here!
quiet!
the village knew their rock was magic -- but they did not know it was one of the lost sankara stones...
why they glow like that?
legend says that when the stones are brought together the diamonds inside of them will glow.
wait -- what are you doing?
I am going down.
down? down there?! are you crazy!
I am not leaving without those stones.
you are going to get killed chasing after your damn fortune and glory!
maybe... someday.  not today.
this is nainsukh -- from the village. they bring him here to dig in the mines.
why?
you were caught trying to steal the sankara stones.
nobody's perfect. the way i heard it, you stole one of them from a small village.
there were five stones in the beginning. over the centuries they were dispersed by wars, sold off by thieves like you...
two are still missing.
no. they are here -- somewhere. a century ago when the british raided this temple and butchered my people, a loyal priest hid the last two stones down here in the catacombs.
that is what you have got these children -- these slaves digging for?
they dig for the gems to support our cause. they also search for the last two stones. soon we will have all five sankara stones and the thuggees will be all powerful!
nobody can say you do not have a vivid imagination.
you do not believe me? you will, dr. jones. you will become a true believer.
jones is not in his room. miss scott -- my troops are leaving at dawn if you want us to escort you to delhi --
no -- you can not go! something awful's happened. they have got short round and i think indy's been --
what?
we found a tunnel that leads to a temple below the palace! please, come with me, I will show you!
miss scott, you are not making any sense.
I am afraid they will kill them! we saw horrible things down there -- they had a human sacrifice and they ripped a man's heart out!
who?
it is some kind of cult! and they have got the sacred stones that indy was searching for.
i sense the fumes of opium in all this. perhaps miss scott picked up the habit in shanghai.
what are you talking about -- I am not a dope fiend! i saw it! I will show you!
it is okay. you are all right now.
they think I am insane. tell them I am not, indy. please -- help me ...
what?
you have got to go to sleep now.
i want to go home...
i do not blame you... this has not been what you would call a fun vacation...
I have spent by life crawling around in caves and tunnels -- i should not have let somebody like willie go in there with me.
miss scott panicked?
when she saw the insects she passed out cold. i carried her back to her room. she was sleeping when i re- entered the tunnel to look around.
then she must have run out of the room and you found her.
did you discover anything in that tunnel, dr. jones?
well, mr. prime minister, my report will duly note that we found nothing unusual here in pankot.
I am sure that will please the maharajah, captain.
as i said before, we would be happy to escort you to delhi.
indy? did you talk to them?
yes.
so now they believe me.
yes, they believe you.
i was scared to death last night when i thought they were going to kill you.
no... they will not kill me.
you know you have been nothing but trouble since i hooked up with you -- but i have to admit I would miss you if i lost you...
mola ram is telling the faithful of out victory. he says the british have left the palace, which proves kali ma's new power.
yes, i understand.
you understand what he tells us?
kali ma protects us now and for ever, and we must pledge our devotion by worshipping her with an offering of flesh and blood!
what are we going to do?!
there is got to be another way out.
i can't!
go!
come one, what is wrong?
behind you!
i do not appreciate being cooked like a french fry!
willie, come on!
slow on the curves or we will fly off the tracks!
read you loud and clear, indy!
let up on the brake!
what?
let her go! our only chance is outrunning them!
what above the curves?!
anymore ideas...?
yeah -- this time you are going to help!
that is far enough!
you are in no position to give orders, dr. jones.
give me the stones!
mola ram -- you are about to meet kali -- in hell!
no, the stones are mine!
you are betrayed shiva.
i guess mola ram got what he wanted.
not quite.
the last sankara stone.
and they do not even know what it really is.
well, you did not get your prince, and there goes your diamond.
you did not do so well yourself. finding that stone could have gotten you all the fortune and glory you were talking about.
it is still a long way to delhi. who knows what might happen.
