why not take the doctor's advice? you are the hero of the battle of corphon.
hero?
in the new york morning globe, the man who wins victory is always a hero. -
you know that sound, oliver?
i heard the same sound at ladysmith, at nukden, port arthur.  what do you expect after a battle?
you were at those battles as a spectator   i wonder if you can think what that sound might mean to me  those men out there  dead or dying  by my order -- because i willed it so.
do you mind if i go with you?
there is no one there - nothing but the caves and the dead.
I will only go as far as the shore and wait for you.
she is not there. the coffin is gone.
maybe you have got the wrong crypt  after all it is twenty years when you wore last here.
i took it for granted you gentlemen were refugees as are my other guests.
this is general nikolas pherides, commander of the third army. I am oliver davis.  to be perfectly frank with you, we did not expect to find anyone living here.
it is my home.  my name is hugo albrecht.
i have not been on the island in twenty years. it is changed - changed completely. where are the graves -- the coffins?
this was once a cemetery.
you were singing, were not you? a beautiful voice, miss st. aubyn.
that was my companion. she sings little peasant songs quite nicely -- a completely untrained voice, of course.
the enemy is in retreat. there will be no more fighting here.  i came here to visit the crypts. my wife was buried here. what happened to the bodies?
they were gore before i came here.
but why?
there was some trouble here the villagers on the mainland -this island was the focal point of their anger. they came here broke open the tombs and despoiled the graves.
all the graves?
I am afraid so. there were rumors people were aroused. some feared restlessness among the dead you know, the old superstitions.
i donut understand.
but the gods played a little trick on me. i was born in switzerland.
you collect these to sell, abroad?
he is exhausted.
why do not you stay here tonight? get a good sleep. you can return to your command in the morning.
perhaps i had better stay. i am tired.
I will get ida to make up your bed.
the young man, mr. davis, seems to be some kind of an unofficial observer  a correspondent of some sort
and the soldier -- he looked at me so strangely -- who is he?
i do not really know where thea comes from. the viceconsul at adrianople brought her to me..
her name is thea?
theodosia.
her family name?
damn me, if i know. she is become so much a member of our household i never think of her by any name but thea -- she has a last name --
you do not know her last name -- you do not know from where she came?
miss wollsten - my secretary, she would know.
your daughter is ill.
she is not too well.
what is her illness?
nothing, really. she is been under a great strain -- the journey -- the battle --
was she ill before that girl came into your household?
why -- no not before thea came
this girl --
this girl -- thea - is not a servant in my household, sir. she is my daughter's companion. now, sir, if you will excuse me, I will go have a look at mr. jacks.
i will go with you.
i hope mr. jacks gets to bed in one piece.
m~ father will take care of it.  pappa is wonderful! no matter what happens, he makes me feel perfectly safe.  i could never leave him. i should be utterly helpless by myself.
you are fortunate in your father.
thea is an orphan.
i adore hearing thea sing -- but my poor head's beginning to ache.  I am so sorry.
of course. tomorrow, perhaps, before i go?
you do not have to. it is inside of you -- all the glory that was greece - the dancing, the singing and the white marble --
how clover you are, mr. albrecht, to see all that in our simple thea... she is quite pretty, is not she?
this was the temple of hades --the god of the dead. it contained no images -- just empty space and walls of perfect symmetry.
how disappointing! i expected it was something more romantic. a temple to the goddess of love, perhaps.
the greeks thought death was beautiful -- an adventure --a journey to another world.  but i have my other guests to think of -- the general will be wanting to go back to his army. if you will excuse me --
cathy - how does it feel to have a father?
what an odd question!
i mean, does one love a father because he is good and kind -or just because he is one's father?
why, i love my father because - because i do. of course, he is nice to me.
thea -- you are hiding something. why do you suddenly speak of your father? you told me once you had never seen him -- did not know him --
i do not know him, but i have seen him.
what is it -- what are you talking about?
you have forgotten my last name?
i have forgotten it, dear.
my last name is pherides.
you are a happy man oliver. you have but one world to live in - the world of today. i have two worlds. i have that old dark world of peasant ignorance and superstition in which i was brought up and a new world which the army gave me  a world of mathematics, gun ranges,logistics, tactics, strategy.
it does not seem to bother you much, general.
i will be glad to leave this island. it has too much of that old dark world about it. i will be glad to leave it and that girl
thea?
there is something evil about her.
oh, now  now look here
i know all you are going to say -i have been saying it to myself, but the thought will not leave my mind. she resembles my wife -there is something about her the way she moves  the way she turns her head.
but that should make you like her.
it makes me fear her.
i can not understand that.
it is not necessary to understand. we are leaving and i am thankful.
thea, your choice is a very simple one. either you want to claim him as your father, or you do not.
but one must love a father.
the general  you do not even know him.
come, thea, if you are going to claim him as your father you have got to make up your mind. they will be leaving any minute.
i do not know. as a child. i longed for a father and now - i do not know
i felt he did not like me.
that should decide it or you --
i will let him go. he is dead to me as he is to all my mother's people. i turn my hand against him.
well, at any rate, i would like to say goodbye to the girl.
we have no time for that.
i need your advice  something has happened  mr.  jacks
drunk again?
he is dead. i want the general to see him.
he complained of not feeling well. i thought he was drunk 	he staggered.
that staggering. his dying so quickly.  in your campaigns, have you never seen men who staggered before they died, who talked incoherently  walked blindly.
I have seen men die drunk - and I have seen men die of the plague.
plague? there is no possibility of that, is there?
the rider on the pale horse is pestilence. he follows the wars.
I am not sure that it is the plague.
we will know when the next one sickens.  until then you and i remain here. i will not bring the plague to my troops.
in the meantime it would be useless to alarm the others.  let them think it was a normal  and, perhaps it was - perhaps it was.
I am glad you and the general did not have to leave us. we would feel quite deserted..
how could we go back to the wars with such pleasant company here..
thank you.
did you hear what thea said -- as if she knew what threatens us.
that is impossible. i told them jacks died of a sudden heart attack, probably brought on by over drinking.
did your servant got word to dr. drossos?
good night, oliver.
sleep well.
you are not leaving tomorrow..?
i think not.
until we know, what choice is there? we have to stay.
but the war, the army  they need you.
better no general than one carrying the plague.
we still do not know that it is the plague
dr. drossos will tell us. we will know what to do then.
i wonder if my editor's psychic? reports from the greek front are going to be a little vague.
or even spirit messages from the next world.
no. no. i will not believe it. he is not dead.
this is dr. drossos, chief medical officer of my division.
i do not care who he is. he does not know.	he can not tell
if the wind shifts, if the sirocco blows -- the hot wind from the south -- all danger will be over in twenty-four hours.
good winds and bad winds!
the ancient greeks had just as good an explanation -- that the gods sent the plague to punish mortals for harboring vrykolaka --
they used to believe that sort of thing in the mountain villages. some still do --
she is right. this is hardly the time to bandy old tales.
i have lived long enough to doubt everything -- which is to say, i believe everything, a little.
you are just talking nonsense.
let us put it to the test. protect yourself with every scientific precaution you can think of. I will go out on the cliff and build a votive fire to hermes -- not that i believe in him any more than i do in science.
we will see who is the first to die.
very well. I will wager a dinner.
i know it must be hard. but you have relatives in london --you've got a whole world of living, ahead of you --
no one can take my father's place.
i wish i did not have such bitter knowledge of you, cathy.
whet do you mean?
they were talking about the vrykolakas this morning. cathy, that is what you are  a weak, pale, half-dead thing that drains all the life and joy from those who want to live.
miss wollsten!
you and your mysterious illness. a new attack everytime you are crossed  everytime you can not get your own way.
your father knew it too. but he was never sure how much was pretense.
how do you know what my father thought - -
your father loved me.  he wanted to marry me. but he was afraid of hurting the gentle, delicate cathy. you spoiled his life you have ruined mine
you were father's secretary - i never thought - -
did not you? but now -- what are you thinking now?
what would i be thinking?
mr. davis seems a good prospect young handsome, sympathetic -- ready to listen to you and feel sorry for you - -
what if he is?
) but thea -- she stands in your way. i know you. i know your little hints  the way you can turn the truth into a lie --
why, I am fond of thea.
you are planing something, cathy.. but i will not let you - I will warn them against you.
you will not say one single word. i know your secret.
that your father and i
no. i mean your other secret -	the one you kept bidden even from my father. that old doctor in london -- he told me.
you are crying. why?
i do not know. everything's so mixed up --
everything's so simple. i like you.
what is bothering you, thea? is it the general?
sometimes when he looks at me in that strange way, I am afraid of him.
do not let it trouble you. he is an old man and these last few days have been a terrible strain on him. he will not harm you.
thea is so like her  in every feature
if she looked like thea, she must have been beautiful.
she was beautiful. there was blood between her family and my kin. but that did not stop me from taking her when i saw her beauty, nor did it stop her from loving me.
how did she die?
i don' t know. when i was gone the people from her village came to my home seeking vengeance. they bore her away with them. months later she came back pale -- sick -- she died --
is this what you wanted to speak to me about?
in a way -- this girl, thea. you must stay away from her.
i had a notion you had become selfappointed chaperone lately  why?
you are my friend.
and I am your friend  but that does not explain why you are always trying to come between thea and me?
if i told you  you would not believe me -- but this much i can tell you  the girl is dangerous to you. take a friend's advice -- an old man' s advice -- leave her alone -
that is ridiculous -- thea's lovely, gentle -
listen to what i say --
when you make sense I will listen.
where is thea?
i think she went to bed  i saw her going toward the house
i suppose you want to hear my prayer to hermes.
i just came to see if your prayer would entertain me as much as my medicine seems to amuse you.
) you feel the symptoms?
my friend -- what can one say --
you can have your servants prepare a dinner. that is the way I will meet my old- familiar enemy -- death --i have fought him before. I have won often. now he wins. let him come for me at my own banquet.
oh, no - it is too delicious! you are making it up!
on my word! that is what they believe.
please.. you should not laugh --
you see? thea believes it, too!
tell me about them, thea. they have great wings end long teeth --
sharp, shiny teeth -- and they creep up to your bed --
closer and closer - until they bite into your throat!
I am here. the general is here. you are not alone.
i must meet him with laughter - with songs and laughter -- to show him i am not afraid --
my father -- I am alone, oliver, completely alone!
poor cathy --
last night dr. drossos -- today you or i -- oh, no, oliver, it can not be you, i could not stand it.
there is no reason to decide any of us are going to die.
if only we could get away - - you and i. the others are strangers, they mean nothing to me
poor child. these must be horrible days for you.
I am so ill, I am so exhausted -- i almost do not care.
has that girl -- has thea ever told you where she comes from?
some village in the mountains -- alethera, i think.
has she spoken to you of her father and her mother?
she has never mentioned her family.
how old is she?
thea, what is wrong?
the general threatened me.
oh, that vrykolaka business. you must not be too angry with him, thea. he is an old man and now with all this trouble  the disappointment in not being able to lead his own army to victory -- cooped up here waiting for death - naturally his mind goes back to the things he believed when he was an ignorant lad in some mountain village.
he keeps asking for the name of my father and mother.
well, tell, him.
i can't.
why in the world can not you?
he hates all my race.
i knew that feuds still went on, but i did not think people like you and the general would be involved.
it is more than a feud between two families. he stole my mother away from her people.
thea, what is this? what are you trying to tell me? "he stole your mother" -
it is for that he hates me.
i do not think so, thea. he has spoken of your mother. i do not believe he knows you are his daughter.
then why does he persecute me? my family told me what kind of man he is, how he stole my mother and then abandoned her --
because she loved him.  i know him, thea. believe me, he is not a cruel man.
for a moment, when he looked at me so sadly, i felt that i had wronged him. but then --
let me tell him. when he knows you are his child, he will forget these insane notions -
no -- you musn't. he thinks I have bewitched you. he will not believe it - he will hate me even more! my only chance is to stay away from him.
woman, what are you doing here?
i wanted to be sure of something, general -- something that has always preyed on my mind. i have a horror of being buried alive and awakening to find myself shut in - entombed  imprisoned..
he sleeps quietly. he died with a wine glass in his hand -- he died laughing -- a brave man, drossos, like his father before him.
because he was a brave man - because i liked him -- i came here to be sure.
he is dead enough. god rest his soul.
I am a woman -- a lonely woman. i have few friends.
yes?
i have not had a happy life --but that one thing - - that terror which brings me awake out of deep sleep - i want to avoid it.
i do not understand you.
i do not want to be buried alive. if i die i want to be sure - quite sure.
if you should fall sick we will be careful. you need not worry.
no, i want more than that. i beg you general, make sure --drive a knife through my heart -- anything.
you ask that of me? you are afraid to live in your coffin. you know what that means?
that is superstition. that is something out of old tales -- about the dead who live - I am talking of something else --cataleptic attacks -- apparent death that is not real.
never fear -- when you are dead you will remain dead. i will see to it that you do not walk about again. i promise you that. there is another one here who can not die. i will watch you both. never fear.
what are you doing?
i was looking for you.
i have been troubled about you. i want you to know that my room is just downstairs --  you have only to cry out if you are ill  or frightened.
how kind you are. it is so comforting to know that someone cares.
miss wollsten shares the room with you?
no, that is thea's bed. miss wollsten's bed is in there.
I have always known what an evil mind lay behind that pretty weak face of yours  but this, cathy -- even i would never have believed it is of you.
would you care to explain what you are talking about?
you have been playing on the superstitions of that poor old man   working at him   turning him against thea.
really, this is idiotic!
you would do anything to get oliver away from thea. but I am going to stop you. I am going to tell mr. davis exactly what you are.
when i tell him that you are unfit to live a normal life with normal people - a cataleptic!
you would not tell that
would not i?
where is miss wollsten?
she is in her room.
if mr. albrecht is right, we will all be free in a few days.  i suppose you will be going on to athens?
i do not know now without my father.
I would like to, very much -- but it depends on what dispatches are waiting for me on the mainland.
in case you do so, would you --
another sad task. we will bury her tomorrow.  i think we would better lock the door for tonight. it will make them less uncomfortable.
no.  she shall not be left here.
maybe you are right. help me get something to carry her downstairs.
i have had command for the last time -
come - you will feel yourself again as soon as we get off this dismal island.
i shall not leave the island
it is getting dark. i can not leave now.
in the morning -- go. I will not die until then - I will not die  I will watch - they shall not hurt you.
shh it is all right - I will be all right.
they shall not hurt you
it does not look much like the fish spears i knew back in marblehead..
our friend, poseidon, did not use it for fishing. he raked the sea with it and stirred up the big waves.
I will go up and take a look at the general - perhaps sit with him.
he will not even know you are there. he is delirious.
all the more reason to watch him. he is had some wild notions lately.
do not bother. go to bed and get some sleep. I will be working late.  i can hear any movement down here.
well
go ahead. I will wake you up when i go to bed. then you can watch him.
thank you, I will do that. good night.
you should sleep, cathy. lie down and close your eyes. try to forget everything.
when i close my eyes, i see miss wollsten. i can not think of anything else.
she is dead  at peace.
suppose, she is not dead. suppose it was a cataleptic attack?
it was, the plague
we quarreled. she never dared get angry or frightened -- but i said things to her -- it was an attack, i know it was.
theodosia --
not theodosia. theodosia's daughter -- your daughter.
daughter -- my daughter --
she was born before your wife returned here to die. you never knew.
goodbye.
may life be good to you both. as for the others  they will be quiet here  and i will be with them.
