thanks, baby.
who's your partner?
get that for me, will ya baby?
you know it's for you.
it's boring, isn't it?
i can sit through it once.
he thinks he's joe gunn now.
i'm impressed. he knows a lot.
he's just repeating shit he overheard. he ain't any more a gun expert than i am.
want a hit?
sure.
when did you get out of jail?
four days ago.
where at?
susanville.
how long?
two months shy of four years.
four years?
uh-huh.
what for?
bank robbery.
really, i'm impressed.
see, what did i tell you? man in new york wants a 9 millimeter smith and wesson model 5946. why does he want it? it's the gun that nigga on "new york undercover" uses. because of that nigga, i can sell it to this nigga for twelve-fifty.
what's your cost?
as low as two.
are you serious?
that's what i been tellin' you. start adding these motherfuckin' figures up, and you tell me this ain't a business to be in.
i got me five m-60 machine guns. these came straight from the gulf war. i sold me three of them so far, twenty grand a piece.
that's good money.
louis, this is it, man. i'm gonna make me a million dollars out of this. i already got me a half-a- million sittin' in mexico. when i do this last delivery, i'm gonna make me another half-million.
then what?
i get out. spend the rest of my life spending.
who is it?
it's beaumont.
how can i help you?
where would you like me to put my ash?
that's winston. he works here.
he's a big one. you two tight?
yeah.
it was our idea to take the picture, wasn't it?
so, you want a ten-thousand dollar bond. what've you got for collateral?
gonna have to put up cash.
you have it with you?
it's in my bag.
you have cash. what do you need me for?
c'mon, you know how they do. black man comes in with ten thousand, they wanna fuck with 'em. first off, they gonna wanna know where i got it. second, they gonna keep a big chunk of it -- start talkin' that court cost shit. fuck that shit, jack. i'll go through you.
cost you a thousand for the bond.
i know that.
who's it for? a relative?
fella named beaumont. they have him up at county. it started out drunk driving, but they wrote it up "possession of a concealed weapon." dumb monkey-ass had a pistol on him.
ten thousand sounds high.
they ran his name and got a hit. he's been in before.
he takes off and i gotta go to kentucky to bring him back, you pay the expenses.
you think you could do that?
what's his full name?
beaumont. that's the only name i know.
i'm going to wait in the car.
sure.  we almost done, ain't we?
getting there.
you go wait in the car. wait a minute.
take the keys, man. listen to music.
which one is for the car?
this one's for the ignition...  ...but you gotta hit this thing to shut the alarm off and unlock the door.
what do i do?
you ain't got to do nothing. just point at it and push the button. you'll hear the car go "bleep." that means the alarm's off and the doors are open.
okay.
now play the volume as loud as you want but don't touch my levels. i got them set just the way i want 'em.
beaumont livingston.
livingston, huh?
on his prior, he served nine months, and he's working on four years' probation.
you don't say.
do you know what he's on probation for?
haven't a clue.
possession of unregistered machine guns.
will they consider this a violation of his probation?
they do consider this a violation of his probation. your boy's looking at ten years, plus the concealed weapon.
man, he won't like that. beaumont don't got a doin' time disposition.
i need your name and address.
ordell robbie. o-r-d-e-l-l. r-o-b-b- i-e. 1436 florence boulevard. compton 90222.
house or apartment?
house.
now i need you to count your money.
across the street a great western. it goes in a trust account. you'll need to fill out an application for appearance bond, an indemnity agreement, a contingent promissory note. that's the one, if beaumont skips and i go after him, you pay the expenses.
beaumont ain't going nowhere.  where do i sign?
hey, max.
yes.
i was wondering. what if before the court date gets here, beaumont gets hit by a bus or something and dies.  i get my money back, don't i?
what the fuck can i say? i'm serious, man. what the fuck can i say? thank you... thank you... thank you.
who was there for your ass?
you were there for me.
who?
you.
you see, it works like this. you get your ass in trouble, i get your ass out. that's my job. and i don't mind tellin ya, nigga, it's steady work.
i'm still scared as a motherfucker, ordell. they talkin' like they serious 'bout me doin' that machine gun time.
naw, man. they just tryin' to put a fright in your ass.
if that's what they want to do, they're doin' it.
how old is that machine gun shit?
three years.
three years. that crime's old, man. they ain't got room in prison for all the motherfuckers out there killin' people. how they gonna find room for you?
that's not what they're tellin' me.
that's why they call it "fuckin' with ya." now you wanna hear how we retaliate?
hey, c'mon in, man. i was just -- you know -- smokin' a fatty, watchin' tv.
naw, man. i gotta be someplace. i was kinda hopin you could come with me.
what'd ya mean?
look, i hate to be the kinda nigga, does a nigga a favor -- then bam -- hits a nigga up for a favor in return. but i'm afraid i gotta be that kinda nigga.
what?
i need a favor.
that requires me goin' out tonight?
a bit.
aaaaawww man, i wasn't plannin' on goin' no place. it's twelve o'clock, man. i'm home, i'm high --
why the fuck you at home? cause i spent ten thousand dollars gittin' your ass home.  look, i gotta problem. i need help, and you can help me.
what's the problem?
well, it ain't so much a problem a a situation. remember i sold those three m-60 machine guns outta the five i got?
uh-huh.
i'm gonna sell the other two tonight. this group of koreans in koreatown have started a neighborhood watch kinda thing. and they want a few weapons so the neighborhood niggas know they mean business. so i'm gonna sell 'em my two machine guns tonight. only problem, i ain't never dealt with these koreans before. now i ain't worried. asians are by and large real dependable. they don't want no trouble. you might argue about price, but you ain't gotta worry about them shootin' you in the back. but i got me kind of a rule. never do business with nobody you ain't never done business with before without backup. that's why i need you, backup.
man, i ain't ready to be goin' out nowhere --
let me finish. can i finish?
go ahead.
fuck that shit, man. i ain't shootin' anybody.
what the fuck i tell you. you don't hafta shoot nobody. just hold the gun. they'll get the idea.
i ain't gittin' in that trunk.
we're only goin' to koreatown. you'll be in there -- ten minutes.
uh-uh. i ain't riding in that trunk no minutes. why don't i just ride with you?
you can't ride with me. the surprise effect is ninety percent of it.
well, i'm sorry, man, but i ain't gittin' in that trunk.
i can't believe you do me this way.
i ain't doin' you no way. i just ain't climbin' in that trunk. i got a problem with small places.
well, my ass has got a problem spending ten thousand dollars of my own goddam money to get ungrateful, peanuthead niggas outta jail, but i do it --
look, man, i know i owe you --
well, if you owe me, git your ass in the trunk.
i wanna help you, but i don't wanna be locked in the trunk of no car.
you think i wanted to spend ten thousand dollars on your ass?
answer the question, nigga. do you think i wanted to spend the thousand dollars on your ass? yes or no?
course you didn't.
but the only way to help you was to do that, so i did it.  okay, how 'bout this? after we're through fuckin' with these koreans, i take you to roscoe's chicken and waffles. my treat.
louis, my man. watcha doin'?
oh, i dunno. watching tv.
whatcha watchin'?
nothin' really. just kinda goin' back and forth. they had some black girl from some black show on jay leno. i watched that for a bit, but i kept flippin channels cause i didn't know who she was.
guess where i am?
i dunno.
i know you don't know. i said guess.
the moon -- i dunno
i'm talkin' to you from the comfy- cozy interior of an oldsmobile parked outside your nasty-ass welfare motel.
you're outside?
uh-huh.
c'mon in.
naw, man. i just told you, i'm comfortable. i ain't about to walk into that roach motel and get uncomfortable. you bring your ass out here.
i'm in my underwear.
then put your goddam drawers on, and get your ass out here. i got somethin' to show you.
who was that?
that was beaumont.
who was beaumont?
an employee i had to let go.
what did he do?
he put himself in a situation where he was gonna have to do ten years in the penetentiary, that's what he did.  and if you know beaumont, you know there ain't no way in hell he can do no ten years. and if you know that, you know beaumont's gonna go any goddam thing beaumont can to keep from doin' those ten years including telling the federal government everything they want to know about my ass. now that, my friend, is a clear case of him or me. and you best believe it ain't gonna be me. you know what i'm sayin'? you gonna come in on this with me, you gotta be prepared to go all the way. i got me so far over a half-a-million dollars sittin' in lockboxes in a bank in cabo san lucas. me and mr. walker make us one more delivery, i'm gonna have me over a million. you think i'm gonna let this little cheese eatin' nigga here fuck that up? shit, you better think again. 'fore i let this deal get fucked up, i'll shoot that nigga in the head, and ten niggas look just like em.  understand what i'm sayin'?
yeah.
so we on the same page then?
i follow.
hi, i'm detective mark dargus. l.a.p.d. can i ask what you have in that bag?
the usual things. i'm a flight attendant with cabo air.
i doubt it.  who's your friend?
this is special agent ray nicolet with alcohol, tobacco, and firearms. would you mind if we looked in that bag?
would i mind? do i have a choice?
you have the right to say "no." and i have the right to make you wait here with ray while i go get a warrant. and if i don't want to go through all that trouble, i could just take you in on suspicion.
suspicion of what?
i'd say there's about, oh, fifty thousand dollars here. what would you say ray?
that looks like fifty thousand dollars from here.
this is your money?
if i were to tell you "no it isn't..."
you should know if you bring in anything over ten thousand you have to declare it. you forgot or what? you could get a two hundred and fifty thousand dollar fine, plus two years in prison. now you want to talk to us about it, or you want to talk to customs?
i'm not saying another word.
hey, this is my office. there's no smoking.
arrest me.
you got a good lawyer?
can she afford a good one is the question. otherwise she'll be in sybill brand three weeks easy before the public defender gets around to her.
ever heard of a fella named beaumont livingston?
i'm not a loser.
oh, you're both? in 1985 you were flying for twa and got busted for carrying drugs. you were carrying them for a pilot husband of yours. he did time and you got off. but that ended your career with the big airlines. cut to thirteen years later. you're forty-four years of age. you're flying for the shittiest little shuttle-fucking piece of shit mexican airline that there is. where you make a whopping twelve-thousand dollars a year. that ain't a hulluva lot to show for a twenty year career. and to top it off, you're going to jail. now true, the judge, even with your prior, will probably only give you a year or two. but this doesn't seem like the time of life you got years to throw away.  now, we don't like trying losers like they're criminals. but in the absence of a criminal, we will try you. now, wasn't this money given to you by an american living in mexico by the name of cedric walker?
help yourself.
while you're at it, let me see what else is in there. you mind?
my pocketbook.
what's in it?
beauty products.
what's this?
that's my diet shit.
oh, miss brown?
yeah?
and what would this be, sweet and low?
what the fuck is that shit?
i know what it looks like.
you planted that shit on me.
look, that shit ain't mine.
it isn't enough for trafficking, but how 'bout posession with the intent to distribute?
oh, i wouldn't be so sure. what with all the cash, i think i could go with conspiracy to traffic.
i'm tellin' you, i don't know nothin' about that fuckin' shit.
you tell those guys they'll have to do one helluva lot better than that before i'll even say 'hi' to them.
well, that's the state's offer. if you plead to possession and tell l.a.p.d. what they want to know, your bond will be set at one-thousand dollars. if you don't, l.a.p.d. will request one at twenty-five thousand based on your prior record and risk of flight. if you don't post it or don't know anyone who can, you'll spend six to eight weeks in county before your arraignment comes up.
who's side are you on?
i beg your pardon?
what if i plead guilty?
and cooperate? you might get probation.
if i don't cooperate?
with the prior? you could get anywhere from a year to five depending on the judge. you want to think about it? you got two minutes before we're up.
comfortable?
the door was opened, so i just came right in.
i can see that. why?
i got some more business for ya.
oh, yeah? what did he do?
she is an airline stewardess. got caught coming back from mexico with some blow. they set her bond this afternoon at ten thousand. now, what i was thinkin', you could use the ten thousand you owe me from beaumont and move it over on to the stewardess.
the bond for possession is only a thousand.
they fuckin' wit' her. they callin' it possession with intent. a black woman in her forties gets busted with less than two ounces on her, they call that shit intent. same shit happened to a movie star. it's possession.
it still sounds high.
she had, i believe it was... fifty grand on her, too. there was a cop at the hearing. young guy with l.a.p.d. wanted her bond set at twenty- five thousand, saying there was a risk of flight. jackie being a stewardess and all.
before we start talking about stewardess, let's get beaumont out of the way first.
somebody already did.
what?
you didn't hear?
hear what?
somebody with a grudge blew beaumont's brains out -- hey, that rhymes -- blew beaumont's brains out.
did the police contact you?
very first motherfuckin' thing they did. they see i put up a big money bond on my boy, they start thinking with that where-there's-smoke-there's fire logic. they roust my ass outta bed, ten o'clock in the morning. fuckin' scare my woman, sherona, half to death. she thought they were gonna take my ass away for sure.
the stewardess. do you know her last name?
brown, jackie brown.
what does she do for you?
who says she does anything for me? she's my friend. when my friends get into trouble, i like to help 'em out.
beaumont worked for you.
that's what the police thought. i told them i'm unemployed, how could i have anybody work for me? now i bail out jackie, i'm liable to have the police on me again, huh? wanting to know was she doing things for me, was she bringing me that money!
was she?
is this, me and you, like a lawyer- client relationship? the lawyer can't tell nothing he hears?
you're not my client until you get busted and i bond you out.
if there's no -- what do you call it -- confidentiality between us? why would i tell you anything?
cause you want me to know what a slick guy you are. you got stewardesses bringing you fifty grand.
why would a stewardess bring me fifty grand?
you want me to speculate on what you do. i'd say you're in the drug business, except the money's moving in the wrong direction. whatever you're into, you seem to be getting away with it, so more power to you. okay you want another bond, and you want to move over the ten thousand you put down on beaumont to the stewardess. that means paperwork. i have to get a death certificate, present it to the court, fill out a receipt for return of bond collateral, then type up another application. an indemnity agreement --
jackie ain't got time for all that shit --
i'm telling you what i have to do. what you have to do, in case you forgot, is come up with premium of a thousand bucks.
i got it. i just don't got it on me.
well, come back when you do, and i'll bond out the stewardess.
man, you know i'm good for it. thousand bucks ain't shit.
if i don't see it in front of me, you're right. it ain't shit.
man, you need to look at this with a little compassion. jackie ain't no criminal. she ain't used to this kinda treatment. i mean, gangsters don't give a fuck -- but for the average citizen, coupla nights in county fuck with your mind.
ordell, this isn't a bar, an you don't have a tab.
just listen for a second. we got a forty-year-old, gainfully employed black woman, falsely accused --
falsely accused? she didn't come back from mexico with cocaine on her?
falsely accused of intent. if she had that shit -- and mind you, i said "if" -- it was just her shit to get high with.
is white guilt supposed to make me forget i'm running a business?
tomorrow i'll talk to your probation officer. karen's a good kid, but she's mad at you, because you lied to her. this business about your grandmother's funeral
i went. i did. i took my mother and little brother.
but you didn't ask permission. you broke a trust. if you had asked, karen probably would have let you. i'm sure she would.
i know. that's why i went.
but then you told her you were home.
sure, 'cause i didn't ask her if i could go.
i don't know. maybe it's a language problem.  anita, you ever cause this much heartache over something that could easily be avoided, i'll never write you again. you understand?
i understand.
i mean it. i don't care how many times your mother calls or how much she cries.
i understand.
then say "yes, max. i understand."
yes, max, i understand.
so you're gonna call karen tomorrow?
i'll call her.
won't forget?
i won't forget.
i can give you a lift home if you'd like?
okay.
are you really a bail bondsman?
who do you think i am?
i gave you my card there.
can i see your i.d.?
you're serious?
who put up my bond? ordell?
in cash.
can we stop for cigarettes?
sure, ever been to the riverbottom?
i don't think so.
it's okay. it's a cop hangout.
couldn't we just stop at a seven- eleven?
i thought you might want a drink?
i'd love one, but not there.
we could stop at the hilton by the airport.
is it dark?
it's kind of a sports bar
that doesn't sound dark.
why does it need to be dark?
'cause i look like i just got outta jail, that's why. you droppin' me off at home, right? there's a place by me.
great.
you gain weight?
ten pounds. i lose it and put it back on.
that's why i don't quit. if i can't fly anymore, i'm gonna have a bitch of a time gettin' my brand.
what's your brand?
davidoffs. i get 'em in mexico. they're hard to find here. i was locked up with the last two getting legal advice from a woman who was in for bustin' her boyfriend's head open with a baseball bat.
was she helpful?
she was more helpful than the fuckin' public defender.  i don't know -- i guess what i need is a lawyer, find out what my options are.
you know, i figured out the other day i've written something like fifteen thousand bonds since i've been in the business. i'd say about eighty percent of them were at least drug related. if you want, i can help you look at your options.
you're not tired of it?
i am, as a matter of fact.
what have they told you?
so far i've been told i can cooperate and get probation, maybe. or, i can stand mute and get as much as five years. does that sound right?
i'd say if you're tried and found guilty you won't get more than a year and a day. that's state time. prison.
shit.
but they won't want to take you to trial. they'll offer you simple possession, a few months of county time, and a year or two probation.  how 'bout another?
sure.
you know who put the dope in your bag?
yeah, but that's not what this was about. they were fuckin waitin' for my ass. they knew i had that money, they even knew the amount. the one who searched my bag, from l.a.p.d., dargus, hardly even looked at it. "oh, i'd say there's fifty thousand here. what would you say?" but all they could do was threaten me and hand me over to customs, and i could tell they didn't want to do that.
they wanted you to tell them what you know.
i had 'em too. i burnt those two starky and hutch motherfuckers down. then their asses lucked out and found that coke.
what did they want to know?
who gave me the money and who i was giving it to. and some guy they found in a trunk with his head blown off. said it was him who told them 'bout me.
that would be beaumont livingston.
that's him. how do you know 'em?
i wrote him on monday. they found him dead on tuesday.
ordell pick up his bond?
same as you. ten thousand.
the federal agent kinda half hinted ordell might of done beaumont.
you mentioned a guy from l.a.p.d., but you didn't mention the federal.
i didn't?
no, you didn't. what branch?
ray nicolet with alcohol, tobacco, and firearms.
he's the one who wants you.
it was the other guy who busted me.
'cause if he busted you, you'd play hell bonding out of federal court. he doesn't want you mad at him, he wants you to tell him what you know. he uses you to get a line on ordell, make a case, then take him federal. you know what ordell's into?
i have a pretty good idea. ordell ain't no bootlegger and i doubt he's smugglin' cuban cigars. so that only leaves one thing an a.t.f. man would be interested in.
i used to bring over ten thousand at a time. that's the legal limit, so i never brought more than that.
how many trips did you make?
with ten thousand? nine.
he's got that kinda money?
it's all in lock boxes in a mexico bank. but he's got a problem. he's -- what do you call it when you got money, but don't have cash?
cash poor?
that's it. he's cash poor. he kept on me till i finally said okay. i'll bring whatever fits in a nine-by- twelve envelope. i got paid five hundred dollars, and his friend, mr. walker, in mexico gave me the envelope.
if you knew bringing anything over ten thousand was against the law, why not pack a hundred grand?
whatever it was had to fit in my bag and not hit you in the face if the bag was opened. this ain't solvin' my problem. i gotta figure out a way to either keep my job or get out of trouble. i'm off today, but if i can't leave the country i'm out of a job. and if i don't got a job, i can't hire a lawyer.
ask a.t.f. they might give you permission.
yeah, if i cooperate.
well, jackie, you got caught, you're gonna have to give 'em something.
but if all i can give 'em is ordell's name -- i don't really know shit about what he does or how he does it -- that don't give me much to bargain with.
give 'em what you got. offer to help. show a willingness to be helpful. you want to stay out of jail, don't you?
what'dya think?
i think maybe i have more options than i thought.
how you doing, ms. jackie?
i was expecting you. come in.
i got some vodka in the freezer.
got some o.j.?
yeah.
well, then, why don't you be a good hostess and make me a screwdriver?
sure.
for what?
who you think got your ass outta jail?
the same guy who put me in, thanks a lot.
hey, you get caught with blow, that's your business.
i'magine they asked who you givin' it to, too.
they asked.
and what was your answer?
i said i wanted to talk to a lawyer.
you positive about that? you weren't nervous and let something slip by mistake? if you did, i ain't mad, i just gotta know.
beaumont livingston.
i knew it.
and they asked if i knew mr. walker.
yeah?
i didn't tell 'em anything.
this fella beaumont, they say what happened to him?
they told me.
where is it?
is that what i think it is?
what do you think it is?
i think it's a gun pressing against my dick.
you thought right... now take your hands from around my throat, nigga.
what the hell you doin'?
shut your ass up and grab the wall!
now, baby, that's got nothin' to do with you. i just carry that. you been listenin' to them cops too much.
the cops didn't try and strangle my ass.
damn, jackie, i was just playin' with you.
well, i ain't playin with you. i'm gonna unload both these motherfuckers, you don't do what i tell you. understand what i'm saying?
baby, i ain't come here -- she shoves both guns in ordell's back.
i said, you understand what i'm saying
i understand woman, damn!
go sit over in that chair.
i'm tellin' you, those cops been fuckin' wit your mind. they turn black against black, that's how they do.
shut your raggedy ass up and sit down.
i just came here to talk.
way i see it, me and you only got one thing to talk about. what you willing to do for me?
let's get realistic, baby. sooner or later they're gonna get around to offering me a plea deal, and you know that. that's why you came here to kill me.
baby, i didn't --
it's okay. i forgive you. now, let's say if i tell on you, i walk. and if i don't, i go to jail.
yeah?
one hundred thousand put in an escrow account in my name, if i'm convicted up to a year, or put on probation. if i have to do more than a year, you pay another hundred thousand.
i got a problem...
all your money's in mexico.
yeah.
i been thinkin about that, too, and i got me a idea.
i'll talk to the cops tomorrow and tell you if it's on.
talk to you tomorrow.
if you're having some.
i am. have a seat.
you get a chance to use it?
i felt a lot safer having it. my milk went bad when i was in jail.
black's fine.
thanks, but i have my own now.
you went out this morning and bought a gun?
what, i couldn't hear you?
you went out this morning and bought a gun.
somebody loan it to you?
yeah.
want to hear some music?
sure.
i couldn't wait till i got home last night and wash my hair.
it looks nice.
you never got into the whole cd revolution?
i got a few. but i can't afford to start all over again. i got too much time and money invested in my records.
this is pretty.
uh-huh.
who is this?
the delfonics.
'76?
'74, i think.
it's nice.
i called in sick this morning. as far as the airline knows, i'm still available.
are you?
i don't know yet. i'm going to talk with dargus and nicolet today. do what you suggested. offer to help and see what happens.
what i meant was have a lawyer do the negotiating for you.
i want to talk to them first. i know more now about ordell's money.
well, if the a.t.f. guy is the one who wants you, that'll only interest him up to a point.
it's a lot of money. about a half-a- million dollars. all of it in cabo in safe deposit boxes and more comin' in.
how'd you find that out?
he told me last night.
he called you?
he came by.
what?... what'd you do?
we talked.
he had his doubts at first. but he's always trusted me an wants more than anything to believe he still can.
why?
he needs me. without me all that money is just gonna sit over there in cabo. sugar?
no thanks. there's gotta be other ways to get it out.
how do you get it out?
same way i been doin', but first they got to let me go back to work.
you're gonna offer to set him up?
if i get let off. otherwise, fuck 'em.
it's very possible ordell's killed somebody.
i ain't goin' to jail, and i ain't doin' that probation thing again.
how do you feel about getting old?
you're not old. you look great.
i'm asking how you feel. does it bother you?
it's not really something i think about.
really?
okay, i'm a little sensitive about my hair. it started falling out ten years ago. so i did something about it.
how'd you feel about it?
i'm fine with it, or i wouldn't of done it, i did it to feel better about myself, and i do. when i look in the mirror it looks like me.
it's different with men.
you know, i can't really feel too sorry for you in that department.
my ass ain't the same.
bigger?
yeah.
does something else worry you?
i just feel like i'm always starting over. you said how many bonds you wrote?
fifteen thousand.
well, i've flown seven million miles. and i've been waitin' on people almost twenty years. the best job i could get after my bust was cabo air, which is about the worst job you can get in this industry. i make about sixteen thousand, with retirement benefits, ain't worth a damn. and now with this arrest hanging over my head, i'm scared. if i lose my job i gotta start all over again, but i got nothin' to start over with. i'll be stuck with whatever i can get. and that scares me more than ordell.
great, you're here.
hey, jackie.
let me have a word outside with agent nicolet for a moment?
take your time.
thanks.
we'll just be a minute.
can i smoke?
what's going on?
she wants to make a deal.
she sound scared?
she almost sounds scared.
what's she want?
she wants to go back to work.
what's she willing to give us?
she hasn't one into specifics yet, she's been waiting for you.
she knows it's my case?
she ain't said it, but she's not stupid, she knows it's you who wants her.
thanks for waiting, jackie. now tell me, what can we do for you?
i need permission to leave the country so i keep my job.
we can look into that.
i need it tomorrow. if i don't show up for work tomorrow, i'm fired.
you know what we want.
if i'm working, i can help you.
help us do what?
help you get ordell robbie.
oh, so now you know him?
you never asked me if i did or not.
but now you're telling us now you do.
'course i do -- i deliver money for him.
no shit. you know how he makes his money?
he sells guns.
you ever see him sell guns?
no.
then how do you know he sells guns?
he told me. besides, why else would an a.t.f. man be after him?
how can you help us?
short of wearing a wire, i'll do everything i can to help you throw his ass in jail. and in exchange for my help, i need permission to leave the country and immunity.
you don't want much, do you?
can you do it or not?
we're back.
'ola!
hey, hey, hey. i think somebody's got some new clothes.
we been shoppin'. can't have my boy running around lookin' like a bum on the street.
i didn't look like a bum.
but you did have a salvation army- thing going.
ha-ha-ha. i'm serious, you smoke too much of that shit. that shit robs you of your ambition.
not if your ambition is to get high and watch tv.
hello.  hey, jackie...  no, jackie, i didn't get your message.
i was gonna tell you...
is it ready to go?
yeah, there's another hit left.
the cockatoo inn.
the cockatoo inn? where's that?
it's right on hawthorne boulevard and manhattan beach boulevard. it's red brick...
oh, wait, you mean that place that has the big sign with a rooster on it?
it's a cockatoo.
you okay?
yeah, i'm just gettin' old. i can't smoke or laugh now it seems without coughing.
coughing opens up the capillaries. when you cough, you're getting air -- in this case smoke -- to parts of the lung that don't normally get used. coughing's good -- gets ya higher. my dad coughs when he smokes all the time.
hope you don't mind keeping him company.
no problem.
try not to rip his clothes off 'em they're new.
want a metrix?
what's a metrix?
it's like this major meal in a shake you drink instead of having a big meal.
it's a diet thing?
no, it's what body builders drink to beef up.
no thanks.
which one?
the roller disco one.
fourteen.
you're fourteen years old here?
yeah.
i thought you were sixteen.
i was pretty much the same height now as i was then.
were you a disco girl?
noooo, i was a surfer girl. besides, i was only fourteen. i couldn't go to discos.
so where did you go?
the beach. or get high, drop acid at a friend's place. i was a k.l.o.s. girl. i hated disco.
that was taken at a place called "flippers." it was in hollywood. were you in l.a. back then?
no.
where were you?
detroit.
with ordell?
we had done time together already.
were you a disco guy?
no.
c'mon, don't lie.
i don't like dancing.
did you ever go i one?
i went to a few just to meet women. but i don't like to dance, and it's so fuckin; loud. during that whole scene i just drank in bars.  who didn't make the cut?
that's a picture of me in japan.
you been to japan?
i lived there for about nine months.
you lived in japan, when?
about five years ago.
who's arm is that?
that's the guy i lived with... his name was... hirosh.
must of made quite an impression.
i never got to know him, really. i couldn't speak japanese, and his english was terrible. but i couldn't say anything, because his english was better than my japanese.
that sounds like a problem.
not really. we didn't have much to say to each other anyway. i never got to know him that well, but i knew enough to know i wasn't missing much. i keep that, because of all the fuckin' time i was there, that's the only picture i got of me in japan.  that's japan.
wanna fuck?
sure.
yeah, that really hit the spot.
now that's over, let's get to know each other.
i bet you come here on a saturday night, you need nigga repellent keep 'em off your ass.
i do okay.
you a fine lookin' woman, jackie. i bet you do a damn sight better than okay. you think anybody followed you?
i don't think so, but it don't really matter. they know i'm meeting you.
how the fuck they know that?
i told them.
you told em? you told em it's me?
they already know it's you.
well, shit. that don't mean you gotta confirm it!
look, the only way i can get permission to fly is if i agree to help them. which is what i have to appear to be doing. so i give them something they already know. you.
didja tell 'em anything else?
i told them you got a half a million dollars in mexico, and you want me to bring it here.
you told them that?
it's true, isn't it?
what the fuck's that got to do with it?
they know i'm delivering for you. i mention the half-million -- they don't give a fuck about that -- they want you with guns. so i say, well, if you want proof he's getting paid for selling them, let me bring the money in.
what did they say?
is it dead?
yeah.
well, so far he is. but you have to admit he's not too bright.
i wouldn't go so far as to say that.
he killed a man worked for him the other night.
so what are you trying to tell me? i should get out of here?
that's not what i'm saying at all.  you know where he went?
no.
he went to meet that stewardess.
does that bother you?
please.
you live with him.
i live here. he drops in and out. he tell you about that half-million dollars he's got in mexico?
uh-huh?
course he did, he tells everybody who'll listen. that's what he's doin' with this stewardess. he's scheming how he can get it over here.
and your point is?
let him and that stewardess get that money over here...
uh-huh?
...and just take it from him.
...i make two deliveries. the first one with ten thousand, like a dry run. they watch it. see how it works. then we do a second delivery, when i bring in the half mill.
naw, naw, that's too much exposure. i ain't goin anywhere near that money.
you don't have to. i told 'em you're real careful. you never pick up money yourself. you always send someone, and i never know who it is.
that's a good idea.
if you just listen, you'll see it's a damn good idea. the first time i do it they're lurking about. they see me hand the ten thousand to someone.
who?
i don't know. one of your friends.
a woman.
if you want.
yeah, i think a woman.
the next trip, when i come with all the money, it'll look like i hand it to the same one i did before...
but you don't?
no, i give it to someone else first.
and they follow the wrong one thinkin' she's bringing it to me.
that's the idea.
so we need two people, two women.
can you cover that?
i got the woman covered. where you thinkin' about doin' this?
i was thinkin' the del amo mall. in the food court.
i suppose you see a piece of this for yourself?
well, it's my plan. we're in this together.
yeah, but it's my money, and i don't need me a partner.
i ain't your partner, i'm your manager. i'm managing to get your money out of mexico, into america, in your hands, and i'm managing to do all this under the nose of the cops. that makes me your manager, and managers get fifteen percent.
managers get ten percent.
that's an agent. manager's get fifteen percent.
i'll give ya ten.
plus the same deal as before.
i can do that.
the money's in a broadway shopping bag. i get some food, and sit down here in the food court. then your girl comes -- you got somebody yet?
uh-huh.
who?
what'd you care?
look, it's my ass facin' the penitentiary. you send some hard- headed roc whore, and she fucks things up.
i ain't gonna send no roc whore. the woman's cool, i promise.
well, hello.
surprise.
i walked right past you.
i know, ignoring me. what're you up to?
catching a movie.
what'd ya see?
"american president"
how was it?
pretty good. me and annette bening are goin steady.
oh, are you? does she know that?
no...  ...i don't believe she's ever heard of me. but that doesn't mean we're not going steady.
what's up with this shit.
i think falling in live with movie stars is something that happens to a man as he gets older.
does it happen to all men?
well, i'd never be so bold as to speak for all men, but as or myself and a few of my friends, that's definitely the case. there's a lot of actresses out there you like, and there's some you have crushes on. but there's always one who you love. and with her it's sorta like going steady.
and annette's it for you?
for now. these relationships never last too long.
who was your girl before annette?
sandra bullock. you know her?
yeah, she's the girl who drove the bus in "speed." she's cute.
she's adorable. but i had to end it.
why?
i'm old enough to be her father.
how old's annette?
i don't care.
what're you, a bag lady?
i go back to work tomorrow.
you talk them into it?
they seem to like the idea.
bring the money in and they follow it?
yea, but i'm going to dress it up. put the money in a shopping bag and hand it to someone i meet here.
you don't actually do it that way?
he always just picked it up at my place. but with a.t.f. involved, i want to stage it. you know, make it look more intriguing, like we know what the fuck we're doin'. then it's up to ray nicolet, the a.t.f. guy to follow the shopping bag.
make the delivery somewhere in the mall.
right around here, in the food court.
sit down, leave the bag under the table?
will ordell go for that?
i'm helping him bring his money into america. he loves the idea. you just missed him.
he was here?
yeah, we were goin' over everything. that's why all the bags.
i called you last night.
i know, i got your message. ray wanted to have dinner. he wanted to talk about the sting we're plotting. that's what he calls it. a sting. he's being real nice to me.
you think he's got a thing for you?
maybe. but i'm thinking it might be something like he wants the money for himself.
i don't follow your logic. what does his being nice to you have to do with him wanting ordell's money?
he's setting me up to make a proposition.
i see.
you don't propose something like that unless you're pretty sure the other person's into it.
has he hinted around?
not really. but i knew this narcotics cop one time. told me that in a raid, the whole package never gets back to the station. his exact words.
you know some interesting people.
he weren't bullshittin' either, 'cause later he was suspended and forced to retire.
has nicolet told you any colorful stories like that?
he tries to act cool.
no harm in that. he's a young guy havin' fun being a cop. i know the type, trust me on this. he's more interested in ordell than the money. if he's gonna do anything suspect, it'll be cutting corners to get the conviction; but he wouldn't walk off with the money. it's evidence.
what about you max?
what? if i was in nicolet's place?
no, i mean you, right now. not it you were somebody else.
if i saw a way to walk off with a shopping bag full of money, would i take it?
you know where it came from. it's not like it's anybody's life savings. it wouldn't even be missed.
a half-a-million dollars will always be missed.
you're avoiding the question.
okay, sure. i might be tempted. especially now, since i'm getting out of the bail bonds business.
i have to stand behind all my active bonds, but i'm not writing any new ones.
why?
a lot of reasons. but the main one would be i'm tired of it.
when did you decide?
it's been a long time coming. i finally made up my mind -- i guess it was thursday.
hi, i'm max cherry. your bail bondsman.
the day you got me out of jail?
yeah, that night i went to pick up a guy. i hear he's staying at this house, so i sneak in, wait for him to come home.
wait a minute. after we were together you went and snuck into a guy's house?
uh-huh.
got another gun and a stun gun...
and went to this guy's house in el monte, and i waited for him.
what do you do when he comes home?
shoot him with the stun gun. while he's incapacitated, cuff him, take 'em to county.
you do that?
that's my job.
did you do it that night?
he never came home. but i'm sitting on the couch, in the dark, holding my stun gun and the whole house smells of mildew -- so after a couple hours i think, "what am i doing here? nineteen years of this shit? so i made up my mind, that's it.
and is that it?
more or less.
i'm not sure you answered my question.
which one?
if you had a chance, unemployed now, to walk off with a half-million dollars, would you take it?
i believe i said i'd be tempted.
don't even think about it. you could get yourself killed go to prison...
what if i've figured a way?
how was your flight?
fine.
bet you're happy to be working again.
this is a.t.f. agent ray nicolet, jackie brown, ordell robbie money exchange trial run. it's three p.m., july 4th 1997. the location is the parking structure at lax.
what are you doing?
i'm recording this.
i thought you were going to let this one through.
we are. don't worry about it.
every step of this goes in my report.  i am now taking a manila envelope from the subject's flight bag.
the envelope contains currency... all the same denomination, one-hundred- dollar bills. now, i'm counting it.
what time do you have to be there?
four thirty. i'm meeting a woman.
what's her name?
he wouldn't say. you gonna follow her?
she leaves, somebody'll be on her.
but you're not going to stop her?
the envelope contains ten thousand dollars. the subject will be delivering the currency in a...
a broadway shopping bag.
the feds. it's evidence.
it may be evidence once they get their hands on it, but right now it's only money.
he say we like the same thing as married.
do you live together?
most of the times.
not every day?
sometimes every day, for a while.
then you don't see him for a few days?
yes'm.
you know what's in the bag you're taking?
he say is a surprise.
well, sheronda, it was nice talking to you.
you're rationalizing.
that's what you do to go through with the shit you start. you rationalize. i can do this, max, i know i can. but i can't do it without you.
how much is there?
over half-million dollars worth of merchandise.
can i ask you about melanie?
sure.
what's your relationship?
she one of the women i got set up. i got melanie in hermosa beach. i rent simone a small house in compton, and about four blocks away i got me this nineteen-year-old country girl named sheronda. i found her waitin' for a bus two days outta alabama, barefoot, country as a chicken coop. took her to my house in compton, told her it was hollywood.
she believed you?
hell, yeah. to her dumb country ass, compton is hollywood. close as she's ever been, anyway.
if this is about you fucked melanie, i don't give a damn. i ain't a fool. i leave you alone with a bitch like melanie, you're gonna be fuckin' that twenty minutes after i'm out the door. so say "thank you" and i'll tell you, "you're welcome."
that's not what i meant when i asked did you trust her.
she tryin' to work your ass against me, ain't she?
yep.
you didn't even hafta say it. i know the woman.
well, why the fuck keep her around?
'cause she my fine little surfer gal. she can't do me no harm. fact she think she can play you against me shows how little she knows. you could teach that bitch for days how it is 'tween me an you, she never understand a damn word.
why do you let someone know your business you can't trust?
i don't hafta trust her, i know her.
what does that mean?
you can't trust melanie. but you can always trust melanie to be melanie.
i still don't understand why you keep her around.
i told you, man.  she my fine little surfer gal.
drink?
i need to talk to you alone.
i don't want no more fuckin' surprises. we do this the way i laid it out, or we don't do it at all.
what the hell you talkin' bout?
sheronda passin' the money onto someone else, that's what the hell i'm talkin' 'bout.
how do you know she did that?
i was there, i saw her do it.
well, you weren't supposed to be there.
i know, but i hung around, 'cause i figured you'd try an' pull some shit like this.
now, hold on there. i ain't pullin' no shit. it's my money, i can do whatever the fuck i wanna do with it.
not when it's my ass on the line you don't. we do this my way or fuck it.
nicolet and dargus stop me at the airport and mark the bills.
man, i don't like that part.
it washes off. i tell them we're doing it the same way as before. they'll follow sheronda. i hate the idea of leaving her for a fall.
she won't have no problems 'cause she don't know nothin'.
are you sure she don't know about the money?
she don't know shit about the money.
what does she think she's gettin?
i told her this is a game us rich folks play, exchanging gifts. like a scavenger hunt. she didn't know what that was neither.  no answer?
uh-huh.
hang it up, she's on her way. you gotta listen to this. this involves you.
no, you gonna give her a robinson's/may bag this time?
right, the one simone gives me. simone and i'll make the switch at robinson's/may. she knows what i look like?
she saw you with sheronda. so simone goes to the dress department with her robinson's/may bag.
designer clothes.
she waits for you to go in the place where you try things on.
the fitting room. there's a sign over the door.
so you come out with her robinson's/may bag, go meet sheronda. simone peeks out, waits for my man louis here to give her a signal nobody's watchin'. she leaves the store, gets in her car -- mission accomplished.
where you gonna be during all this?
i'm gonna be sittin' at the titty bar in downtown l.a. till my man over here calls me and gives me the o.k. sign.
who's paging you?
ray, the a.t.f. guy.
that works on my nerves, you bein' so buddy-buddy with him.
if i wasn't, this wouldn't work. now once i deliver i'll have to trust you.
well, i've been trusting you all this time, haven't i? we agreed on ten percent of what you bring in and that's what you gonna get.
and a hundred thousand if i go to jail.
we're partners, baby, sorta. i ain't gonna screw you. you haven't told me where i put it for you.
give it to the bail bondsman, max cherry. he'll take care of it.
max cherry? you and him friends now? you tell him about this shit?
he won't know where the money came from. only that it's money.
oh, hi.
buy ya a beer?
i'm waiting for the phone.
good luck. that guy's been in there since i got here.
well, i guess i better look for another one, then. thanks, anyway.
sure.
great...  ...wanda!
killian's.
better get me another sam's.  join me in a jaeger shot?
uh-uh.
gimme one anyway.
how long you been with ordell?
this time? almost a year. i've known him forever.
what were you two fighting about?
he told me to go outside.  "you may leave us now." it's all part of his pathetic attempt to be "the man." you know mr. walker don't you?
mr. walker's my buddy. ask him about ordell.
that coke was yours, wasn't it?
he said he didn't know about it.
you believe that? yeah, well, i guess you have to trust him.  i'd have second thoughts on that, but then i know 'em.
he killed a guy who works for him the other day.
beaumont livingston?
you already knew that?
kinda.
so tell me. having all that money in your flight bag -- is it tempting?
you think i'm kidding?
dreaming.
you know how easy it would be? he won't be anywhere near that mall. pull one more switch, up front. that's it. half-a-million dollars. need help?
keep it between us girls?
what's that fucker ever done for us?
i don't think so, but thanks for the beer.
ordell has a white guy working for him named louis.
you two meet?
this afternoon before i came here. he was with ordell at an apartment in hermosa beach. i don't know if he lives there, but i can find out.
you talk to him?
not really.
his full name is louis gara. he just got out from serving four years in susanville.
what for?
bank robbery? do you know what he does for ordell?
i imagine shit needs to be done.
we've been following mr. gara, and he's definitely working for ordell.
...compton with a fifty-six-year- old petty thief -- woman named simone hawkins.
ever meet her, or they talk about her?
not yet.
who's the other one?
white girl named melanie ralston. another girlfriend of ordell's.
what's her story?
it was her coke i got busted with. she knows everything, but she's not part of it, and she's pissed cause she's not part of it. ordell wouldn't even let her stay at the meeting. she tried to talk me into ripping off ordell.
and splittin' with her?
i'm sure that was the idea.
what did you say?
i smiled and walked away. she also told me ordell killed beaumont.
she told you that?
uh-huh.
was she there?
she didn't say.
but she mentioned beaumont by name?
uh-huh.
well, this sounds like a lady i'd like to have a word with. so everything's set for tomorrow?
right. everything's the same, except one change...
i told them ordell's changed the amount he's bringing in.
do you think they bought it?
oh, yeah. i got them thinking ordell's real nervous. they love thinking he's scared of them.
you know, a good cop won't let you know he knows you're fulla shit.
all he needed was a reasonable explanation.
it'll be more than that.
don't be so literal. ray believed it.
but you still have to show him the money at the airport.
well, you know i'm not going to show him the whole amount. he'll see fifty thousand.
where's the rest of it?
in the bag underneath.
what if he checks it?
he won't -- i mean, he didn't the last time. he'll be expecting fifty thousand and there it is -- on top.
you're takin' a helluva chance kid.
not really. if he finds it, i say mr. walker put the money in, and i didn't know nothing about it. like the coke.
then you're out and you get nothing.
yeah, but i'm not in jail and i tried.
you're gonna have surveillance all over you.
that's why you don't make a move till i come out of the fitting room.
in a dress.
well, a suit. there's one i had my eye on.
you said that the last time.
well, it's true, isn't it? after this is buttoned up we could meet someplace else. what do you think?
we could, if i'm not in jail.
oh, that's taken care of. i called the state attorney's office. you were no-filed this morning in circuit court.
that's fifty thousand, huh? it doesn't look like that much.
i was told ten thousand in each pack.
you didn't count it?
i never have. it's not my money.
ever been tempted?
what? to put one of these in my pocket?
uh-huh.
if i did, i'd have to give you one, wouldn't i? or we could take what we want. no one knows how much there is except us, right?
yes. all those things are true.
after all, it don't belong to nobody, right?
that would be one point of view.
yeah, well, it's not a point of view that a.t.f. shares. once we make it evidence, it belongs to us. you are now officially out of trouble. don't do nothing stupid, now.
how can i do anything if i'm being watched every second?
i'm glad you realize that. saves me the trouble of pointing it out to you.  put this in your shopping bag. it's what i expect to find when i look in sheronda's. comprende?
si.
i'm going out for a few hours.
hold on a minute.  where you going?
i'm going to del amo, see a movie, get something to eat.
watcha gonna see?
whatever looks best and starts the soonest.
have fun.
well, you the one in motherfuckin' charge.
well, she keeps saying 'in a minute.'
go in there, snatch her by the hair, and drag her big ass out. this is my goddam money we're talking about. get your ass out the door.
we're leaving now!
all right already.
can i help you?
yes, you have a suit i've had my eye on.
this looks pretty good on me.
are you kidding, it looks great. you wear this to a business meeting, you're the badass in the room. but you can go out dancing in this too. it's a total power suit.
i think i'm gonna just get this for today. i'm in kind of a hurry. would you mind ringing this up while i change out of it?
not a problem.
thanks.
jackie?
hi, melanie.
are you getting that black suit?
yeah, do you like it?
it looks good on you.
do you got something for me?
you betcha.
i put a little cherry on top. you're right. what the hell he ever do for us?
thanks.
now be careful with that bag. you don't want it ripping open on you in the middle of the store.
i'm sorry, i just decided to stay in the suit -- get out of that damn uniform.
oh, that's not a problem.
jesus christ, get a grip, louis.
we shoulda been there already and we woulda been if it hadn't been for your fuckin' around!
that's a nice outfit on her. i'm gonna go over and look at this michi moon display.
just stay right fuckin' here, all right?
are you sweating?
what are you doin'?
i'm getting out of here. what do you think?
lemme have the bag.
fuck you. i can carry it.
goddam you. gimme that bag,
watch it, dipshit. you wanna rip the fuckin' bag?
gimme that bag before i knock you out and take it.
i'm carrying it.
okay, you got it. just take a chill pill, for christ sake.
is it this aisle, lou-is?
yeah, down the end.
you sure?
is it this aisle or the next one over?
this one.
you sure?
i mean it. don't say one fuckin' word.
okay, lou-is.
it's louis.
did you get it?
i got it. listen, there's something else i have to tell you.
when i see you. pick me up at sam's. you count the money?
i haven't even looked at it yet, it's still in the shopping bag.
melanie must be dyin' to see it.  louis.
that's what i got to talk to you about. you see, melanie was giving me a hard time --
not now, pick me up.
you keep drivin' down ninth, to where they got all them car dealerships. we're gonna leave this heap in a parking lot and get one the cops don't know about.  hey, where's melanie?
that's what i gotta tell you. she bugged me the whole time. got pissy with me 'cause i wouldn't let her carry the bag. started running her fuckin' mouth... i couldn't remember right away when we came out where the car was parked, so she got on me about that. "is it this aisle lou- is, is it that one?" she was totally fuckin' with my nerves.
so what, you left her there.
i shot her.
you shot melanie?
twice. in the parking lot.
couldn't talk to her?
you know how she is.
you couldn't just hit her?
maybe... but at that moment... i dunno...
you shot her twice?
uh-huh.
so you're sure she's dead.
pretty sure.
where did you shoot her?
in the chest and stomach.
well, if you had to do it, you had to do it. what we don't want is that bitch surviving on us. anybody but that woman.
louis?
what?
where's the rest of it?
how much it there?
maybe forty, maybe not that much.
you said five hundred and fifty!
so you light, ain't you. you light about a half-a-million.
look, that's the bag she came out with. she never even put her hand in it, and neither did i.
came outta where?
the fitting room. it went down exactly the way it was supposed to.
how long was she in there?
maybe a minute. she came right out.
louis, you tellin' me the truth?
look, i swear to fucking god, she came out with that bag and i took it from her.
then what?
we went to the parking lot.
where you shot her.
that's right.
you sure she ain't somewhere with a half-a-million dollars i worked my ass off to earn?
fuck you for asking me that.
pull the car over.
what'd you shoot her with?
it's in there.
okay, so it was jackie brown.
if she's got it, why didn't she take it all?
'fore i blow that bitch's brains out, i'll ask her.
maybe the feds got it.
if there were nothin; in here but towels, maybe she didn't get a chance to take it from her suitcase and a.t.f. got it. but, she put these fuckin' books in here to trick our ass.
that's why i never checked it. the bag felt right.
then she throws forty thousand in here, to rub the shit in my face, know what i'm saying? she wants me to know she ripped me off.
i don't know. either she has it or the feds.
or...  ...she gave it to somebody else first, before melanie went in the dressing room.
jesus christ.
what?
you know who i saw in the dress department?
tell me.
i didn't really think anything of it. no -- i did wonder what he was doing there, but didn't think it had anything to do with us. you know like maybe he was there with his wife or girlfriend.
you gonna tell me who it was?
max cherry.
you see max cherry in the dress department. we're about to be handed half-a-million dollars -- man, look at me when i'm talking to you! and you don't think nothing of him being there!
do max cherry and jackie brown know each other?
hell, yes, they know each other. he bonded her out of county.
how am i supposed to know that?
you know the motherfucker's a bail bondsman, don't ya? you know every last one of them motherfuckers is crooked as hell?
why should i think anything's weird, if i don't know nothin' about them knowing each other?
man, i don't want to hear your fuckin' excuses!
i ain't givin' you fuckin' excuses, i'm givin' you reasons.
oh, you gonna tell me the reason you lost all the goddam money i got in the world! let me tell you the reason, motherfucker! the reason is, your ass ain't worth a shit no more!
i thought i did.
you didn't. i would think with all this on your mind, you'd wait till after.
i got there early. i've had my eye on this suit -- wait, let's start over. i got there early. the idea was to try on the suit, see if i liked it. if i did, get them to wrap it up, and change back into my uniform. that's what sheronda's expecting me to wear. go meet sheronda, give her the bag with fifty thousand, and go home.
but you didn't do that.
because i didn't have it. ray, i swear, melanie came in and grabbed it.  and someone killed her for it.
where's the bag she gave you?
she didn't give me one. i told you before, melanie wasn't part of the plan. ordell must of told her to do it. she bursts in, grabs the shopping bag, and takes off. what am i supposed to do, go after her? i'm in my fucking underwear. i had to get dressed before i could do anything. so i put this back on 'cause could put this on faster than i could my uniform.
you took the time to pay the saleswoman.
i had to. i was frantic. i didn't know what to do.
what did you do after that?
i went looking for you. i went straight to the bookstore, 'cause that's where you were last time, but you weren't there. how the hell else am i supposed to let anybody know what happened? you didn't tell me how to do that, did you? i knew i was under surveillance, so when i couldn't spot anybody, i started yelling.
there was a guy with melanie?
not in the fitting room.
we had our agent on you. she sees a blonde come out of the fitting room carrying a robinson's/may bag and tussle with a tough-looking white guy. the white guy takes the shopping bag and they go.
this guy with melanie, that was louis gara?
i didn't see him. i was in my underwear. if it was a white guy, it was probably louis. he kill melanie?
it's possible. you're saying you don't have any idea what happened to that fifty thousand?
i have no idea.
you'd take a polygraph on it?
if it'll make you happy.
i sure hope you haven't done anything dumb jackie.
can i have a word with you?
sure.
louis gara's dead. l.a.p.d. found him dead in a car on ninth. and we've lost ordell.
i thought you were watching him.
we were, and we lost him. he walked into a strip bar sometime around three thirty and never came out. the bar was on ninth, less than a mile- and-a-half from where louis was found dead. it looks like louis's friend shot him twice at point blank range.
so what happens now?
we pick up ordell. we've got three murders we can link him to. we have the storage unit where he keeps his guns, by tomorrow we'll have a search warrant to go in and get him. and we have you.
what about me?
what about you?
do you think i took some of that money?
i have no evidence of your taking anything. you didn't pay for your snazzy new suit with marked bills; i was glad to see that. you've been helping us out, you gave us melanie and louis. melanie had a packet of marked bills stuffed in her shorts when they found her, which goes a long way backing up your story.
cherry bail bonds.
let me speak to max cherry.
he ain't here right now.
he leave town?
he's around.
give me his home number.
i'll give you his beeper.
you know who this is?
mister robbie, isn't it? i have the ten thousand you put up. isn't that why you called.
the bond collateral on beaumont livingston you moved over to cover miss brown, remember?
she got off, huh?
they decided to no-file. tell me where you are and i'll bring you your money.
you still there?
looky here, i know you helped her and i know you know what i want. jackie can tell me any story come in that pretty head of hers. long as at the end of that story, she hands over my money. she do that, we're still friends. now, she don't wanna be my friend no more, tell her to think about ol' louis. and if she tries to turn me in, i'll name her ass as my accessory. we'll go upstate together. hand in handcuffed hand. now that shit's a promise, understand what i'm sayin'? you tell her that, and i'll call you back.
you're right, that was ordell. you have time, you think you could find out for me where he's staying?
cops can't locate him, huh?
they don't have your winning personality.
sure thing. i don't have to know what i'm doing, long as you know.
i think i do. is that good enough?
how'd you find out?
all winston had to do was ask around. ordell's living in long beach with a woman junkie.
how does winston find him if a.t.f. and all the local police can't?
people talk to winston. he's street, same as them, they trust him. they get busted, they know somebody who can bond them out. i thought i might drop in on him. he'll no doubt be surprised to see me.
he's liable to shoot you.
on the phone i told him i have the ten thousand he put up for your bond. i could bring the money and the papers for him to sign. walk out and call the sheriff's department.
ray wants him.
everybody wants him, he's a homicide suspect. it doesn't matter who brings him in, he's gonna name you as an accessory.
that's why a.t.f.'s gotta make the case. i'm their witness. they wouldn't have a case without me. if it's his word against mine, who are they gonna believe?
it's not that simple.
it never was, so i'm not gonna start worrying about it now. look, ray more or less believes my story, and he more or less doesn't care. all he really gives a shit about is getting ordell.
so how do we give ordell to nicolet?
get ordell to come to your office.
set him up.
uh-huh.
tell him you want to see him?
tell him i want to give him his money.
why?
i've chickened out. i'm afraid of him. he'll like that.
what do you tell nicolet?
ordell called and wants to meet me and i'm scared.
we get ordell to come to my office. nicolet -- is he already there, or does he come busting in while we're chatting?
he's already there.
what if he hears something he's not supposed to?
well, we don't let that happen, now do we?
what the fuck you doin' knockin on the door like the goddamn police? you lookin' to get shot?
i thought you might be asleep.
you keep fuckin' with me, you're gonna be asleep forever.
i'm alone.
git your ass in here.
that's all?
i have a bond receipt for you to sign.
you know what the fuck i'm talkin' about. you talk to her?
she wants to give you your money. if she didn't, there'd be cops batter- ramming the door right now.
how'd you find me?
winston found you.
how the fuck did he find me?
that's what winston does. he finds people who don't want to be found.
well, bully for that nigga. you say she wants to give me the money, huh?
uh-huh.
well, give it to me then.
she wants to give it to you herself and collect her ten percent. she also wants to explain why she had to hold on to it.
i'd like to hear that too. turn around and put your hands on your head.
jackie didn't trust melanie. she'd already tried to get jackie to go in with her, split the half million amongst themselves. what she did was take quite a risk to see you get your money.
lift up your pant leg. you help her?
all i did was walk out with it.
and you did that to protect my interest?
in a way, yes.
my ass be dumb, but i'm not a dumbass. go sit over there on the couch.
this place stinks.
you get used to it after a while. now tell me where my money's at.
my office.
and where's jackie?
she's been there since thursday night.
she wanted to see me, why wasn't she home?
she was afraid.
that i gotta see.
she still is. she doesn't want to get shot before she can tell you what happened.
have her bring the money here.
it's in the safe. she can't get at it.
call her, tell her the combination.
i'm telling you, you got her spooked. she won't leave there till you have your money and you're gone.
you expect me to just walk in there?
if she wanted to set you up, you'd be in custody right now. when you said you'd name her as an accessory she believed you. that scares her more than anything.
that's why she's givin' up my money huh? not that bullshit about melanie. i didn't trust her ass neither, but i knew how to handle her. she was my blonde-headed little surfer gal. i fuckin' told louis he could've just given her a punch in the mouth, he didn't need to shoot her. she's at your office.
uh-huh.
by herself. that big mandingo nigga winston ain't there, is he?
she's all alone.
i call your office, she better answer the phone.
she will.
it's the next street.
i know where it is.
turn left.
i know where to turn.
my money's in that office, right?
uh-huh.
she starts givin' me some bullshit about it ain't there. it's somewhere else and we can go get it.  i'm shootin' you in the head right then and there. then i'm gonna shoot her in the kneecap, find out where my godamn money is. i go walkin' in there and that nigga winston or anybody else is in there, you're the first man shot, understand what i'm sayin'?
yeah.
now, is there anything you want to tell me before we get out of this car?
no.
you sure?
yes.
you better be, motherfucker.
does he have the marked bills on him?
in his inside coat pocket.
why were you with him?
i went to give him his refund, so he wouldn't have to come here.
how'd you know where he was?
i found out.
and you didn't tell the police?
i told jackie, and jackie said you wanted him.
i got your package. it was fun getting a half-a-million dollars in the mail.
less ten percent.
yeah, your fee. i had to figure that out, since there wasn't no note.
only this isn't a bail bond, max.
i hesitated taking that much.
you worked for it -- if you're sure that's all you want.
i'm sure.
i saw ray the other day. boy is he pissed he missed all the excitement.
what's he doing?
he's on to a new thing. he's after a guy who owns a gun shop he says is "woefully and wantonly" selling assault rifles to minors. he says he's gonna take him down if it's the last thing he does.
did you tell him you were leaving?
i told him i might.
that's ordell's.
they've confiscated all his other stuff. but this one's sorta left over. the registration's in the glove box, the keys were under the seat... what's a matter, haven't you ever borrowed someone's car?
not after they're dead.
i didn't use you, max.
i didn't say you did.
i never lied to you.
i know.
we're partners.
i'm fifty-five-years old. i can't blame anybody for anything i do.
do you blame yourself for helping me?
i'd feel a whole lot better if you took some more money.
you'll get over that.
where're you going?
spain.
madrid or barcelona?
start off in madrid. ever been there?
wanna go?
thanks, but you have a good time.
sure i can't twist your arm?
thank you for saying that, but no. my business.
i thought you were tired of your business?
i'm just tired in general.
are you scared of me?
thanks, baby.
who's your partner?
get that for me, will ya baby?
you know it's for you.
it's boring, isn't it?
i can sit through it once.
he thinks he's joe gunn now.
i'm impressed. he knows a lot.
he's just repeating shit he overheard. he ain't any more a gun expert than i am.
want a hit?
sure.
when did you get out of jail?
four days ago.
where at?
susanville.
how long?
two months shy of four years.
four years?
uh-huh.
what for?
bank robbery.
really, i'm impressed.
see, what did i tell you? man in new york wants a 9 millimeter smith and wesson model 5946. why does he want it? it's the gun that nigga on "new york undercover" uses. because of that nigga, i can sell it to this nigga for twelve-fifty.
what's your cost?
as low as two.
are you serious?
that's what i been tellin' you. start adding these motherfuckin' figures up, and you tell me this ain't a business to be in.
i got me five m-60 machine guns. these came straight from the gulf war. i sold me three of them so far, twenty grand a piece.
that's good money.
louis, this is it, man. i'm gonna make me a million dollars out of this. i already got me a half-a- million sittin' in mexico. when i do this last delivery, i'm gonna make me another half-million.
then what?
i get out. spend the rest of my life spending.
who is it?
it's beaumont.
how can i help you?
where would you like me to put my ash?
that's winston. he works here.
he's a big one. you two tight?
yeah.
it was our idea to take the picture, wasn't it?
so, you want a ten-thousand dollar bond. what've you got for collateral?
gonna have to put up cash.
you have it with you?
it's in my bag.
you have cash. what do you need me for?
c'mon, you know how they do. black man comes in with ten thousand, they wanna fuck with 'em. first off, they gonna wanna know where i got it. second, they gonna keep a big chunk of it -- start talkin' that court cost shit. fuck that shit, jack. i'll go through you.
cost you a thousand for the bond.
i know that.
who's it for? a relative?
fella named beaumont. they have him up at county. it started out drunk driving, but they wrote it up "possession of a concealed weapon." dumb monkey-ass had a pistol on him.
ten thousand sounds high.
they ran his name and got a hit. he's been in before.
he takes off and i gotta go to kentucky to bring him back, you pay the expenses.
you think you could do that?
what's his full name?
beaumont. that's the only name i know.
i'm going to wait in the car.
sure.  we almost done, ain't we?
getting there.
you go wait in the car. wait a minute.
take the keys, man. listen to music.
which one is for the car?
this one's for the ignition...  ...but you gotta hit this thing to shut the alarm off and unlock the door.
what do i do?
you ain't got to do nothing. just point at it and push the button. you'll hear the car go "bleep." that means the alarm's off and the doors are open.
okay.
now play the volume as loud as you want but don't touch my levels. i got them set just the way i want 'em.
beaumont livingston.
livingston, huh?
on his prior, he served nine months, and he's working on four years' probation.
you don't say.
do you know what he's on probation for?
haven't a clue.
possession of unregistered machine guns.
will they consider this a violation of his probation?
they do consider this a violation of his probation. your boy's looking at ten years, plus the concealed weapon.
man, he won't like that. beaumont don't got a doin' time disposition.
i need your name and address.
ordell robbie. o-r-d-e-l-l. r-o-b-b- i-e. 1436 florence boulevard. compton 90222.
house or apartment?
house.
now i need you to count your money.
across the street a great western. it goes in a trust account. you'll need to fill out an application for appearance bond, an indemnity agreement, a contingent promissory note. that's the one, if beaumont skips and i go after him, you pay the expenses.
beaumont ain't going nowhere.  where do i sign?
hey, max.
yes.
i was wondering. what if before the court date gets here, beaumont gets hit by a bus or something and dies.  i get my money back, don't i?
what the fuck can i say? i'm serious, man. what the fuck can i say? thank you... thank you... thank you.
who was there for your ass?
you were there for me.
who?
you.
you see, it works like this. you get your ass in trouble, i get your ass out. that's my job. and i don't mind tellin ya, nigga, it's steady work.
i'm still scared as a motherfucker, ordell. they talkin' like they serious 'bout me doin' that machine gun time.
naw, man. they just tryin' to put a fright in your ass.
if that's what they want to do, they're doin' it.
how old is that machine gun shit?
three years.
three years. that crime's old, man. they ain't got room in prison for all the motherfuckers out there killin' people. how they gonna find room for you?
that's not what they're tellin' me.
that's why they call it "fuckin' with ya." now you wanna hear how we retaliate?
hey, c'mon in, man. i was just -- you know -- smokin' a fatty, watchin' tv.
naw, man. i gotta be someplace. i was kinda hopin you could come with me.
what'd ya mean?
look, i hate to be the kinda nigga, does a nigga a favor -- then bam -- hits a nigga up for a favor in return. but i'm afraid i gotta be that kinda nigga.
what?
i need a favor.
that requires me goin' out tonight?
a bit.
aaaaawww man, i wasn't plannin' on goin' no place. it's twelve o'clock, man. i'm home, i'm high --
why the fuck you at home? cause i spent ten thousand dollars gittin' your ass home.  look, i gotta problem. i need help, and you can help me.
what's the problem?
well, it ain't so much a problem a a situation. remember i sold those three m-60 machine guns outta the five i got?
uh-huh.
i'm gonna sell the other two tonight. this group of koreans in koreatown have started a neighborhood watch kinda thing. and they want a few weapons so the neighborhood niggas know they mean business. so i'm gonna sell 'em my two machine guns tonight. only problem, i ain't never dealt with these koreans before. now i ain't worried. asians are by and large real dependable. they don't want no trouble. you might argue about price, but you ain't gotta worry about them shootin' you in the back. but i got me kind of a rule. never do business with nobody you ain't never done business with before without backup. that's why i need you, backup.
man, i ain't ready to be goin' out nowhere --
let me finish. can i finish?
go ahead.
fuck that shit, man. i ain't shootin' anybody.
what the fuck i tell you. you don't hafta shoot nobody. just hold the gun. they'll get the idea.
i ain't gittin' in that trunk.
we're only goin' to koreatown. you'll be in there -- ten minutes.
uh-uh. i ain't riding in that trunk no minutes. why don't i just ride with you?
you can't ride with me. the surprise effect is ninety percent of it.
well, i'm sorry, man, but i ain't gittin' in that trunk.
i can't believe you do me this way.
i ain't doin' you no way. i just ain't climbin' in that trunk. i got a problem with small places.
well, my ass has got a problem spending ten thousand dollars of my own goddam money to get ungrateful, peanuthead niggas outta jail, but i do it --
look, man, i know i owe you --
well, if you owe me, git your ass in the trunk.
i wanna help you, but i don't wanna be locked in the trunk of no car.
you think i wanted to spend ten thousand dollars on your ass?
answer the question, nigga. do you think i wanted to spend the thousand dollars on your ass? yes or no?
course you didn't.
but the only way to help you was to do that, so i did it.  okay, how 'bout this? after we're through fuckin' with these koreans, i take you to roscoe's chicken and waffles. my treat.
louis, my man. watcha doin'?
oh, i dunno. watching tv.
whatcha watchin'?
nothin' really. just kinda goin' back and forth. they had some black girl from some black show on jay leno. i watched that for a bit, but i kept flippin channels cause i didn't know who she was.
guess where i am?
i dunno.
i know you don't know. i said guess.
the moon -- i dunno
i'm talkin' to you from the comfy- cozy interior of an oldsmobile parked outside your nasty-ass welfare motel.
you're outside?
uh-huh.
c'mon in.
naw, man. i just told you, i'm comfortable. i ain't about to walk into that roach motel and get uncomfortable. you bring your ass out here.
i'm in my underwear.
then put your goddam drawers on, and get your ass out here. i got somethin' to show you.
who was that?
that was beaumont.
who was beaumont?
an employee i had to let go.
what did he do?
he put himself in a situation where he was gonna have to do ten years in the penetentiary, that's what he did.  and if you know beaumont, you know there ain't no way in hell he can do no ten years. and if you know that, you know beaumont's gonna go any goddam thing beaumont can to keep from doin' those ten years including telling the federal government everything they want to know about my ass. now that, my friend, is a clear case of him or me. and you best believe it ain't gonna be me. you know what i'm sayin'? you gonna come in on this with me, you gotta be prepared to go all the way. i got me so far over a half-a-million dollars sittin' in lockboxes in a bank in cabo san lucas. me and mr. walker make us one more delivery, i'm gonna have me over a million. you think i'm gonna let this little cheese eatin' nigga here fuck that up? shit, you better think again. 'fore i let this deal get fucked up, i'll shoot that nigga in the head, and ten niggas look just like em.  understand what i'm sayin'?
yeah.
so we on the same page then?
i follow.
hi, i'm detective mark dargus. l.a.p.d. can i ask what you have in that bag?
the usual things. i'm a flight attendant with cabo air.
i doubt it.  who's your friend?
this is special agent ray nicolet with alcohol, tobacco, and firearms. would you mind if we looked in that bag?
would i mind? do i have a choice?
you have the right to say "no." and i have the right to make you wait here with ray while i go get a warrant. and if i don't want to go through all that trouble, i could just take you in on suspicion.
suspicion of what?
i'd say there's about, oh, fifty thousand dollars here. what would you say ray?
that looks like fifty thousand dollars from here.
this is your money?
if i were to tell you "no it isn't..."
you should know if you bring in anything over ten thousand you have to declare it. you forgot or what? you could get a two hundred and fifty thousand dollar fine, plus two years in prison. now you want to talk to us about it, or you want to talk to customs?
i'm not saying another word.
hey, this is my office. there's no smoking.
arrest me.
you got a good lawyer?
can she afford a good one is the question. otherwise she'll be in sybill brand three weeks easy before the public defender gets around to her.
ever heard of a fella named beaumont livingston?
i'm not a loser.
oh, you're both? in 1985 you were flying for twa and got busted for carrying drugs. you were carrying them for a pilot husband of yours. he did time and you got off. but that ended your career with the big airlines. cut to thirteen years later. you're forty-four years of age. you're flying for the shittiest little shuttle-fucking piece of shit mexican airline that there is. where you make a whopping twelve-thousand dollars a year. that ain't a hulluva lot to show for a twenty year career. and to top it off, you're going to jail. now true, the judge, even with your prior, will probably only give you a year or two. but this doesn't seem like the time of life you got years to throw away.  now, we don't like trying losers like they're criminals. but in the absence of a criminal, we will try you. now, wasn't this money given to you by an american living in mexico by the name of cedric walker?
help yourself.
while you're at it, let me see what else is in there. you mind?
my pocketbook.
what's in it?
beauty products.
what's this?
that's my diet shit.
oh, miss brown?
yeah?
and what would this be, sweet and low?
what the fuck is that shit?
i know what it looks like.
you planted that shit on me.
look, that shit ain't mine.
it isn't enough for trafficking, but how 'bout posession with the intent to distribute?
oh, i wouldn't be so sure. what with all the cash, i think i could go with conspiracy to traffic.
i'm tellin' you, i don't know nothin' about that fuckin' shit.
you tell those guys they'll have to do one helluva lot better than that before i'll even say 'hi' to them.
well, that's the state's offer. if you plead to possession and tell l.a.p.d. what they want to know, your bond will be set at one-thousand dollars. if you don't, l.a.p.d. will request one at twenty-five thousand based on your prior record and risk of flight. if you don't post it or don't know anyone who can, you'll spend six to eight weeks in county before your arraignment comes up.
who's side are you on?
i beg your pardon?
what if i plead guilty?
and cooperate? you might get probation.
if i don't cooperate?
with the prior? you could get anywhere from a year to five depending on the judge. you want to think about it? you got two minutes before we're up.
comfortable?
the door was opened, so i just came right in.
i can see that. why?
i got some more business for ya.
oh, yeah? what did he do?
she is an airline stewardess. got caught coming back from mexico with some blow. they set her bond this afternoon at ten thousand. now, what i was thinkin', you could use the ten thousand you owe me from beaumont and move it over on to the stewardess.
the bond for possession is only a thousand.
they fuckin' wit' her. they callin' it possession with intent. a black woman in her forties gets busted with less than two ounces on her, they call that shit intent. same shit happened to a movie star. it's possession.
it still sounds high.
she had, i believe it was... fifty grand on her, too. there was a cop at the hearing. young guy with l.a.p.d. wanted her bond set at twenty- five thousand, saying there was a risk of flight. jackie being a stewardess and all.
before we start talking about stewardess, let's get beaumont out of the way first.
somebody already did.
what?
you didn't hear?
hear what?
somebody with a grudge blew beaumont's brains out -- hey, that rhymes -- blew beaumont's brains out.
did the police contact you?
very first motherfuckin' thing they did. they see i put up a big money bond on my boy, they start thinking with that where-there's-smoke-there's fire logic. they roust my ass outta bed, ten o'clock in the morning. fuckin' scare my woman, sherona, half to death. she thought they were gonna take my ass away for sure.
the stewardess. do you know her last name?
brown, jackie brown.
what does she do for you?
who says she does anything for me? she's my friend. when my friends get into trouble, i like to help 'em out.
beaumont worked for you.
that's what the police thought. i told them i'm unemployed, how could i have anybody work for me? now i bail out jackie, i'm liable to have the police on me again, huh? wanting to know was she doing things for me, was she bringing me that money!
was she?
is this, me and you, like a lawyer- client relationship? the lawyer can't tell nothing he hears?
you're not my client until you get busted and i bond you out.
if there's no -- what do you call it -- confidentiality between us? why would i tell you anything?
cause you want me to know what a slick guy you are. you got stewardesses bringing you fifty grand.
why would a stewardess bring me fifty grand?
you want me to speculate on what you do. i'd say you're in the drug business, except the money's moving in the wrong direction. whatever you're into, you seem to be getting away with it, so more power to you. okay you want another bond, and you want to move over the ten thousand you put down on beaumont to the stewardess. that means paperwork. i have to get a death certificate, present it to the court, fill out a receipt for return of bond collateral, then type up another application. an indemnity agreement --
jackie ain't got time for all that shit --
i'm telling you what i have to do. what you have to do, in case you forgot, is come up with premium of a thousand bucks.
i got it. i just don't got it on me.
well, come back when you do, and i'll bond out the stewardess.
man, you know i'm good for it. thousand bucks ain't shit.
if i don't see it in front of me, you're right. it ain't shit.
man, you need to look at this with a little compassion. jackie ain't no criminal. she ain't used to this kinda treatment. i mean, gangsters don't give a fuck -- but for the average citizen, coupla nights in county fuck with your mind.
ordell, this isn't a bar, an you don't have a tab.
just listen for a second. we got a forty-year-old, gainfully employed black woman, falsely accused --
falsely accused? she didn't come back from mexico with cocaine on her?
falsely accused of intent. if she had that shit -- and mind you, i said "if" -- it was just her shit to get high with.
is white guilt supposed to make me forget i'm running a business?
tomorrow i'll talk to your probation officer. karen's a good kid, but she's mad at you, because you lied to her. this business about your grandmother's funeral
i went. i did. i took my mother and little brother.
but you didn't ask permission. you broke a trust. if you had asked, karen probably would have let you. i'm sure she would.
i know. that's why i went.
but then you told her you were home.
sure, 'cause i didn't ask her if i could go.
i don't know. maybe it's a language problem.  anita, you ever cause this much heartache over something that could easily be avoided, i'll never write you again. you understand?
i understand.
i mean it. i don't care how many times your mother calls or how much she cries.
i understand.
then say "yes, max. i understand."
yes, max, i understand.
so you're gonna call karen tomorrow?
i'll call her.
won't forget?
i won't forget.
i can give you a lift home if you'd like?
okay.
are you really a bail bondsman?
who do you think i am?
i gave you my card there.
can i see your i.d.?
you're serious?
who put up my bond? ordell?
in cash.
can we stop for cigarettes?
sure, ever been to the riverbottom?
i don't think so.
it's okay. it's a cop hangout.
couldn't we just stop at a seven- eleven?
i thought you might want a drink?
i'd love one, but not there.
we could stop at the hilton by the airport.
is it dark?
it's kind of a sports bar
that doesn't sound dark.
why does it need to be dark?
'cause i look like i just got outta jail, that's why. you droppin' me off at home, right? there's a place by me.
great.
you gain weight?
ten pounds. i lose it and put it back on.
that's why i don't quit. if i can't fly anymore, i'm gonna have a bitch of a time gettin' my brand.
what's your brand?
davidoffs. i get 'em in mexico. they're hard to find here. i was locked up with the last two getting legal advice from a woman who was in for bustin' her boyfriend's head open with a baseball bat.
was she helpful?
she was more helpful than the fuckin' public defender.  i don't know -- i guess what i need is a lawyer, find out what my options are.
you know, i figured out the other day i've written something like fifteen thousand bonds since i've been in the business. i'd say about eighty percent of them were at least drug related. if you want, i can help you look at your options.
you're not tired of it?
i am, as a matter of fact.
what have they told you?
so far i've been told i can cooperate and get probation, maybe. or, i can stand mute and get as much as five years. does that sound right?
i'd say if you're tried and found guilty you won't get more than a year and a day. that's state time. prison.
shit.
but they won't want to take you to trial. they'll offer you simple possession, a few months of county time, and a year or two probation.  how 'bout another?
sure.
you know who put the dope in your bag?
yeah, but that's not what this was about. they were fuckin waitin' for my ass. they knew i had that money, they even knew the amount. the one who searched my bag, from l.a.p.d., dargus, hardly even looked at it. "oh, i'd say there's fifty thousand here. what would you say?" but all they could do was threaten me and hand me over to customs, and i could tell they didn't want to do that.
they wanted you to tell them what you know.
i had 'em too. i burnt those two starky and hutch motherfuckers down. then their asses lucked out and found that coke.
what did they want to know?
who gave me the money and who i was giving it to. and some guy they found in a trunk with his head blown off. said it was him who told them 'bout me.
that would be beaumont livingston.
that's him. how do you know 'em?
i wrote him on monday. they found him dead on tuesday.
ordell pick up his bond?
same as you. ten thousand.
the federal agent kinda half hinted ordell might of done beaumont.
you mentioned a guy from l.a.p.d., but you didn't mention the federal.
i didn't?
no, you didn't. what branch?
ray nicolet with alcohol, tobacco, and firearms.
he's the one who wants you.
it was the other guy who busted me.
'cause if he busted you, you'd play hell bonding out of federal court. he doesn't want you mad at him, he wants you to tell him what you know. he uses you to get a line on ordell, make a case, then take him federal. you know what ordell's into?
i have a pretty good idea. ordell ain't no bootlegger and i doubt he's smugglin' cuban cigars. so that only leaves one thing an a.t.f. man would be interested in.
i used to bring over ten thousand at a time. that's the legal limit, so i never brought more than that.
how many trips did you make?
with ten thousand? nine.
he's got that kinda money?
it's all in lock boxes in a mexico bank. but he's got a problem. he's -- what do you call it when you got money, but don't have cash?
cash poor?
that's it. he's cash poor. he kept on me till i finally said okay. i'll bring whatever fits in a nine-by- twelve envelope. i got paid five hundred dollars, and his friend, mr. walker, in mexico gave me the envelope.
if you knew bringing anything over ten thousand was against the law, why not pack a hundred grand?
whatever it was had to fit in my bag and not hit you in the face if the bag was opened. this ain't solvin' my problem. i gotta figure out a way to either keep my job or get out of trouble. i'm off today, but if i can't leave the country i'm out of a job. and if i don't got a job, i can't hire a lawyer.
ask a.t.f. they might give you permission.
yeah, if i cooperate.
well, jackie, you got caught, you're gonna have to give 'em something.
but if all i can give 'em is ordell's name -- i don't really know shit about what he does or how he does it -- that don't give me much to bargain with.
give 'em what you got. offer to help. show a willingness to be helpful. you want to stay out of jail, don't you?
what'dya think?
i think maybe i have more options than i thought.
how you doing, ms. jackie?
i was expecting you. come in.
i got some vodka in the freezer.
got some o.j.?
yeah.
well, then, why don't you be a good hostess and make me a screwdriver?
sure.
for what?
who you think got your ass outta jail?
the same guy who put me in, thanks a lot.
hey, you get caught with blow, that's your business.
i'magine they asked who you givin' it to, too.
they asked.
and what was your answer?
i said i wanted to talk to a lawyer.
you positive about that? you weren't nervous and let something slip by mistake? if you did, i ain't mad, i just gotta know.
beaumont livingston.
i knew it.
and they asked if i knew mr. walker.
yeah?
i didn't tell 'em anything.
this fella beaumont, they say what happened to him?
they told me.
where is it?
is that what i think it is?
what do you think it is?
i think it's a gun pressing against my dick.
you thought right... now take your hands from around my throat, nigga.
what the hell you doin'?
shut your ass up and grab the wall!
now, baby, that's got nothin' to do with you. i just carry that. you been listenin' to them cops too much.
the cops didn't try and strangle my ass.
damn, jackie, i was just playin' with you.
well, i ain't playin with you. i'm gonna unload both these motherfuckers, you don't do what i tell you. understand what i'm saying?
baby, i ain't come here -- she shoves both guns in ordell's back.
i said, you understand what i'm saying
i understand woman, damn!
go sit over in that chair.
i'm tellin' you, those cops been fuckin' wit your mind. they turn black against black, that's how they do.
shut your raggedy ass up and sit down.
i just came here to talk.
way i see it, me and you only got one thing to talk about. what you willing to do for me?
let's get realistic, baby. sooner or later they're gonna get around to offering me a plea deal, and you know that. that's why you came here to kill me.
baby, i didn't --
it's okay. i forgive you. now, let's say if i tell on you, i walk. and if i don't, i go to jail.
yeah?
one hundred thousand put in an escrow account in my name, if i'm convicted up to a year, or put on probation. if i have to do more than a year, you pay another hundred thousand.
i got a problem...
all your money's in mexico.
yeah.
i been thinkin about that, too, and i got me a idea.
i'll talk to the cops tomorrow and tell you if it's on.
talk to you tomorrow.
if you're having some.
i am. have a seat.
you get a chance to use it?
i felt a lot safer having it. my milk went bad when i was in jail.
black's fine.
thanks, but i have my own now.
you went out this morning and bought a gun?
what, i couldn't hear you?
you went out this morning and bought a gun.
somebody loan it to you?
yeah.
want to hear some music?
sure.
i couldn't wait till i got home last night and wash my hair.
it looks nice.
you never got into the whole cd revolution?
i got a few. but i can't afford to start all over again. i got too much time and money invested in my records.
this is pretty.
uh-huh.
who is this?
the delfonics.
'76?
'74, i think.
it's nice.
i called in sick this morning. as far as the airline knows, i'm still available.
are you?
i don't know yet. i'm going to talk with dargus and nicolet today. do what you suggested. offer to help and see what happens.
what i meant was have a lawyer do the negotiating for you.
i want to talk to them first. i know more now about ordell's money.
well, if the a.t.f. guy is the one who wants you, that'll only interest him up to a point.
it's a lot of money. about a half-a- million dollars. all of it in cabo in safe deposit boxes and more comin' in.
how'd you find that out?
he told me last night.
he called you?
he came by.
what?... what'd you do?
we talked.
he had his doubts at first. but he's always trusted me an wants more than anything to believe he still can.
why?
he needs me. without me all that money is just gonna sit over there in cabo. sugar?
no thanks. there's gotta be other ways to get it out.
how do you get it out?
same way i been doin', but first they got to let me go back to work.
you're gonna offer to set him up?
if i get let off. otherwise, fuck 'em.
it's very possible ordell's killed somebody.
i ain't goin' to jail, and i ain't doin' that probation thing again.
how do you feel about getting old?
you're not old. you look great.
i'm asking how you feel. does it bother you?
it's not really something i think about.
really?
okay, i'm a little sensitive about my hair. it started falling out ten years ago. so i did something about it.
how'd you feel about it?
i'm fine with it, or i wouldn't of done it, i did it to feel better about myself, and i do. when i look in the mirror it looks like me.
it's different with men.
you know, i can't really feel too sorry for you in that department.
my ass ain't the same.
bigger?
yeah.
does something else worry you?
i just feel like i'm always starting over. you said how many bonds you wrote?
fifteen thousand.
well, i've flown seven million miles. and i've been waitin' on people almost twenty years. the best job i could get after my bust was cabo air, which is about the worst job you can get in this industry. i make about sixteen thousand, with retirement benefits, ain't worth a damn. and now with this arrest hanging over my head, i'm scared. if i lose my job i gotta start all over again, but i got nothin' to start over with. i'll be stuck with whatever i can get. and that scares me more than ordell.
great, you're here.
hey, jackie.
let me have a word outside with agent nicolet for a moment?
take your time.
thanks.
we'll just be a minute.
can i smoke?
what's going on?
she wants to make a deal.
she sound scared?
she almost sounds scared.
what's she want?
she wants to go back to work.
what's she willing to give us?
she hasn't one into specifics yet, she's been waiting for you.
she knows it's my case?
she ain't said it, but she's not stupid, she knows it's you who wants her.
thanks for waiting, jackie. now tell me, what can we do for you?
i need permission to leave the country so i keep my job.
we can look into that.
i need it tomorrow. if i don't show up for work tomorrow, i'm fired.
you know what we want.
if i'm working, i can help you.
help us do what?
help you get ordell robbie.
oh, so now you know him?
you never asked me if i did or not.
but now you're telling us now you do.
'course i do -- i deliver money for him.
no shit. you know how he makes his money?
he sells guns.
you ever see him sell guns?
no.
then how do you know he sells guns?
he told me. besides, why else would an a.t.f. man be after him?
how can you help us?
short of wearing a wire, i'll do everything i can to help you throw his ass in jail. and in exchange for my help, i need permission to leave the country and immunity.
you don't want much, do you?
can you do it or not?
we're back.
'ola!
hey, hey, hey. i think somebody's got some new clothes.
we been shoppin'. can't have my boy running around lookin' like a bum on the street.
i didn't look like a bum.
but you did have a salvation army- thing going.
ha-ha-ha. i'm serious, you smoke too much of that shit. that shit robs you of your ambition.
not if your ambition is to get high and watch tv.
hello.  hey, jackie...  no, jackie, i didn't get your message.
i was gonna tell you...
is it ready to go?
yeah, there's another hit left.
the cockatoo inn.
the cockatoo inn? where's that?
it's right on hawthorne boulevard and manhattan beach boulevard. it's red brick...
oh, wait, you mean that place that has the big sign with a rooster on it?
it's a cockatoo.
you okay?
yeah, i'm just gettin' old. i can't smoke or laugh now it seems without coughing.
coughing opens up the capillaries. when you cough, you're getting air -- in this case smoke -- to parts of the lung that don't normally get used. coughing's good -- gets ya higher. my dad coughs when he smokes all the time.
hope you don't mind keeping him company.
no problem.
try not to rip his clothes off 'em they're new.
want a metrix?
what's a metrix?
it's like this major meal in a shake you drink instead of having a big meal.
it's a diet thing?
no, it's what body builders drink to beef up.
no thanks.
which one?
the roller disco one.
fourteen.
you're fourteen years old here?
yeah.
i thought you were sixteen.
i was pretty much the same height now as i was then.
were you a disco girl?
noooo, i was a surfer girl. besides, i was only fourteen. i couldn't go to discos.
so where did you go?
the beach. or get high, drop acid at a friend's place. i was a k.l.o.s. girl. i hated disco.
that was taken at a place called "flippers." it was in hollywood. were you in l.a. back then?
no.
where were you?
detroit.
with ordell?
we had done time together already.
were you a disco guy?
no.
c'mon, don't lie.
i don't like dancing.
did you ever go i one?
i went to a few just to meet women. but i don't like to dance, and it's so fuckin; loud. during that whole scene i just drank in bars.  who didn't make the cut?
that's a picture of me in japan.
you been to japan?
i lived there for about nine months.
you lived in japan, when?
about five years ago.
who's arm is that?
that's the guy i lived with... his name was... hirosh.
must of made quite an impression.
i never got to know him, really. i couldn't speak japanese, and his english was terrible. but i couldn't say anything, because his english was better than my japanese.
that sounds like a problem.
not really. we didn't have much to say to each other anyway. i never got to know him that well, but i knew enough to know i wasn't missing much. i keep that, because of all the fuckin' time i was there, that's the only picture i got of me in japan.  that's japan.
wanna fuck?
sure.
yeah, that really hit the spot.
now that's over, let's get to know each other.
i bet you come here on a saturday night, you need nigga repellent keep 'em off your ass.
i do okay.
you a fine lookin' woman, jackie. i bet you do a damn sight better than okay. you think anybody followed you?
i don't think so, but it don't really matter. they know i'm meeting you.
how the fuck they know that?
i told them.
you told em? you told em it's me?
they already know it's you.
well, shit. that don't mean you gotta confirm it!
look, the only way i can get permission to fly is if i agree to help them. which is what i have to appear to be doing. so i give them something they already know. you.
didja tell 'em anything else?
i told them you got a half a million dollars in mexico, and you want me to bring it here.
you told them that?
it's true, isn't it?
what the fuck's that got to do with it?
they know i'm delivering for you. i mention the half-million -- they don't give a fuck about that -- they want you with guns. so i say, well, if you want proof he's getting paid for selling them, let me bring the money in.
what did they say?
is it dead?
yeah.
well, so far he is. but you have to admit he's not too bright.
i wouldn't go so far as to say that.
he killed a man worked for him the other night.
so what are you trying to tell me? i should get out of here?
that's not what i'm saying at all.  you know where he went?
no.
he went to meet that stewardess.
does that bother you?
please.
you live with him.
i live here. he drops in and out. he tell you about that half-million dollars he's got in mexico?
uh-huh?
course he did, he tells everybody who'll listen. that's what he's doin' with this stewardess. he's scheming how he can get it over here.
and your point is?
let him and that stewardess get that money over here...
uh-huh?
...and just take it from him.
...i make two deliveries. the first one with ten thousand, like a dry run. they watch it. see how it works. then we do a second delivery, when i bring in the half mill.
naw, naw, that's too much exposure. i ain't goin anywhere near that money.
you don't have to. i told 'em you're real careful. you never pick up money yourself. you always send someone, and i never know who it is.
that's a good idea.
if you just listen, you'll see it's a damn good idea. the first time i do it they're lurking about. they see me hand the ten thousand to someone.
who?
i don't know. one of your friends.
a woman.
if you want.
yeah, i think a woman.
the next trip, when i come with all the money, it'll look like i hand it to the same one i did before...
but you don't?
no, i give it to someone else first.
and they follow the wrong one thinkin' she's bringing it to me.
that's the idea.
so we need two people, two women.
can you cover that?
i got the woman covered. where you thinkin' about doin' this?
i was thinkin' the del amo mall. in the food court.
i suppose you see a piece of this for yourself?
well, it's my plan. we're in this together.
yeah, but it's my money, and i don't need me a partner.
i ain't your partner, i'm your manager. i'm managing to get your money out of mexico, into america, in your hands, and i'm managing to do all this under the nose of the cops. that makes me your manager, and managers get fifteen percent.
managers get ten percent.
that's an agent. manager's get fifteen percent.
i'll give ya ten.
plus the same deal as before.
i can do that.
the money's in a broadway shopping bag. i get some food, and sit down here in the food court. then your girl comes -- you got somebody yet?
uh-huh.
who?
what'd you care?
look, it's my ass facin' the penitentiary. you send some hard- headed roc whore, and she fucks things up.
i ain't gonna send no roc whore. the woman's cool, i promise.
well, hello.
surprise.
i walked right past you.
i know, ignoring me. what're you up to?
catching a movie.
what'd ya see?
"american president"
how was it?
pretty good. me and annette bening are goin steady.
oh, are you? does she know that?
no...  ...i don't believe she's ever heard of me. but that doesn't mean we're not going steady.
what's up with this shit.
i think falling in live with movie stars is something that happens to a man as he gets older.
does it happen to all men?
well, i'd never be so bold as to speak for all men, but as or myself and a few of my friends, that's definitely the case. there's a lot of actresses out there you like, and there's some you have crushes on. but there's always one who you love. and with her it's sorta like going steady.
and annette's it for you?
for now. these relationships never last too long.
who was your girl before annette?
sandra bullock. you know her?
yeah, she's the girl who drove the bus in "speed." she's cute.
she's adorable. but i had to end it.
why?
i'm old enough to be her father.
how old's annette?
i don't care.
what're you, a bag lady?
i go back to work tomorrow.
you talk them into it?
they seem to like the idea.
bring the money in and they follow it?
yea, but i'm going to dress it up. put the money in a shopping bag and hand it to someone i meet here.
you don't actually do it that way?
he always just picked it up at my place. but with a.t.f. involved, i want to stage it. you know, make it look more intriguing, like we know what the fuck we're doin'. then it's up to ray nicolet, the a.t.f. guy to follow the shopping bag.
make the delivery somewhere in the mall.
right around here, in the food court.
sit down, leave the bag under the table?
will ordell go for that?
i'm helping him bring his money into america. he loves the idea. you just missed him.
he was here?
yeah, we were goin' over everything. that's why all the bags.
i called you last night.
i know, i got your message. ray wanted to have dinner. he wanted to talk about the sting we're plotting. that's what he calls it. a sting. he's being real nice to me.
you think he's got a thing for you?
maybe. but i'm thinking it might be something like he wants the money for himself.
i don't follow your logic. what does his being nice to you have to do with him wanting ordell's money?
he's setting me up to make a proposition.
i see.
you don't propose something like that unless you're pretty sure the other person's into it.
has he hinted around?
not really. but i knew this narcotics cop one time. told me that in a raid, the whole package never gets back to the station. his exact words.
you know some interesting people.
he weren't bullshittin' either, 'cause later he was suspended and forced to retire.
has nicolet told you any colorful stories like that?
he tries to act cool.
no harm in that. he's a young guy havin' fun being a cop. i know the type, trust me on this. he's more interested in ordell than the money. if he's gonna do anything suspect, it'll be cutting corners to get the conviction; but he wouldn't walk off with the money. it's evidence.
what about you max?
what? if i was in nicolet's place?
no, i mean you, right now. not it you were somebody else.
if i saw a way to walk off with a shopping bag full of money, would i take it?
you know where it came from. it's not like it's anybody's life savings. it wouldn't even be missed.
a half-a-million dollars will always be missed.
you're avoiding the question.
okay, sure. i might be tempted. especially now, since i'm getting out of the bail bonds business.
i have to stand behind all my active bonds, but i'm not writing any new ones.
why?
a lot of reasons. but the main one would be i'm tired of it.
when did you decide?
it's been a long time coming. i finally made up my mind -- i guess it was thursday.
hi, i'm max cherry. your bail bondsman.
the day you got me out of jail?
yeah, that night i went to pick up a guy. i hear he's staying at this house, so i sneak in, wait for him to come home.
wait a minute. after we were together you went and snuck into a guy's house?
uh-huh.
got another gun and a stun gun...
and went to this guy's house in el monte, and i waited for him.
what do you do when he comes home?
shoot him with the stun gun. while he's incapacitated, cuff him, take 'em to county.
you do that?
that's my job.
did you do it that night?
he never came home. but i'm sitting on the couch, in the dark, holding my stun gun and the whole house smells of mildew -- so after a couple hours i think, "what am i doing here? nineteen years of this shit? so i made up my mind, that's it.
and is that it?
more or less.
i'm not sure you answered my question.
which one?
if you had a chance, unemployed now, to walk off with a half-million dollars, would you take it?
i believe i said i'd be tempted.
don't even think about it. you could get yourself killed go to prison...
what if i've figured a way?
how was your flight?
fine.
bet you're happy to be working again.
this is a.t.f. agent ray nicolet, jackie brown, ordell robbie money exchange trial run. it's three p.m., july 4th 1997. the location is the parking structure at lax.
what are you doing?
i'm recording this.
i thought you were going to let this one through.
we are. don't worry about it.
every step of this goes in my report.  i am now taking a manila envelope from the subject's flight bag.
the envelope contains currency... all the same denomination, one-hundred- dollar bills. now, i'm counting it.
what time do you have to be there?
four thirty. i'm meeting a woman.
what's her name?
he wouldn't say. you gonna follow her?
she leaves, somebody'll be on her.
but you're not going to stop her?
the envelope contains ten thousand dollars. the subject will be delivering the currency in a...
a broadway shopping bag.
the feds. it's evidence.
it may be evidence once they get their hands on it, but right now it's only money.
he say we like the same thing as married.
do you live together?
most of the times.
not every day?
sometimes every day, for a while.
then you don't see him for a few days?
yes'm.
you know what's in the bag you're taking?
he say is a surprise.
well, sheronda, it was nice talking to you.
you're rationalizing.
that's what you do to go through with the shit you start. you rationalize. i can do this, max, i know i can. but i can't do it without you.
how much is there?
over half-million dollars worth of merchandise.
can i ask you about melanie?
sure.
what's your relationship?
she one of the women i got set up. i got melanie in hermosa beach. i rent simone a small house in compton, and about four blocks away i got me this nineteen-year-old country girl named sheronda. i found her waitin' for a bus two days outta alabama, barefoot, country as a chicken coop. took her to my house in compton, told her it was hollywood.
she believed you?
hell, yeah. to her dumb country ass, compton is hollywood. close as she's ever been, anyway.
if this is about you fucked melanie, i don't give a damn. i ain't a fool. i leave you alone with a bitch like melanie, you're gonna be fuckin' that twenty minutes after i'm out the door. so say "thank you" and i'll tell you, "you're welcome."
that's not what i meant when i asked did you trust her.
she tryin' to work your ass against me, ain't she?
yep.
you didn't even hafta say it. i know the woman.
well, why the fuck keep her around?
'cause she my fine little surfer gal. she can't do me no harm. fact she think she can play you against me shows how little she knows. you could teach that bitch for days how it is 'tween me an you, she never understand a damn word.
why do you let someone know your business you can't trust?
i don't hafta trust her, i know her.
what does that mean?
you can't trust melanie. but you can always trust melanie to be melanie.
i still don't understand why you keep her around.
i told you, man.  she my fine little surfer gal.
drink?
i need to talk to you alone.
i don't want no more fuckin' surprises. we do this the way i laid it out, or we don't do it at all.
what the hell you talkin' bout?
sheronda passin' the money onto someone else, that's what the hell i'm talkin' 'bout.
how do you know she did that?
i was there, i saw her do it.
well, you weren't supposed to be there.
i know, but i hung around, 'cause i figured you'd try an' pull some shit like this.
now, hold on there. i ain't pullin' no shit. it's my money, i can do whatever the fuck i wanna do with it.
not when it's my ass on the line you don't. we do this my way or fuck it.
nicolet and dargus stop me at the airport and mark the bills.
man, i don't like that part.
it washes off. i tell them we're doing it the same way as before. they'll follow sheronda. i hate the idea of leaving her for a fall.
she won't have no problems 'cause she don't know nothin'.
are you sure she don't know about the money?
she don't know shit about the money.
what does she think she's gettin?
i told her this is a game us rich folks play, exchanging gifts. like a scavenger hunt. she didn't know what that was neither.  no answer?
uh-huh.
hang it up, she's on her way. you gotta listen to this. this involves you.
no, you gonna give her a robinson's/may bag this time?
right, the one simone gives me. simone and i'll make the switch at robinson's/may. she knows what i look like?
she saw you with sheronda. so simone goes to the dress department with her robinson's/may bag.
designer clothes.
she waits for you to go in the place where you try things on.
the fitting room. there's a sign over the door.
so you come out with her robinson's/may bag, go meet sheronda. simone peeks out, waits for my man louis here to give her a signal nobody's watchin'. she leaves the store, gets in her car -- mission accomplished.
where you gonna be during all this?
i'm gonna be sittin' at the titty bar in downtown l.a. till my man over here calls me and gives me the o.k. sign.
who's paging you?
ray, the a.t.f. guy.
that works on my nerves, you bein' so buddy-buddy with him.
if i wasn't, this wouldn't work. now once i deliver i'll have to trust you.
well, i've been trusting you all this time, haven't i? we agreed on ten percent of what you bring in and that's what you gonna get.
and a hundred thousand if i go to jail.
we're partners, baby, sorta. i ain't gonna screw you. you haven't told me where i put it for you.
give it to the bail bondsman, max cherry. he'll take care of it.
max cherry? you and him friends now? you tell him about this shit?
he won't know where the money came from. only that it's money.
oh, hi.
buy ya a beer?
i'm waiting for the phone.
good luck. that guy's been in there since i got here.
well, i guess i better look for another one, then. thanks, anyway.
sure.
great...  ...wanda!
killian's.
better get me another sam's.  join me in a jaeger shot?
uh-uh.
gimme one anyway.
how long you been with ordell?
this time? almost a year. i've known him forever.
what were you two fighting about?
he told me to go outside.  "you may leave us now." it's all part of his pathetic attempt to be "the man." you know mr. walker don't you?
mr. walker's my buddy. ask him about ordell.
that coke was yours, wasn't it?
he said he didn't know about it.
you believe that? yeah, well, i guess you have to trust him.  i'd have second thoughts on that, but then i know 'em.
he killed a guy who works for him the other day.
beaumont livingston?
you already knew that?
kinda.
so tell me. having all that money in your flight bag -- is it tempting?
you think i'm kidding?
dreaming.
you know how easy it would be? he won't be anywhere near that mall. pull one more switch, up front. that's it. half-a-million dollars. need help?
keep it between us girls?
what's that fucker ever done for us?
i don't think so, but thanks for the beer.
ordell has a white guy working for him named louis.
you two meet?
this afternoon before i came here. he was with ordell at an apartment in hermosa beach. i don't know if he lives there, but i can find out.
you talk to him?
not really.
his full name is louis gara. he just got out from serving four years in susanville.
what for?
bank robbery? do you know what he does for ordell?
i imagine shit needs to be done.
we've been following mr. gara, and he's definitely working for ordell.
...compton with a fifty-six-year- old petty thief -- woman named simone hawkins.
ever meet her, or they talk about her?
not yet.
who's the other one?
white girl named melanie ralston. another girlfriend of ordell's.
what's her story?
it was her coke i got busted with. she knows everything, but she's not part of it, and she's pissed cause she's not part of it. ordell wouldn't even let her stay at the meeting. she tried to talk me into ripping off ordell.
and splittin' with her?
i'm sure that was the idea.
what did you say?
i smiled and walked away. she also told me ordell killed beaumont.
she told you that?
uh-huh.
was she there?
she didn't say.
but she mentioned beaumont by name?
uh-huh.
well, this sounds like a lady i'd like to have a word with. so everything's set for tomorrow?
right. everything's the same, except one change...
i told them ordell's changed the amount he's bringing in.
do you think they bought it?
oh, yeah. i got them thinking ordell's real nervous. they love thinking he's scared of them.
you know, a good cop won't let you know he knows you're fulla shit.
all he needed was a reasonable explanation.
it'll be more than that.
don't be so literal. ray believed it.
but you still have to show him the money at the airport.
well, you know i'm not going to show him the whole amount. he'll see fifty thousand.
where's the rest of it?
in the bag underneath.
what if he checks it?
he won't -- i mean, he didn't the last time. he'll be expecting fifty thousand and there it is -- on top.
you're takin' a helluva chance kid.
not really. if he finds it, i say mr. walker put the money in, and i didn't know nothing about it. like the coke.
then you're out and you get nothing.
yeah, but i'm not in jail and i tried.
you're gonna have surveillance all over you.
that's why you don't make a move till i come out of the fitting room.
in a dress.
well, a suit. there's one i had my eye on.
you said that the last time.
well, it's true, isn't it? after this is buttoned up we could meet someplace else. what do you think?
we could, if i'm not in jail.
oh, that's taken care of. i called the state attorney's office. you were no-filed this morning in circuit court.
that's fifty thousand, huh? it doesn't look like that much.
i was told ten thousand in each pack.
you didn't count it?
i never have. it's not my money.
ever been tempted?
what? to put one of these in my pocket?
uh-huh.
if i did, i'd have to give you one, wouldn't i? or we could take what we want. no one knows how much there is except us, right?
yes. all those things are true.
after all, it don't belong to nobody, right?
that would be one point of view.
yeah, well, it's not a point of view that a.t.f. shares. once we make it evidence, it belongs to us. you are now officially out of trouble. don't do nothing stupid, now.
how can i do anything if i'm being watched every second?
i'm glad you realize that. saves me the trouble of pointing it out to you.  put this in your shopping bag. it's what i expect to find when i look in sheronda's. comprende?
si.
i'm going out for a few hours.
hold on a minute.  where you going?
i'm going to del amo, see a movie, get something to eat.
watcha gonna see?
whatever looks best and starts the soonest.
have fun.
well, you the one in motherfuckin' charge.
well, she keeps saying 'in a minute.'
go in there, snatch her by the hair, and drag her big ass out. this is my goddam money we're talking about. get your ass out the door.
we're leaving now!
all right already.
can i help you?
yes, you have a suit i've had my eye on.
this looks pretty good on me.
are you kidding, it looks great. you wear this to a business meeting, you're the badass in the room. but you can go out dancing in this too. it's a total power suit.
i think i'm gonna just get this for today. i'm in kind of a hurry. would you mind ringing this up while i change out of it?
not a problem.
thanks.
jackie?
hi, melanie.
are you getting that black suit?
yeah, do you like it?
it looks good on you.
do you got something for me?
you betcha.
i put a little cherry on top. you're right. what the hell he ever do for us?
thanks.
now be careful with that bag. you don't want it ripping open on you in the middle of the store.
i'm sorry, i just decided to stay in the suit -- get out of that damn uniform.
oh, that's not a problem.
jesus christ, get a grip, louis.
we shoulda been there already and we woulda been if it hadn't been for your fuckin' around!
that's a nice outfit on her. i'm gonna go over and look at this michi moon display.
just stay right fuckin' here, all right?
are you sweating?
what are you doin'?
i'm getting out of here. what do you think?
lemme have the bag.
fuck you. i can carry it.
goddam you. gimme that bag,
watch it, dipshit. you wanna rip the fuckin' bag?
gimme that bag before i knock you out and take it.
i'm carrying it.
okay, you got it. just take a chill pill, for christ sake.
is it this aisle, lou-is?
yeah, down the end.
you sure?
is it this aisle or the next one over?
this one.
you sure?
i mean it. don't say one fuckin' word.
okay, lou-is.
it's louis.
did you get it?
i got it. listen, there's something else i have to tell you.
when i see you. pick me up at sam's. you count the money?
i haven't even looked at it yet, it's still in the shopping bag.
melanie must be dyin' to see it.  louis.
that's what i got to talk to you about. you see, melanie was giving me a hard time --
not now, pick me up.
you keep drivin' down ninth, to where they got all them car dealerships. we're gonna leave this heap in a parking lot and get one the cops don't know about.  hey, where's melanie?
that's what i gotta tell you. she bugged me the whole time. got pissy with me 'cause i wouldn't let her carry the bag. started running her fuckin' mouth... i couldn't remember right away when we came out where the car was parked, so she got on me about that. "is it this aisle lou- is, is it that one?" she was totally fuckin' with my nerves.
so what, you left her there.
i shot her.
you shot melanie?
twice. in the parking lot.
couldn't talk to her?
you know how she is.
you couldn't just hit her?
maybe... but at that moment... i dunno...
you shot her twice?
uh-huh.
so you're sure she's dead.
pretty sure.
where did you shoot her?
in the chest and stomach.
well, if you had to do it, you had to do it. what we don't want is that bitch surviving on us. anybody but that woman.
louis?
what?
where's the rest of it?
how much it there?
maybe forty, maybe not that much.
you said five hundred and fifty!
so you light, ain't you. you light about a half-a-million.
look, that's the bag she came out with. she never even put her hand in it, and neither did i.
came outta where?
the fitting room. it went down exactly the way it was supposed to.
how long was she in there?
maybe a minute. she came right out.
louis, you tellin' me the truth?
look, i swear to fucking god, she came out with that bag and i took it from her.
then what?
we went to the parking lot.
where you shot her.
that's right.
you sure she ain't somewhere with a half-a-million dollars i worked my ass off to earn?
fuck you for asking me that.
pull the car over.
what'd you shoot her with?
it's in there.
okay, so it was jackie brown.
if she's got it, why didn't she take it all?
'fore i blow that bitch's brains out, i'll ask her.
maybe the feds got it.
if there were nothin; in here but towels, maybe she didn't get a chance to take it from her suitcase and a.t.f. got it. but, she put these fuckin' books in here to trick our ass.
that's why i never checked it. the bag felt right.
then she throws forty thousand in here, to rub the shit in my face, know what i'm saying? she wants me to know she ripped me off.
i don't know. either she has it or the feds.
or...  ...she gave it to somebody else first, before melanie went in the dressing room.
jesus christ.
what?
you know who i saw in the dress department?
tell me.
i didn't really think anything of it. no -- i did wonder what he was doing there, but didn't think it had anything to do with us. you know like maybe he was there with his wife or girlfriend.
you gonna tell me who it was?
max cherry.
you see max cherry in the dress department. we're about to be handed half-a-million dollars -- man, look at me when i'm talking to you! and you don't think nothing of him being there!
do max cherry and jackie brown know each other?
hell, yes, they know each other. he bonded her out of county.
how am i supposed to know that?
you know the motherfucker's a bail bondsman, don't ya? you know every last one of them motherfuckers is crooked as hell?
why should i think anything's weird, if i don't know nothin' about them knowing each other?
man, i don't want to hear your fuckin' excuses!
i ain't givin' you fuckin' excuses, i'm givin' you reasons.
oh, you gonna tell me the reason you lost all the goddam money i got in the world! let me tell you the reason, motherfucker! the reason is, your ass ain't worth a shit no more!
i thought i did.
you didn't. i would think with all this on your mind, you'd wait till after.
i got there early. i've had my eye on this suit -- wait, let's start over. i got there early. the idea was to try on the suit, see if i liked it. if i did, get them to wrap it up, and change back into my uniform. that's what sheronda's expecting me to wear. go meet sheronda, give her the bag with fifty thousand, and go home.
but you didn't do that.
because i didn't have it. ray, i swear, melanie came in and grabbed it.  and someone killed her for it.
where's the bag she gave you?
she didn't give me one. i told you before, melanie wasn't part of the plan. ordell must of told her to do it. she bursts in, grabs the shopping bag, and takes off. what am i supposed to do, go after her? i'm in my fucking underwear. i had to get dressed before i could do anything. so i put this back on 'cause could put this on faster than i could my uniform.
you took the time to pay the saleswoman.
i had to. i was frantic. i didn't know what to do.
what did you do after that?
i went looking for you. i went straight to the bookstore, 'cause that's where you were last time, but you weren't there. how the hell else am i supposed to let anybody know what happened? you didn't tell me how to do that, did you? i knew i was under surveillance, so when i couldn't spot anybody, i started yelling.
there was a guy with melanie?
not in the fitting room.
we had our agent on you. she sees a blonde come out of the fitting room carrying a robinson's/may bag and tussle with a tough-looking white guy. the white guy takes the shopping bag and they go.
this guy with melanie, that was louis gara?
i didn't see him. i was in my underwear. if it was a white guy, it was probably louis. he kill melanie?
it's possible. you're saying you don't have any idea what happened to that fifty thousand?
i have no idea.
you'd take a polygraph on it?
if it'll make you happy.
i sure hope you haven't done anything dumb jackie.
can i have a word with you?
sure.
louis gara's dead. l.a.p.d. found him dead in a car on ninth. and we've lost ordell.
i thought you were watching him.
we were, and we lost him. he walked into a strip bar sometime around three thirty and never came out. the bar was on ninth, less than a mile- and-a-half from where louis was found dead. it looks like louis's friend shot him twice at point blank range.
so what happens now?
we pick up ordell. we've got three murders we can link him to. we have the storage unit where he keeps his guns, by tomorrow we'll have a search warrant to go in and get him. and we have you.
what about me?
what about you?
do you think i took some of that money?
i have no evidence of your taking anything. you didn't pay for your snazzy new suit with marked bills; i was glad to see that. you've been helping us out, you gave us melanie and louis. melanie had a packet of marked bills stuffed in her shorts when they found her, which goes a long way backing up your story.
cherry bail bonds.
let me speak to max cherry.
he ain't here right now.
he leave town?
he's around.
give me his home number.
i'll give you his beeper.
you know who this is?
mister robbie, isn't it? i have the ten thousand you put up. isn't that why you called.
the bond collateral on beaumont livingston you moved over to cover miss brown, remember?
she got off, huh?
they decided to no-file. tell me where you are and i'll bring you your money.
you still there?
looky here, i know you helped her and i know you know what i want. jackie can tell me any story come in that pretty head of hers. long as at the end of that story, she hands over my money. she do that, we're still friends. now, she don't wanna be my friend no more, tell her to think about ol' louis. and if she tries to turn me in, i'll name her ass as my accessory. we'll go upstate together. hand in handcuffed hand. now that shit's a promise, understand what i'm sayin'? you tell her that, and i'll call you back.
you're right, that was ordell. you have time, you think you could find out for me where he's staying?
cops can't locate him, huh?
they don't have your winning personality.
sure thing. i don't have to know what i'm doing, long as you know.
i think i do. is that good enough?
how'd you find out?
all winston had to do was ask around. ordell's living in long beach with a woman junkie.
how does winston find him if a.t.f. and all the local police can't?
people talk to winston. he's street, same as them, they trust him. they get busted, they know somebody who can bond them out. i thought i might drop in on him. he'll no doubt be surprised to see me.
he's liable to shoot you.
on the phone i told him i have the ten thousand he put up for your bond. i could bring the money and the papers for him to sign. walk out and call the sheriff's department.
ray wants him.
everybody wants him, he's a homicide suspect. it doesn't matter who brings him in, he's gonna name you as an accessory.
that's why a.t.f.'s gotta make the case. i'm their witness. they wouldn't have a case without me. if it's his word against mine, who are they gonna believe?
it's not that simple.
it never was, so i'm not gonna start worrying about it now. look, ray more or less believes my story, and he more or less doesn't care. all he really gives a shit about is getting ordell.
so how do we give ordell to nicolet?
get ordell to come to your office.
set him up.
uh-huh.
tell him you want to see him?
tell him i want to give him his money.
why?
i've chickened out. i'm afraid of him. he'll like that.
what do you tell nicolet?
ordell called and wants to meet me and i'm scared.
we get ordell to come to my office. nicolet -- is he already there, or does he come busting in while we're chatting?
he's already there.
what if he hears something he's not supposed to?
well, we don't let that happen, now do we?
what the fuck you doin' knockin on the door like the goddamn police? you lookin' to get shot?
i thought you might be asleep.
you keep fuckin' with me, you're gonna be asleep forever.
i'm alone.
git your ass in here.
that's all?
i have a bond receipt for you to sign.
you know what the fuck i'm talkin' about. you talk to her?
she wants to give you your money. if she didn't, there'd be cops batter- ramming the door right now.
how'd you find me?
winston found you.
how the fuck did he find me?
that's what winston does. he finds people who don't want to be found.
well, bully for that nigga. you say she wants to give me the money, huh?
uh-huh.
well, give it to me then.
she wants to give it to you herself and collect her ten percent. she also wants to explain why she had to hold on to it.
i'd like to hear that too. turn around and put your hands on your head.
jackie didn't trust melanie. she'd already tried to get jackie to go in with her, split the half million amongst themselves. what she did was take quite a risk to see you get your money.
lift up your pant leg. you help her?
all i did was walk out with it.
and you did that to protect my interest?
in a way, yes.
my ass be dumb, but i'm not a dumbass. go sit over there on the couch.
this place stinks.
you get used to it after a while. now tell me where my money's at.
my office.
and where's jackie?
she's been there since thursday night.
she wanted to see me, why wasn't she home?
she was afraid.
that i gotta see.
she still is. she doesn't want to get shot before she can tell you what happened.
have her bring the money here.
it's in the safe. she can't get at it.
call her, tell her the combination.
i'm telling you, you got her spooked. she won't leave there till you have your money and you're gone.
you expect me to just walk in there?
if she wanted to set you up, you'd be in custody right now. when you said you'd name her as an accessory she believed you. that scares her more than anything.
that's why she's givin' up my money huh? not that bullshit about melanie. i didn't trust her ass neither, but i knew how to handle her. she was my blonde-headed little surfer gal. i fuckin' told louis he could've just given her a punch in the mouth, he didn't need to shoot her. she's at your office.
uh-huh.
by herself. that big mandingo nigga winston ain't there, is he?
she's all alone.
i call your office, she better answer the phone.
she will.
it's the next street.
i know where it is.
turn left.
i know where to turn.
my money's in that office, right?
uh-huh.
she starts givin' me some bullshit about it ain't there. it's somewhere else and we can go get it.  i'm shootin' you in the head right then and there. then i'm gonna shoot her in the kneecap, find out where my godamn money is. i go walkin' in there and that nigga winston or anybody else is in there, you're the first man shot, understand what i'm sayin'?
yeah.
now, is there anything you want to tell me before we get out of this car?
no.
you sure?
yes.
you better be, motherfucker.
does he have the marked bills on him?
in his inside coat pocket.
why were you with him?
i went to give him his refund, so he wouldn't have to come here.
how'd you know where he was?
i found out.
and you didn't tell the police?
i told jackie, and jackie said you wanted him.
i got your package. it was fun getting a half-a-million dollars in the mail.
less ten percent.
yeah, your fee. i had to figure that out, since there wasn't no note.
only this isn't a bail bond, max.
i hesitated taking that much.
you worked for it -- if you're sure that's all you want.
i'm sure.
i saw ray the other day. boy is he pissed he missed all the excitement.
what's he doing?
he's on to a new thing. he's after a guy who owns a gun shop he says is "woefully and wantonly" selling assault rifles to minors. he says he's gonna take him down if it's the last thing he does.
did you tell him you were leaving?
i told him i might.
that's ordell's.
they've confiscated all his other stuff. but this one's sorta left over. the registration's in the glove box, the keys were under the seat... what's a matter, haven't you ever borrowed someone's car?
not after they're dead.
i didn't use you, max.
i didn't say you did.
i never lied to you.
i know.
we're partners.
i'm fifty-five-years old. i can't blame anybody for anything i do.
do you blame yourself for helping me?
i'd feel a whole lot better if you took some more money.
you'll get over that.
where're you going?
spain.
madrid or barcelona?
start off in madrid. ever been there?
wanna go?
thanks, but you have a good time.
sure i can't twist your arm?
thank you for saying that, but no. my business.
i thought you were tired of your business?
i'm just tired in general.
are you scared of me?
