how come the sun did not used to shine in here?
'cause when we bought the house it was autumn. this is summer. feed the dogs.
right.
do you see the kids?
probably out in the back yard.
in amity, you say 'yahd.'
the kids are in the yahd, playing near the cah. how is that sound?
like you are from n'yawk.
give me 30 years, I will get it.
did you burn another kettle? y'know you are a fire hazard? this is the third one!
i never hear the whistle.
feed the dogs.
you want to go through those?  I am taking them to the thrift shop. it is marcia vaughn's pet charity. pick out what you want to keep -- it is mostly your city clothes.
i used to wear this to the garden. garbage strikes. dog shit. muggers.  ship it.
do not be silly - you are going to make summer better for them...
cut my hand. hit by a vampire.
on the swing? i told you not to play near there until i sanded it down.  see what your son did?
do not forget these.
oh, yeah.  how do i look? older, huh?
i think they make you look sexy.
sexy, hm? what was i before?
older, sillier.
i do not want to depend on these things, y'know - sometimes you can weaken your eyes.
be careful.
here? you got to be kiddin'.
love ya.
hey chief. bring my cup back.
christine what?
worthingsly... worthington -- no one ever died on me before.
you picked her up on the ferry.
i did not know her.
and nobody else saw her in the water?
somebody could have -- i was sort of passed out.
think she might have run out on you?
oh, no, sir. I have never had a woman do that. I am sure she drowned.
you from around here?
no. cambridge. harvard. my family's in tuxedo, new york, though.
you here for the summer?
some friends and me took a house.
what d'you pay for a place just for the summer?
a thousand apiece, something like that. there is five of us. and we each kick in a hundred a week for beer and cleaning, stuff like that.
pretty stiff.
where did you hide the 'beach closed' signs?
we never had any. what is the problem?
polly told me to tell you there is a scout troop in avril bay doing the mile swim for their merit badges. i could not call them in, there is no phone out there.
get out of there  take these back to the office and make up some 'beach closed' signs, and let polly do the printing.
what is the matter with my printing?
what have you got there, lenny?
we had a shark attack at south chop this morning, mayor. fatal. gotta batten down the beach.
who have you told this to, lenny?
i just found out about it -- but there is a bunch of boy scouts in the water a coupla miles down the coast from where we found the girl. avril bay, thereabouts. chief went to dry them off.
take my car, okay?  you come with us, lenny.
I have got all these signs here...
c'mon, it will give us time to think about what they are going to say.
martin!  are you going to shut down the beach on your own authority?
do i need any more authority?
now tell me something i do not know.
all I am saying is that amity is a summer town -- we need summer dollars, and if they can not swim here, they will use the beaches at cape cod, or long island.
so we should set out a smorgasbord?
we are not even sure what it was.
what else could have done that?
...and bill mayhew almost caught him in his net...?
doctor, you are the one who told me what it was!
i do not think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these things.
i was only reacting to what i was told.
i can not work in a vacuum. why do not you make hendricks chief? his family's been here since the puritans -- half this island are his cousins.
martin, we hired the best man we could find.
you are very tight, y'know?  right there.
ow.  he is got to be more careful in the water...
look, I have got to talk to her. this is not a contest we want the whole country entering.
i agree. if she is going to advertise, i would not recommend out-of-town papers. amity people could take care of this.
I am responsible for public safety around here...
I would like to tell you what we are doing so far. these are some of the steps I have taken as chief of police...
what is going on with the beaches, chief?
I will get to that in a minute. first, i plan to start our seasonal summer help early, and to use shark spotters on beaches open to the sea. I would like cooperation from local fishermen, and I have also contacted the oceanographic institute over on the mainland.
no need to involve outsiders in our business, martin.
only 24 hours!
i did not agree to that!
can you stand something to eat?
love a cup of tea. with lemon.
mikey loves his birthday present.
where is he?
he is sitting in it.
son! -- out of the water now!
my boat's neat, dad!
i want him out of the ocean.
it is three feet deep, martin
michael! come inside!
it is his birthday present, and you closed the beach, honey. i told him not to go in the water after what happened yesterday. i do not believe he will ever do it again.
i told him not to go out until he memorized the handbook and the safety safety regulations, until he was sure of himself...
you wanna call it a night after here?
it is only two-thirty. what, are you tired?
yeah, charlie, i got my second wind three nibbles back.
leg of lamb this time?
screw lamb -- let's shoot the sirloin!
we are blowin' half the bounty on bait --
one more after this, then I am going home.
set?
you do this all the time, right, charlie?
twenty years.
i can not believe that people pay money to go fishing. this is really dumb. this is not even relaxing... it is just boring.
look at him take it!
do i set the goddam hook?
let him do it! go-go-go-go-go!
...so then denherder and charlie sat there trying to catch their breath, and figuring out how to explain to charlie's wife what happened to her freezer full of meat.
that was not funny.
mrs. kintner must have put her ad in field and stream.
looks more like the readers of the national enquirer.
there is a fantail launch out there that will not make it beyond the breakwater.
you are tellin' me. i swear, this town has gone crazy.
officer, i wonder if you could tell me where i could find chief brody?
who are you?
hooper, matt hooper. from the oceanographic institute.
...height and weight may only be estimated from partial remains. torso severed in mid-thorax, eviscerated with no major organs remaining. may i have a drink of water? right arm severed above the elbow with massive tissue loss from upper musculature. portions of denuded bone remaining.  -- did you notify the coast guard?
no, it was local jurisdiction.
left arm, head, shoulders, sternum and portions of ribcage intact.  please do not smoke. with minor post- mortem lacerations and abrasions. bite marks indicate typical non-frenzy feeding pattern of large squali, possibly carchaninus lonimanus, or isurus glaucas. gross tissue loss and post-mortem erosion of bite surfaces prevent detailed analysis; however, teeth and jaws of the attacking squali must be considered above average for these waters.  -- did you go out in a boat and look around?
no, we just checked the beach...
it was not an 'accident,' it was not a boat propeller, or a coral reef, or jack the ripper. it was a shark. it was a shark.
well, if one man can catch a fish in 50 days, then i guess 50 of these bozos can catch a fish in one day -- beginner's luck.
you did it! did ben gardner catch this?
larry, if you would see these clowns leave, you would never believe they would come back with anything. but they got him!
that is good. that is real good. ben meadows getting pictures for the paper.
sure he is.
who is that young man?
matt hooper, the specialist they send down from the oceanographic institute.
i think we all owe a debt of gratitude to these men for catching this monster.
i did not say this was not the shark, i just said i was not sure this was the one...
what d'ya mean?
there are hundreds of different kinds of sharks; makos, blues, hammerheads, white-tips... any one of them could have attacked. look -- shark digestion is slow. we could open this one up, and find whatever he is been eating is still inside.
that is disgusting! this is the largest, meanest, most vicious shark ever landed off amity island, and a known maneater!
let's just cut him open and see what is inside...
why not, larry? we could get a positive confirmation that way.
be reasonable, boys -- this is not the time or the place to do some kind of half-assed autopsy on a fish. ben...  do you have all the pictures you need?
I am sorry, martin. she is in a sick, terrible state.
look, maybe this is the wrong time to pursue this, but I am not sure...
she is right.
let's all get out of here, this place stinks.
I am going home.
hi. I am matt hooper. if your husband is here, I would like to talk to him.
so would i. come on in.
would you like something? some coffee?
is anyone having this...?
dynamite!  how was your day...?
swell.
my husband tells me you are in sharks.
i would not put it that way. but i love sharks.
you love sharks?
i do.  but you have still got a problem here, there is a shark just off the island somewhere.
how come you have to tell them that?
excuse me, but what are you talking about? did not they catch the shark this afternoon? it was on the cape station news.
we ought to let it breathe... whatever.
let's all have a drink.
you too, sweetheart...
thank you.
here's to your husband, the only other rational man on the island. day after tomorrow, I will be gone, and he will be the only one.
you are leaving?
going out on the 'aurora.'
is that a boat?
is it! the best-funded research expedition to ever study the shark... around the world in 18 months.
like those cousteau specials on television? i think it is for the kids, but i love them.
better than cousteau, or compagno with computers, telemetry, defense department funding...
i saw a show with sea otters, and a big turtle... mikey loved it. made me promise to get him one. will you live on the boat?
yep.
martin hates boats. hates the water. on the ferry to the mainland, he sits in the car the whole way over. he is got this childhood thing, there is a clinical word for it.
drowning. lemme ask you something. is it true most attacks take place in three feet of water, around 10 feet from the beach?
yeah. like the kid on your beach. i wish i could have examined that shark they caught...
something else. do most attacks go unreported?
about half of them. a lot of 'missing swimmers' are really shark victims.
there is a kind of a lone shark, called, uh...
rogue?
yeah. rogue. picks out an area where there is food and hangs out there as long as the food supply lasts?
it is called territoriality. it is a theory.
and before 1900, when people first starting swimming for recreation, before public bathing and resorts, there were very few shark attacks, cause sharks did not know what they were missing?
you could say that.
why do not we have one more drink, you and i, and then we go down and cut open that old shark and see for sure what is inside him, or not.
can you do that?
i am chief of police. i can do anything i want.  you want to come?
...and it was dartmouth winter weekend, and she was homecoming queen, and i was her date; then she got into the fact that her family had more money than my family, and she was right -- her great-grandfather was in mining, and my ancestors were yankee shipbuilders. so we broke up and i went home with some beatnik from sarah lawrence.
what stinks so bad?
our friend, the shark.
what is that?
half a flounder. hmmm... a burlap bag... a paint can... aha!
what? what?!
just as i thought. he drifted up here with the gulf stream, from southern waters.
how can you tell?
florida license plate.
he ate a car?
no, but tiger sharks are the garbage cans of the ocean. they eat anything. but this one did not eat any people. there is nothing here...
...nothing.
what do we do?
if you are looking for a shark, you do not look on land. you go out and chum for him.
chum?
only one sure way to find him -- offer him a little something to eat. chum -- blood, waste meat, fish, anything. they can sense it miles away. if he is out there, we might be able to get a closer look at him.  it is a good time, too. they are night feeders...
what is all this stuff?
depth-finder, fathometer, sonar, closed-circuit tv -- fore and aft -- rdf, single side band...  and two loose nuts behind the wheel.
can you tell from that if a big man- eater is around?
sometimes.  look here -- something big, probably a school of mackerel clumped together. and staying right with us.
where did you get all this?
i bought it.  both sets of grandparents set up trust funds for me; stocks went up, so i do not have to touch my principal.
you are at the institute full time? or do you have a job?
it is a job. I am not fooling around like some amateur. it is my life!
we gotta get back soon...
what happened?
i want to check something. hold my feet.
do not they have lifejackets or something? an extra boat?
they must have hit something.
he did not have a dinghy aboard. I am going down to take a look at his hull.
why do not we just tow it in?
we will. there is something I have got to find out.
be careful, for chrissake.
you all right?
a white! a great white, i found a tooth buried in the hull. he must have attacked... i knew it... gardner's dead in there. i did not see the mate...
no shark did that to a boat!
there is a kind of shark called a great white shark that every expert in the world agrees is a maneater.
you are situation here suggests that a great white has staked out a claim in the waters around amity island, and that he will continue to feed here as long as there is food in the water.
there is no limits to where he can strike, and we have had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. it happened like this before, in 1916, when a great white killed five swimmers at jones beach, in long island.
a shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming -- you can not avoid it!
a 4th of july beach is like ringing a dinner bell, for chrissake!
i just pulled a shark tooth the size of a shot glass out of the hull of a wrecked boat out there.
we towed ben gardner's boat in, larry; he was dead and his boat was all chewed up.
is that tooth here? did anyone see it?
i do not have it.
he lost it on the way up.
what kind of a shark did you say it was?
carcaradon carcharias. a great white.
well, I am not going to commit economic suicide on that flimsy evidence. we depend on the summer people for our lives, and if our beaches are closed, then we are all finished.
we have got to close the beaches. we have got to get someone to kill the shark, we need non-corrosive mesh netting, we need scientific support... it is going to cost money just to keep the nuts out and save what we have.
i do not thing either of you is familiar with our problems...
I am familiar with the fact that you are going to ignore this thing until it swims up and bites you on the ass! there are only two ways to solve this thing: you can kill it, or you can cut off its food supply...
that means closing the beaches.
sick vandalism! brody, that is a deliberate mutilation of a public service message! i want those little paint-happy bastards caught and hung up by their baby buster browns!
that is it! I am standing here arguing with a guy who can not wait to be a hot lunch. goodbye.
wait a minute! i need you.
out there is a perfect engine, an eating machine that is a miracle of evolution -- it swims and eats and that is all. look at that! those proportions are correct.  i know sharks.
you would love to prove that. getting your name in the national geographic.
larry, we can re-open the beaches in august.
august! tomorrow is the 4th of july, and we are going to open for business. it is going to be our best summer in years. if you are so concerned about the beaches, you two, you do whatever you have to to keep them safe, but with you or without you, the beaches stay open this weekend.
i hope we get some more help.
i wish it would rain...
you are not going to the ocean with that, are you son?
I am all checked out for light surf and look at it.
do me this favor just once. use the ponds.
dad, the ponds are for old ladies.
just a favor for your old man.
sure, dad.
my cars. and a comic book.
here --  take him home.
home... new york?
no. home here.
got a pen on you?
why?
there is only one thing you are good for anymore -- signing a damn voucher. here. it is an authorization to employ a contractor.
i do not know if i can do that without a...
I am going to hire quint to kill the fish. i want to see that shark dead.
maybe we can save august...
forget it. this summer's had it. next summer's had it. you are the mayor of shark city. you wanted to keep the beaches open. what happens when the town finds out about that?
i was acting in the town's best interests...
the best interest in this town would be to see that fish belly-up in the water with a hole in his head. you do the right thing. you authorize me.  right there. whatever it costs.
my kids were on that beach...
just sign it, larry.
this has got to be one big violation...
this is quite a place.
did you bring a check?
what?
cash? or do we do this on a handshake and a promise?
I am authorized by the township of amity to hire you as an independent contractor. we will meet your price. $10,000.
and my regular daily rate -- $200, whether we catch him or not.
you got it.
and incidental damages, if any...
you got it.
and you get the mayor off my back with this zoning crap. nobody tells me how to run my property.
you got it.
and, uh, a case of apricot brandy and you buy the lunch.
two cases. and dinner when you land.
try some of this. i made it myself.
this is matt hooper...
i know who he is...
he is from the oceanographic institute.
I have been to sea since i was 12. I have crewed three trans-pacs --
transplants?
-- and an america's cup trials...
I am not talking about day sailing or pleasure boating. I am talking about working for a living. sharking.
and I am not talking about hooking some poor dogfish or sand shark. I am talking about a great white.
are you now. i know about porkers in the water --  here. tie me a sheepshank.
i do not need to pass basic seamanship.
let me see your hands...
ha. city hands. you been counting money. if you had a $5000 net and $2000 worth of fish in it, and along comes mr. white, and makes it look like a kiddy scissors class has gone to work on it and made paper dolls. if you would ever worked for a living, you would know what that means.
look, i do not need to hear any of this working class hero crap. some party boat skipper who is killed a few sharks...
hey. knock it off. i do not want to have to listen to this while we are out there...
what do you mean 'we...?'
it is my charter. my party.
all right, commissioner. but when we are on my ship, i am master, mate and pilot. and i want him...  ...along for ballast.
you got it.
hey, squirt! you want to stow this gear or you want me to use it for ballast? it am not good for much but bait.
I will see ya. tell dorothy hello.
hello, junior. what are you? some kind of half-assed astronaut?  jesus christ, when i was a kid, every little squirt wanted to be a harpooner or a sword fisherman. what d'ya have there -- a portable shower?
anti-shark cage.
who is inside, you or the shark?
colorful, is not he?
you going to be all right?
nothing to worry about -- I will survive this.
I will see you back soon. there is an extra pair of glasses in your black socks, and there is some suntan lotion and blistex in your kit.
yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum.
what will i tell the kids?
tell 'em i went fishin'!
what is that supposed to prove?
just a little appetizer. i want our porker to know we are serving. i want to put some iron into that big yap...
keep that chum line going -- we have got five good miles. do not break it.
who is driving the boat?
nobody. we are drifting with the current.
nothing. nothing, nothing, nothing.
hell, in the old days we went out with good charts, good sounding lead, and a damn good compass. nowadays, these kids are afraid to go out without depth finders, radar, radio, electric toothbrush, every stupid thing...
watch it! compressed air -- you screw around with one of those and boom! careful, huh?
real fine stuff but it will not mean a thing to mr. whitey, of course... he did not go to schools in electronics. he was born with what he does best. eat. he is a swimming appetite. 'course he might eat this stuff, but then I have seen him eat a rocking chair, too.  next time, ask me.
that is pilot whale, is not it?
it am not a big mac.  the expert do not approve. what do you thing? you are closer to the situation.
why are we way out here, when the shark's back there?
...'cause this is where he lives. you got to think like they do.
you got it?
get behind me, dummy!  reverse her and turn -- he is taking too much line!  wet my reel, quick!
hey, you! farmer! half-speed there...
aye, aye sir. stand by to repel boarders. poop the mainsail. argh, jim boy.
gettin' ready to run again -- no? no?  what is he playin' here?  put the gloves on!  let's see who is going to tease who now!
let it go, do not waste your time.
down here, hooper!
i do not know what it is, but it is not a shark.
look -- you may be a big yahoo in the lab, but out here you are just supercargo, and you will do as i say, or you can take your gear and backstroke home. now get down here!
the wire's showing!
unbuckle me -- fast!  grab the leader. he am not normal, this one... they never --
a marlin, or a stingray. huh. do not ever tell me my business again. get back up on the bridge.
I am okay...
fasten the pole.
what is the point with hooks and lines? --
do not tell me my business!  quarter-mile, that way. full throttle.
how -- if they are going to keep on breaking?
what i do is trick him to the surface, got that? then i can jab him, understand?  think I am going to haul it in as if he is a catfish, like everyone else does?
over there!
what do you see?
at least you handle the boat all right. stop. here... cut the engine.
20 feet, if it is an inch...
25 feet. and three tons of him there.
i never saw one that big.
what do we do? get some help? radio in?
...push this? oh. it is working. hello, martin?
this is quint, missus.
i just wanted to know if you were all right... the coast guard let me use their radio. is chief brody there?
he is busy.
well... is everything all right?
just fine, missus. we will be back soon. everything's fine. we have not seen anything yet. orca out.
why do not we go in? get another crack at him tomorrow.
we got a barrel on him. we can not lose him. we stay out here until we find him.
let's call in -- we can radio and have a big boat here in an hour...
you hired me, remember? it is my $10,000. it is my shark...
wire burn. trying to stop a backstay from taking my head off.
moray eel. bit right through a wet suit.
face and head scars come from amateur amusements in the bar room. this love line here...  ...that's from some crazy frenchie come after me with a knife. i caught him with a good right hand right in the snot locker and laid him amongst the sweetpeas.
ever see one like this?
bull shark scraped me while i was taking samples...
nothing! a pleasure scar. look here --
I will drink to your leg.
and I will drink to yours.
...mako. fell out of the tail rope and onto the deck. you do not get bitten by one of those bastards but twice -- your first and your last.
i think i can top that, mister...
look a' that -- bayonet iwo jima.
c'mon. middle appendix --
i almost had 'im.
what is that one, there?
tattoo. had it taken off.
do not tell me -- 'death before dishonor.' 'mother.' 'semper fi.' uhhh... 'don't tread on me.' c'mon -- what?
'u.s.s indianapolis.' 1944.
what is that, a ship?
you were on the indianapolis? in '45? jesus...
what the hell?
it is a whale out there.
he is busting the shaft! start the pump!
where...?
the bilge pumps. there --
easy! it will tear right out!
the shaft is giving.
that is it! radio in for help!
shut up! just pump her out!
yeah, captain, as soon as i make a call.
coming right to us!
no -- comin' right at us! slow ahead, he will hit us head on --  slower! throttle back ---
did you get him in the head?
no! no! no!  swing around! after him!
do not shoot him any more! he is crazy on his own blood already!
i can not stand here doing nothing!
what about us?
have to pump her steady, s'all.
he is heading under -- !
no way! he can't!
he can not stay down with three barrels on him! where is he?!
have you ever had one do this?
no!
follow him!
he is under!
he is trying to sink us!
dead astern! zig-zag!
he is chasing us! i do not believe it.
full throttle! to port!
what can that gun of yours do?
power head with 20 ccs of strychnine nitrate. if i can hit him. i can kill him. but i gotta be close. very close.
he is comin' up -- !
he is taken him!
quint...?
no...  you think we can get back with those?
what day is this?
wednesday... no, it is tuesday, i think.
think the tide's with us?
just keep kicking.
y'know, i used to hate the water...
i can not imagine why.
