you can drive down there, sir ..
I am already walking. where is it?
on the infill. the guy from l.a.'s just gone down there ..
he has? .. what is he doing here?
he was waiting for you, sir. wait- ed a good while. said he would go down and take a look. i hope that is o.k.
damn a, it is o.k. with a bit of luck I am goin home. what we got?
a derelict.
where do you fit in, trimble?
his father's the manager, sir. the kid was up there shooting vermin, and he found the body.
did you bring it with you?
i hope I am not intruding?
be my guest. what you got?
old guy, offed himself with a knife. i can not find the knife.
i wonder what would make him do a thing like that?
do not annoy me, travis.
no, sir.
i dunno .. guess the dozer musta shifted him? you need some hands up here to look ..
you heard. look for the knife.
no, sir. i have not started till monday. I am a "tourist."
"welcome to eureka."
week or two.  musta been on the ker- osene.  stinks like a diesel engine.
fucken noddle's hanging off ..
mr blattis, of our local news- paper. you sure it is a suicide?
uh huh .. he is well rehearsed ..
what does that mean, sergeant?
cut your own throat, you are ner- vous about it, tend to hesitate. he is got three trial cuts, lower left side of the neck, before he works up courage for the big one.
alright, gentlemen, I am going to leave you. i got a couple of questions for the paper, serg- eant? mind if i swing by later, wring out a tea-bag with you?
my pleasure .. who is popeye?
your predecessor. he did- n't like to get outta bed. catch you later, freddy t ..
so what happened to the barbecues, and fishing?
watch my lips, coz you are not going to believe this - this is a rare occurrence. we have not had a body in eighteen months.
what about that kid, ross?
oh, shit. of course. the kid.  travis. find that kid and get the knife off him. he is going to lie to you - but he is got it - so get it. well, go on, get on with it. whatta you staring at?
i think i found some- thing horrible, sir
whatta you mean, "horrible?"
i think I have found a hand.
what do you think?
i think you are here all day.
we give it one more hour. did the photographer do the dogs?
the dogs?
two dogs. he should do the dogs.
the coroner wants to know if we can release the derelict?
ask him.
yeah, he can go ...
think I will lay down with him. only way I will get outta here.
is this normal?
average rainfall, 48 inches. pisses down, october to june.
did he get you the job?
i think he would have if he could have - been trying to get me up here long enough - i think he may have bribed the old guy to retire ..
popeye was not old. younger than you.
did you find the knife, sergeant?
no .. but we have a theory ..
kid told me he did not take it?
maybe he is lying to you?
interview over, blattis ...
c'mon, chief, if it is sensitive, tell me .. I am not taking notes ..
.. we got a body part. we do not know what it is - probably some kind of hospital debris - we are going to try and check it out. o.k. now you know as much as we do ..
grateful for your candor, sir.
then do me a favor, and keep this outta the newspaper - that dump serves a dozen different communities, we do not even know if it is ours? till we do i do not want no one worrying about ..
was not frozen, was it, sergeant?
come on, michael, outta here, the guys trying to move in. i told you what we know, something else, you- 'll be the first to hear about it ..
why did he ask if it was frozen?
that, i could not tell you .. and do not worry about anya this crap, by the time you are back it is gone ..
I am not giving him pizza. i have not seem him for a year? I am going to cook him a dinner.
dinner's another night, darlin .. this is a drive-by. i got an hour ..
bobby's out .. what is the hurry?
friday night at city hall. got a great chance to frighten the fat.
freddy's new obsession ..
who is who?
a professional, whining, con-person bitch with an ass the size of africa ..
so tonight she confesses?
tonight I am feeling lucky ..
not for me ..
what d'you mean, i just opened it for you? this is french champagne.
no it is not .. it is californian ..
even better.
not today .. I am on a diet to- day .. I will take a diet soda ..
since when did you drink diet soda?
how is the new residence?
o.k.
what does that mean?
not too good in daylight ..
c'mon, just shut your eyes until it is painted.  you are going to love it. this is "god's country," john.
what time is it?
seven thirty-five .. here, "town gets top cop." i was gonna pin it to your wall.
why so coy about the word "frozen"?
because, do not get into it ...
there is nothing in the files?
watch my lips .. don't get into it ..
it is an "unsolved." they spent 500 thousand dollars & bought emselves a dead end - you might wanna check it with taylor, he worked the case.
i already did. what is his problem?
he thinks you stole his promotion.  what exactly you doin there, john?
it is a method for quitting smoking.
it is a technique i read about. if you smoke 60 a day, you buy three packs, throw one cigar- ette away, and smoke 59. day 2, you throw 2 away and smoke 58 ..
why do not you throw them all away, and smoke none?
because it is a ritual you got to go through with. I am down to 10.
you want my advice?
maybe?
find yourself a farmer's daughter with nice big fucking tits, and shake that "bye-bye." send it to sacramento, john .. i sniff grief ..
you gotta stop smoking ..
i am stopping smoking ...
i do not mean this "system" shit that keeps you sucking, i mean stop .. i was exactly like you are .. i used to wake in the night - heart going so hard i coulda made love with my left tit .. if i can stop, you can ..
how did you do it, old man?
someone bet me a dollar ..
a dollar? .. not worth giving up for a dollar ..
what is that?
laser enhancement of the finger- tip .. it is really bothering me .. see these striations right here?  it is like she is always worrying the end of her finger? rubbing it with a thumb nail, or something?
how do you know her hair's black?
hair on her hand. plus jen- nifer had raven black hair.
what is all this jennifer stuff?
yes, sir, i think they maybe. i think "jennifer," and this lady got hit by the same guy?
i do not see that at all ..
i got four points of posit- ive comparison on the cut ..
yeah, that is all very inter- esting, but where is the body?
probably making him feel a bit antsy seein it back on the wall. he worked a lotta time on this.
i thought it was taylor's case?
sucked in officers from all over the county. and it was the worst six months this station ever had.
what do you want me to do, chief?
I am not telling you what to do. what i will say, is right now, that child's tricycle there is more important to me than this ..
what do you mean?
worrying - clicking - picking - you may as well be back in los angeles.
what do you mean, ross?
why do not you dump it? mail it off. give the fucking f.b.i. a present?
why do not you dump the "fat lady?"
because i dislike her too much ..
o.k. and I am not in love with this fukker? that is how i feel about him.
no you don't. that is how you think you feel about him. that is how you feel about yourself. you will not give yourself one-fucking-minute for you.
pig woman agreed to take a test.
i think i got something - twenty two years old, dark hair - study- ing mathematics -  - last seen 5 weeks ago ..
as recent as we have .. what ex- actly is your interest in amber?
I am afraid i can not give you an ans- wer to that, mr goodridge. as i ex- plained to your secretary, we are do- ing a lotta looking, but we are not even sure it is her we are lookin for ..
then what are you hoping I am gon- na do? dissuade, or persuade you?
i was hopin since we spoke that you might have remembered something that would give us an idea where she is?
then you could have saved yourself a lot of driving, sergeant. what i said on the phone's the same as I am saying now. i got no idea where amb- er is, or who it was took her there.
a blind girl can just walk out of here, and you do not know who with?
you find something curious in that?
yeah, i guess i do.
then let me put your mind at ease .. firstly, amber is not "blind" - she has some useful vision - and second, this is not a prison, it is a college of higher education - a severe vis- ual disability does not mean my stud- ents do not value their independence as much as anybody else - and amber was a very independent young woman - she decided to leave - so she left ..
and you got no idea with who?
no, sergeant, i got no idea with who. and i might add, that in another six weeks, a hundred and fifty students will be leaving here, & driving away for their christmas holidays with pe- ople whose name i-won't-know-either ..
yes, sir.
as she is a member of my staff, may i ask what this is about?
well, apparently, she saw amber the weekend she left, & was briefly in the room with the guy she left with.
i see .. well, she is teaching an- other class at four .. I would apprec- iate it if you do not detain her ..
where is everyone?
i dunno .. i guess this is staff side of the building?
what d'you wanna ask, mr ross?
I am mr berlin.  mr ross is right here. and mr ross is maybe going to take a few notes, if that is o.k.?  o.k. .. I would like you to tell me in what ever way you want, what you can remember about the time you spent with amber on the aft- ernoon she left? take your time, and nothing's too trivial, o.k.
well, i think i told you on the phone .. i went up to her room to say good-bye, and we just sat on the bed and chatted a while, while her friend was coming in and out collecting her things ..
what kind of friend? was he a boy friend? an old friend? new friend?
you must have some idea about him.
when we spoke on the phone, did you know i was blonde?
no.
why not? you heard my voice?
john? .. you never said that on the phone? .. what makes you think his name was john?
i do not know. i guess she must have called him john? I am mak- ing tea. would you like some?
this looks promising .. i think this one could be it?
thank christ we got a witness.
let me just keep going a while. she might remember something?
what? she is blind, bro. you may as well ask one of these beethoven guys on the piano?
the elevator was not working?
no, it has a mind of its own.
can i see your hands?
my hands?
is there anything else you can tell me? anything about him or her? does not matter how small?
no. except he smoked. like you.
me?
yes, i could smell it on his breath, like i can on your's.
d'you have a dog? seeing eye dog?
no.
lotta scratch-marks on your door?
sometimes i look after friends dogs, if they go to dances, or something?
did amber have a dog?
yes.
what color was it?
i do not know.
had a seeing eye dog since she was eighteen .. did not i tell you those dogs meant something ..
no, you didn't.
alright, i didn't, but i nearly did, and if i had I would have been right .. i knew there was some- thing about that labrador, that dog was too good to be dead .. we got to get back up that dump ..
no way .. not me, mister. I am not going up there again. might find someone is prick in a hot-dog roll.
we are going.
forget it. they got stringent hyg- iene rules. he is long gone in lime.
maybe not? I am feeling lucky ..
so am i. but where is my money?
do not start again. if you win a bet, you can not keep winning it ..
pay me, and i shut up.
i have not got it.
then give me that zippo.
why?
i need some security. i do not trust you anymore.
i had one puff on a pipe.
i do not want excuses, i want that weird-looking stuff called "cash."
what do you want it for?
to throw out of the window.
what are you doing, ross? I have had that 15 years! ..
it is not your friend. it keeps you sucking. remem- ber the old bum's lungs?
i remember the old bastard's liver! i do not believe you did that. i had a great sent- imental attachment to that.
you want me to stop the car?
six girls over a period of 18 months, and give or take a head or two, the m.o.'s exactly the same. dark hair. no hands. all shot with a high velocity twen- ty-two in the back of the head.
how come the f.b.i. do not put anya this together? they work- ed over "jennifer" for months?
they possibly did - but they nev- er had a head, so they never had a bullet - and they never got an i.d. - not on any of em - never bust a homicide unless you know who your victim is - we are the first to get a positive identity.
identity of whom? you got a girl, does not even have a driver's lic- ense? .. she is untraceable, john .. you need fifty detectives on this.
that is what I am here for. i want you to come and see citrine with me?  he is not going to here it from me but i know he would listen to you.
listen to me saying what?
i wanna take that fucking blind in- stitute to pieces .. every address book, every phone call, everyone in and outta there in the last 5 years ..
for a dead dog?
we have fused into a major series, ross. this girl is not the second victim. this is "jennifer eight."
that is not what you said before.
i was wrong.
you believe me, do not you?
what does it matter what i bel- ieve? .. what you gotta worry about is what citrine believes ..
have you been here long?
no, just a minute or two .. i knocked on your door - no one home, so i followed the music ..
I am sorry. I will get my things.
no problem. I am not in a hurry.
i suppose I am the worst witness you have ever had?
i got to admit, you are one of them. just wish i knew what you meant by a "hollow car?"
well, some cars sound fat and some cars sound thin, and this kind of car sounded "hollow" ..
if i came to the diner with you, would you bring me back?
of course i would ..
I am sorry, someone slammed the door on me. i could not get out.
it was probably the wind.
what are you reading?
hamlet. have you read it?
no.
you should. it is wonderful.
are you wearing a uniform?
no.
oh.
well, I am glad we got the conver- sational side of lunch over with.
I am sorry .. i do not like sitting in the middle of a restaurant .. i feel like everyone's looking at me ..
there is no one "looking at you" .. there is hardly anyone in here. the only person looking at you, is me.
are you married?
was. but i do not like to talk about it.
you just asked me to ask you questions.
i know, but you pick on the one time in my life i like not to remember. i was in the bad lands. really not well. it is something that happens to a lota cops. we do not wanna talk about that.
"thoughts that lie too deep for tears."
yeah, that will do .. is that "hamlet?"
no, wordsworth .. do you like poetry?
i do not know, i have not read much. i do not think poetry's my kinda thing?
do you pray?
pray?
you said, you were in the bad lands?
no, i do not pray .. had a dream once, about god, just around the time i was getting well .. he was a nasty lookin little guy, moved into the apartment right on topa me .. i said, do not you listen to people's prayers?  he said, prayers? not often. they are junk mail.
sorry?
.. sorry your father, mother sis- ter, whatever .. i could not take another day of it .. come on, I am going to rob you of a cup of coffee ..
you are pushing this too hard. it is like you want me to say stop? you must know that is the way this is going, john? there is other work to do, why do not ya ease off a little?
coz this is a major & we are closer to this bastard than anyone's ever been.
then where's the body? .. where is the body, and why's he hidden it?
he hasn't hidden it. he never made a hit this far north before, and he never read a weather forecast .. she is probably fifteen feet from the highway, three feet under snow.
have you got a match on the bullet?
no.
have you got a print from the hand?
no, sir.
it could be anyone's hand. illeg- ally disposed of hospital debris ..
it is her hand. her scars. her dog. her dog's shot. and she is missing.
she is not "missing." did she shout? did she scream? did he coerce her? no. she left of her own free will .. and if she gets on a plane and goes to peru with the prick, she is still not missing. you got no case, john.
if you are not going to hear me, chief ..
i have heard you. you just do not like hearing me. you got this whole damned thing outta proportion. i do not know what you gotten used to in los angeles, but i do not believe there is a police chief, in this country, would put a task force together for a body part ..
we have a multiple homicide, sir ..
we have a body part in suspicious circumstances - a tailor's dummy wearing a brassiere - and a bill for seventeen dollars for its wig!
did he shut you down?
all but .. how you doing?
i dunno, i daren't go in there - just about get her wired up, and the fucking mayor walks in - mad as hell - what are we doing fuck- ing with his staff? we should be out chasing major violators ..
i wish he would tell that to citrine.
did i say he did?
you looked like you did?
no, i think you will find i looked like he could have? by accident even? he is up here spraying the scenery all day.
he did not shoot it, ross. and no way by accident. there is a flash-burn. it was point-blank.
such a shame .. she is a really sweet kid ..
she is a doll. but i wish he had not brought her out here.
he is happy, darlin ..
I am sure he is. but gettin in- to the "element" is a bad idea.
except for the hair color, she looks just like suzanne?
well, that is who she is. cept she can not run away.
you want something, darling?
i would not mind another b.e.e.r.
she married some english prick.
he is not that bad of a guy ..?
got a handshake like a partially excited penis.
why is she blind, bro?
car accident.
she runs a kind of hair dress- ing and you know, beauty salon ..
have you known her long?
i was married to her sister ..
i know what you are like ..
how d'you know what I am like?
ross told me.
really? what did he say?
he said you are quite chubby. and you have a nervous tick.
he said that? what else did he say?
just your age.
which is what?
fifty-seven .. i do not mind ..
I am shutting you down on this "blind thing," john.
is that my punishment for embarrassing mr heineman?
do not underestimate me .. the mayor's pissed - but that is nothing to do with this - sit down - how many times have you been up at that institute?
three or four.
I am talking, outside the girl?
once.
got a letter from this goodridge guy? says, you are upsetting his students?
that is bullshit,
he says, you freaked one of em out?  "asking a newly blind kid if he can 'see,' is both cruel, and dangerous" ..
i never asked if he could "see." i just asked one or two of the stud- ents if they remembered anything?
and did they?
no.
god, it pisses me off, ross.
no god, brother. if there was a god, asses would not be at the perfect height for kicking.
hey, we are not talking "talk" tonight.
no one's going to make that gent. six months investigation, & the nearest we got, we thought he was a sailor.
yeah, in and outta frisco on the big boats .. every lead we had went right out to sea .. night, night, freddy t .. john ..
how come he is suddenly so forth- coming? I would like to kick him right in the ass. if he would discussed it with me, i mighta gotten somewhere ..
stop it.
i never knew about the sailor the- ory, ross. he might have that one little thing i need in his files?
john, stop it. the case is on its ass, you are closed.  c'mon, let it go for once .. have a drink. c'mon, relax, drink your beer ..
you got to stop calling los angeles .. you are dragging l.a. around with you like an addiction.  look at the shit you are putting yourself through? for what? for nothing, i know it, i been there. remember me? up to my asshole in anger, living off the vitamins in cigarettes?  if there is a body under the snow, fuck it. let somebody else worry about it. you got to accept you stopped living in that world, & try and give yourself a break in this ..
just makes to so god damned mad ..
you are a fucking great policeman, but give yourself a break. you are here 5 minutes, you find yourself a fucking homicide? .. not many people could do that in a place like this .. and you got to admit, there is a lot of shaky areas in this case? .. i mean, stop me if I am going up the wrong nostril ..
she was not lying about the van.
alright, she was not lying about the van. but it could have been any van? any little foreign diesel? .. she is blind, bro .. it is sad .. she is pro- bably lonely, and you are a nice guy to have around .. but you are getting far too far into the element, brother ..
sure.
you do not need me to tell you what hap- pens when you get emotionally involved?
alright, enough, ross. you will bring on my "nervous tick" ...
.. feel like I am getting close to this guy .. and all the time, feel like I am sharpening a pencil with a broken load .. I am sorry, king j ..
what are you looking for?
vehicle references.
wrong cabinet.
i have to talk to you, helena.
i know.
you know? how do you know?
coz you hardly said a word since you got here. but you been thinking pretty loud ..
just easy on the words you are putting in my face, sergeant ..
whass going on here?
his blind friend got "attacked." angelo went up there, and some- how, it got itself in the paper.
you put it in there.
i may have said some- thing. i do not recall.
do not lie, taylor. i just had this blattis guy on the phone asking me for a comment - you gave him the whole damned case!
alright, i gave him the case? .. so the case is closed, so what?
so read it! you just hung a target around her neck!
bullshit.
do not you know nothing about this guy? he reads the newspapers. col- lects the cuttings. when are they going to find her? now he is reading helena robertson's name, phrased like she is a fucking witness. you could not have done anything more stupid if you would sat down & tried ..
hey, c'mon, country boys, let's all line up and hear the expert.
just walk away from me, taylor ..
you think you are the only guy ever worked a homicide? i was a big-city cop too. and i bust- ed the clock on fucken jennifer. i know more about this man than you will over know - and that is how i know it am not him - you- 're investigating a soap-opera ..
alright, guys. we stop this now.
he tells her, "bye-bye," and she gets "attacked." well, give me a fucking break! there is no "ser- ial killer." stick her name up in neon, there is still no serial kil- ler! and i am not the only one say- ing it. everyone in this building is saying it. and i mean everyone.
shut up, king jay ..
no, c'mon, freddy, let's have this out & over. you know what everyone thinks? they think you are making a case coz you found yourself a nice piece of ass. and no one's blaming you for it, i hear she is worth the flowers. but do not come in here get- ting holy over us. sure i put it in the paper. coz i wanted to stop this bullshit. i do not want you drunk out- ta your head searching my office ag- ain. it is pissing me, & everyone off.
you do not know what you done, taylor.
if, your friend from san diego was up here, and thought for one out of two fucken seconds, she was a danger to him, he'da taken her out weeks ago ..
i know what a "witness" is.
well, her, it ain't. that bitch is blind as a blonde fucken bat.
nothing you gotta say do i wanna hear right now. so save yourself saying it.
I am not in here to apologize, john. i told you what was going to happen & it is happened? "good-bye, princess," & the same night she gets attacked? that is a tough one to swallow, bro?
I am already familiar with taylor's opinion.
you do not really believe this?
one hundred fucking per cent! .. and you know why? coz i never told her good-bye. o.k.? is that good enough for the "committee?"
well .. i did not know that ..
no .. you did not know that ..
that is a very stupid question, ross.
I am asking it.
how the hell do i know who? some jerk-off. some peeping-tom prick.
ease off, john ..
i'm sick of this toy town shit.
everything you say sounds reason- able. but there is also a reason- able explanation for the opposite.
do not give me that! not another word! when you had the fat lady in there, and i asked you if she was lying, you looked me right in the eyes and said yes. so as far as i was concerned, she's ly- ing. and if the king of fucking england had walked in & told me different, i would not have bel- ieved him - because you told me ..
i dunno what i can do to help you?
i dunno what I would do with your help. I have got to take her out of there ..
what about citrine?
screw citrine. he can fire me.
has he got your aunt's address?
i do not think so .. he said the police had been calling .. want- ed to ask me some more questions ..
who?  probably angelo .. I will take care of it .. do not worry, we- 're going to find this guy, and everything'll be o.k. .. o.k.?
you are looking worried again, helena?
no I am not.
you are looking more worried now than when you "decided to stop worrying"?
alright, I am worried about christmas. i wish i had not told him I would be back ..
can not thank you enough, ross ..
do not thank me. thank margie.
when did john divorce?
two or three years ago.
what was she like?
suzanne? very pretty. she was a semi- professional model. but a policeman's wife she wasn't. so one day, she just packed it and left. and his whole life went straight down the nearest toilet.
what does that mean?
you know, he crashed. he just could not come to terms with it .. john hates to lose, and he hated losing her .. every spare minute, he is driving down to san diego, having a terrible time with her, getting drunk, and driving back .. you just do not believe the amount he drank ..
you think he still loves her?
think he still thinks about her. but not like then. then was an obsession.
i have not worn heels since i was 16. i do not think i could walk in these?
sure you can. anyway, parties are all about standing still ..
you think john would like it?
i think john, would love it ...
yeah .. i guess she is in the kit- chen .. we got a so-called prof- essional cook out there having a nervous breakdown over a turkey ..
are you sure you did not call?
you got a quiet phone somewhere?
hey, john, do not start getting antsy over this tonight. it may well have been the local cops?
that is just what i wanna find out.
how you doing on those shoes?
do not mix very well with beer.
jesus. what are you doin?
i spose I am drinking myself to sleep. it is helena's christmas songs .. they are really pretty ..
what exactly you doing, john?
I am going up to the institute.
now?
this "cop" that is calling, thinks she going to be there over christmas.
listen, you do not havta come?
hey ..
where is your watch?
i guess by the bed.
it is twenty of three.
bull shit .. I am in my prime ..
bits.
what d'you mean, "bits."
policemen's bodies age at diff- erent rates. look at me. gut in its fifties. balls in their six- ties. and feet in their eighties ..
hit those wipers, ross.
what if we need a back up?
we are not here. i do not want the desk to hear us ..
alright. I will start at the top, and work down.
you am not going in alone?
that is a liability, ross. i do not want you hanging on to my shirt. anyone but me comes down these stairs, take em out but try and keep him alive. i want this bastard living ..
why can not i stay with you?
it is not possible right now.
why?
please do not ask no quest- ions now .. not right now ..
is that margie?
I am here, honey. I am right here.
she has an aunt, in vermont. I will take her there tonight.
I am going back to the institute.
no .. not now ..
what are you doing, travis?
i been told to take your car in, sir.
why?
i dunno, sir. brought you up a chevy.
you got a warrant for this?
yes, sir.
who sought the warrant?
the man from the f.b.i.
alright, you got it. and I will be putting an observer in with you.
i want serato ..  why can not i have serato?
coz I am short of men & ang- elo will not do it .. who ever i got free first - you get ..
do not say that. do not you dare say that .. i believe you  ..
i know you are trying to help me, but you do not understand.
then explain it to me. i got enough darkness, do not i?
the man who killed amber is a psychopath. he was up at the in- stitute to kill you - he do not wanna kill rose - he was there to kill you - that is the truth - and i did not wanna tell it to you - but that is the reason i want you to stay at margie's - coz i can not protect you here ..
why does he want to kill me?
coz he thinks you are a witness.
i can not identify him ..
he do not know that. i didn't.
then why did not he kill me?
he does not need my help.
i know about alcohol, john.
you do?
I am blind because my father drank.
he is offerin you a deal? why do not you take it ..
he am not offerin me shit.
you do not wanna sit here any more, sweetheart ..
i wanna be near you ...
i think they are going to arrest me.
i do not want them to arrest you.
it is not as bad as it sounds .. they can not refuse me bail. raise bail of my own cognizance & find the best damned lawyer there is ..
I have told you the truth. it is not me .. I have never call- ed ross "freddy" in my life ..
I have heard you call him freddy.
you haven't. and you got no voice in here, taylor, so keep it shut.
as i said, sergeant, you nearly ran into me? what is the problem?
I am afraid it is the "van" again.
the van?
is it your vehicle?
no, my mother's .. you better stop in .. I am just here to feed the cat.
I am sorry to worry you with this, but we had a real serious robbery, and we- 're chasing a white v.w. van? you guy came up an the computer, so as a matt- er of routine we have to check. could you tell me who is driven it recently?
only me and mom ..
how about any guys on your staff?
we only got one .. he does not drive.
I will sign anything you want. please. bring here her .. i want helena here ..
you am not talking to no one, till you calm down.
i am calm .. i am calm ..
