the keeper of the files is still waiting for your final summation of the erlanger claim.
i gave it to him yesterday.
you did not give it to me.
no, i left it in his office.
did you see him?
I have never seen him.  i do not believe there is a keeper of the files.
he is usually in the storage room sorting things out.  he can not close the file on a case until he has the concluding report.
he has it, he just has not noticed it yet, all right?
who is to say he ever will?  he is a timid old man and quite careful not to tread on anyone's toes -- in fact, I am the only one he trusts and he would not even look at a document if it did not first come through me.
in an organization as efficient as ours, if a document once in a great while gets lost it might never be found at all.
burgel, i thought it would be easier, as long as i was passing --
but i'm the messenger.  an error like this damages my credibility.
your credibility -- yes, it is well known.
when i deliver a message the very act of delivering it, you might say, gives it an official stamp, and only in this way are both the sender and the receiver satisfied that it was delivered at all.
I will commit that to memory.
I am kafka -- i work upstairs in accident --
i know.
you are a friend of eduard raban's.
why would you suppose so?
oh -- well, i thought he once mentioned --
one of you must be mistaken.
I am sorry, but i just wondered --
excuse me, i have to copy this for central docketing by 2:30.
-- I am hoping to live in the old quarter.
even the so-called new town is not so new.  only the people.  people of the future living in buildings of the past.  has anyone seen eduard?
you work in the insurance department?
you have been hearing the sordid side then.
hello again.
I have never seen you here before.
have you looked?
well -- nice to know life exists outside the office.
yes.
where do you live?
up there.
it is only majestic from here. when you get closer you see it for what it really is.
what is it really?
a glorified office block.  they keep all the old records there -- the final resting place for facts and figures that have ceased to matter in the world of the living.
well, as long as i admire it from afar it should not worry me if it is hollow.
I have read your stories.  they are fantastic.
i do not know what you could have read.
just what you have published.
-- in magazines nobody reads.
i read the one about the penal colony.
did you?
the needles inscribing the judgement into the flesh of the man.  very good.
kafka -- is that your real name?
yes.  yes, of course -- why would not it be?
when was the last time you saw mr. raban?
wednesday.  we left the office together.
did you go anywhere afterwards -- to have a drink perhaps?
no, we said goodbye outside the building.  he went off, as usual, toward his house.
your office is the workmen's --
-- accident and compensation association.
where you have been employed for seven years.
eight -- and seven months.
engaged in the manufacture and distribution of ... pills and so forth.
well -- other departments are, yes.
would you describe your relationship with the dead man as close?
yes.  since he came to the office, almost three years ago, we have been quite good friends.  how was eduard ...
he was found in the river.  could he swim?
i do not know.
was he depressed?
no.  he did not seem to be.  do you think he drowned himself?
grown men do not normally fall into the river, do they?
no, i suppose not.
he might have had a drink or two, despite what you think.
can i ask -- how you found me?
his landlady knew of no other friends to refer us to.
i do not think he really had any. he had no family either.
we know that.
he was not a lonely man, though.
what makes you think so?
... just a perception.
probably not.
anyway, I would like you to reflect that in me you have -- i will not say a friend, because we are complete fencers, of course -- from distinctly incompatible social classes -- but to some extent, shall we say, an interested third party.
I will bear that in mind.
-- should you happen upon anything that might be relevant.
you wanted to see me, sir.
sit down, kafka.
you have been with the firm for nearly nine years.  you have done your work diligently, there are no complaints on that score.  but there is more to the job than the work -- there are other people to consider -- and frankly, kafka, we eel your social situation could bear improving.
... my ... social situation?
you keep too much to yourself -- you are a lone wolf.  it makes me uneasy, and if it makes me uneasy i can not imagine the impression you make on lesser employees.
to do my work well, i have little time for --
you must make the time.  where do you go off to in the lunch hour?
i usually take lunch by the river.
it is not healthy, kafka -- not for you and not for your workmates.  at the annual dinner this month you again failed to make an appearance.
i did not realize it was obligatory.
have you never wondered -- and i mention this only in passing --  why other clerks have advanced to more responsible positions while you, who have been here longer, have not?
no, sir.
attitude, kafka.  it does not matter how well you do your work -- you still see it as something to be gotten on with rather than something to take an active interest in.
well, i --
oh, i know you got along with that poor fellow -- what was his name?
-- eduard --
-- yes -- raban -- but he was too much like you -- even more so perhaps.  he was not here as long as you, so i did not know him as well -- but i could see the influence he was having.  i simply want you to be aware of this because you will be happier for it.
i understand you fancy yourself an author.
in a small way.
you might find a more athletic hobby -- put some color in your cheeks.
good morning --  or should i say good afternoon?
say what you like -- no one pays the least attention.
oh, do not they?  i think you underestimate my station in this office and overrate your own.
not today, burgel.  send one of your memos, write up one of your communiques, but for god's sake do not bother me today.
it is my place to offer advice, not yours -- and by advising the chief clerk of your unpunctuality it is certainly not my situation that is compromised, if that is what you are implying.
you are just doing your job.
it is what I am paid to do.
you are detestable.
and you are late!
my assistants, i presume.
yes -- that is us.
ludwig.
oskar.
you look like brothers.
yes -- we do.
have you worked here long?
no, no, no -- quite a long time, yes.
i was having an affair with eduard.  he did not tell you?
no.
he would have.  you were his best friend.  a better friend than me.
i suspected that he -- well.
what?
that he was -- satisfied in that regard.  i did not want to pry.
it is not that we wanted to deceive anyone -- but you know how these things are looked upon at the office.
what is funny?
this morning it was suggested to me that my own sense of office fellowship could bear improving.
as long as it is on their terms. if your work and your private life do not correspond to their specifications you are labelled a dangerous agitator -- with no recourse whatsoever.
how long were you and eduard --
two or three months, that is all.  -- i seduced him.
no, i don't.  I am amazed that anyone is able to bear life with any assurance at all.
eduard did not see it as something that needed bearing.
the police would know the difference, would not they?
do you think people in the new town care what happens over here?  this will always be the ghetto.
he was not robbed.  he was identified by his wallet.
and you believe everything the authorities tell you.
when i have no reason to doubt.
the very fact that they are authorities should give you reason. people will do anything to protect their own interests.  for all you know he was killed at the hands of the police.
-- what could he have done to warrant that?
are you free tonight?
tonight?
there are some people I would like you to meet.  can you come to the musil district at eight o'clock?
... all right.
you almost married recently, did not you?
last year.  i -- it was broken off.
eduard wanted to marry me.
and you ...?
I am suspicious of men who want to marry.  i believe they think it is the only thing that will make them equal to their fathers.
-- i do not know the musil district.
you will not have any trouble finding it.
heralds of a new age -- does that sound immodest?
you could say we represent the unofficial view of a well-ordered society.
ah -- we are back to the "authorities" you spoke of.
they are ubiquitous.  what we try to do ... is make them a little less so.
... why take me into your confidence?
that is obvious, is not it?  we have an opening for a new member.
i nominated you as a possible candidate.  you were eduard's good friend.  he read me some of your work.
I have hardly published enough for anyone to draw conclusions from.
you strike me as a man with a defined notion of injustice -- a high concern for the lot of your fellow men.  and yet you are able to remain an outsider.  with the concomitant air of ... superiority?
preliminary investigations may already be underway.
you were his friend.  one link is all they need.
the day he died, eduard was called up to the castle.  did you know that?
what of it?
he was summoned to help correct a minor discrepancy of some sort in the medical records division. apparently one of his claims was relevant.
and you still maintain -- what? that he was murdered.
he was murdered.
you are shocked at the thought of eduard tossing a bomb through a window.
i have no right to be, i know.  my experience with real life  is practically nil.
when you only see someone sitting at a desk all day, it is liable to create a false impression.
people must think the same of me -- a quiet, dependable person.
-- merely in the interests of order.
the formality of a trial would be too costly for them.  they are beginning to understand that it is the ensuing news of our actions that incites support.
you think what we are doing is so wrong?  and what are you doing? pursuing goodness?  for what?  to answer to some supreme tribunal?
my only concern is the human tribunal.  is not it yours?
yes -- which is why "quiet, dependable people" have to take charge of their own lives.
at the cost of others?  you accuse people of murder without trial -- apparently without irony.  did you go to the castle with eduard?  then you have no idea what really might have happened that night at all -- even before or after he got there.
fine -- terrible.
what was the matter with it?
he can not sit still.  just when we arrive at a nightclub he wants to go to another one.
you look tired.
gabriela rossman was here looking for you.  do you know her?
do you?
we saw her naked once -- did not we.
women are all you have on your mind!
she went to the roof to sunbathe one lunch hour -- we watched her changing.
i did not realize you would been here that long.
you mean because it is been a while since there was a sunny day?  what a good detective you are.
they keep switching us from department to department.  he does not mind because he can not sit still.
we used to be in the supply section, carrying boxes of medicine about but we dropped too many of them.
it is not too bad working here.
are you looking for gabriela rossmann?
yes.
I am collecting eduard's things. if there is anything you want, take it or I will give it to charity.
burgel gave me this -- what does it mean?
burgel! -- i did not leave it with him.
why were you given notice?
they are not obliged to tell.
it could not be for that incident with burgel the other day.
of course it could -- burgel's been trying to get me thrown out as long as i can remember.  he could have killed eduard.
you do not believe that.
i would not put it past him.
you might think -- i thought so myself at first -- that burgel's too insignificant to be dangerous. but that is the very reason to beware! it is the small men to watch out for -- the ones who substitute method for character.
now you have fallen into his trap. when he goes to bed at night burgel dreams of inspiring as much fear in others as they inspire in him.
it is still easier for you to understand suicide, is not it.
that street down there -- i always used to call it the approach road for suicides.  it leads straight down to the bridge and the river.
burgel hated eduard.  and me.  I am sure he knew about us -- and I am sure it drove him mad.
burgel does not like anybody!
he used to like me -- very much more than i liked him.
he is jealous, yes, but that jealous?  he is too cautious.
of course he is -- the castle precincts are not the safest part of the city after dark.  people disappear up there regularly.   if you want to lie in wait for someone, that is the place to do it.
now you are saying eduard was lured there?
how often does one of our clerks have business in the house of records?
I have heard of it happening.
and burgel is the bringer of messages, is not he?
usually.
or what if there really was an error? -- i do not know what kind -- any kind that needed correcting -- and what if burgel was responsible for it?  one mistake -- even a small one in a firm like ours -- it could cost him a promotion.
first these nameless authorities were the root of all evil, now it is insignificant burgel.  if indeed there was a mistake -- and a minor one at that -- you are suggesting someone went to a lot of trouble over something so trivial as to not matter at all.
what seems important to these people is not determined by the amount of work it entails -- you are far from understanding the authorities if you believe that.
now burgel's one of the authorities?
but that is just my point -- she was more than upset, she was livid. she slammed every door on her way downstairs -- except that one.  i was just behind her and i did not even hear that one shut -- not at all.
that is not what i call conclusive evidence of an abduction.
if someone was waiting here in the hallway to spirit her away, would not they have shut the door as quietly as possible?
you told me to contact you if anything relevant came up -- gabriela is relevant.  when i spoke to you before i did not know she would been seeing eduard.
that is been noted.  but where does it lead us?  unless you have something more to add.
she is missing.  i went to her house and she had not returned there.
maybe it is true then what she said.
what did she say?
that the police may have allegiance to something other than truth.
gabriela was right -- it is easier for me to understand suicide. I am a practicing suicide.
-- in what sense?
these strange stories you write -- they come naturally, do they?
naturally? -- that is not the word i would have chosen.
where do you get your ideas?  only joking -- I am just joking.  let's go to a brothel then, kafka, come on.
i have not got the energy.  i mean, i have to conserve my energy.
why do you work in that hideous insurance office?  -- dealing with people who fall off ladders.  now take me -- i make my living as a stone mason.  it is not my art -- but it is the tools of my art.  you could be -- a journalist.
that would be even worse -- it would be a compromise.
success or nothing?
no -- not even success.  my writing is not for making a living -- it is for living.  not for other people, it is for me.
-- ah, but what if it wasn't?
-- small.
yours is a very powerful and important firm -- it has a lot at stake.
perhaps eduard was closer than he knew to discovering it and so had to be silenced.
that is mad.
-- oh, yes, it is mad.
-- you said so yourself the firm is large and powerful.  if the discrepancy really was something big, eduard's responsibility would still have to be small.  no poor young clerk could find himself in such a fix.
when a scapegoat is needed, my friend ...
why are you so aggressively unimaginative?  eduard is no longer the only casualty.
then why have not i been --
-- gabriela, on the other hand, had made an enemy of this man burgel.
oh, burgel!  gabriela was having an affair with eduard.  they were both members of this group.  if any crime's been discovered and people are paying for it, I would look to yourselves!
the loyal civil servant.  i suppose you will deny that shortchanging the workers to whom compensation is due is standard company policy.
"raban" -- that will be nearly at the back of the alphabet.
it usually is.
I am not obliged to give you access, you know -- not without authorization -- but I will make an exception this one time.
I am overworked as it is.  "raban" did you say?
yes.  is not it there?
wait a minute.  "raban?"  where have i heard that name?
he is the clerk who died last week. from the insurance department
what is the matter?
why would we keep files on dead employees?  all old files are sent up to the castle.  do you think we have room for two hundred years worth personnel records?
it is gone out so quickly?
whenever an employee departs, shall we say, it is up to the head of his department to requisition his file, reassign any outstanding claims, and send it off.
-- you mean my chief has it.
excuse me, sir -- i understand you have eduard raban's file.
i do.
i wonder if i might look to see if there is an address for family -- i thought I would like to write to them.
was there something else?
no -- i just -- i feel a sense of obligation.  he was my friend -- if i can be of any help -- closing his affairs.
no, there is only one report to complete.  I will be doing it myself and submitting it to the castle today or tomorrow.
i see -- it is just the erlanger claim then.
the orlac claim.
sorry, yes -- well -- thank you, sir.
if it was accounts you wanted why did you ask for employees?
orlac is an account?
it is a factory in the northern mountains.  one of our best customers.  without a proper request I am not obliged to do this, you understand -- but I will make an exception on this one occasion.
all these in the last year?
you must have read about it in the papers -- there was a terrible cave-in.  it would not have been so bad, but even the medical officer for the district was killed!
i did read that.  they gave him a posthumous medal.
dr. murnau was the bravest of men. he spent an entire career in those backwaters with no regard for personal gain.  a great loss.
this is the cross-reference of clerks who have worked on orlac claims?
is your friend's name among them?  then he only worked on the one case.  your chief will send me the final summation when he is finished with it.
once a file's been sent to the caste, is it possible to recall it for review?
of course not.  only by a director of the firm.  who would want to let in all kinds of riff-raff off the streets?
what good are records if they are not open for public inspection?
these laws have been with us for centuries -- how can you doubt them?
what if i petitioned one of the directors?
you do not summon them -- they summon you -- and this, of course, hardly ever happens, if at all. the directors are an eccentric lot and by nature cautious.
where do our records go to in the castle?
we are a medical firm, are not we? they go to the medical records section.
i could always apply there.
it so happens, my dear simple sir, that the head of medical records at the castle is one of the directors of this firm.
-- i was just trying to finish some work!
you mean you have actually begun some?
it is not our fault.  we are naturally nervous.
and we are upset too.
what is the matter with you?
i can not make a simple statement without him taking issue with it
-- you should meet my father.
we have been together too long.  his personality is overflowing into mine and vice versa.
-- how would you like to be in a horrible situation like that?
for all your incompetence i was beginning to think you were at least loyal to me.  you are very good ham actors.
-- just doing our job.
it is a farce.
still, we are probably closer to you at the moment than any of your fellow human beings.
close only by virtue of antithesis.
my assistants.  i should have known. nothing is given to me.  i have to acquire everything.
it is all right to be sarcastic in private to us -- because we have a sense of humor -- but when we are up at the castle we suggest you do not make a fuss.  it would spoil the not unfavorable impression you make in other respects.
but your goal is so hard to reach. do you think the official network would surrender to one man?  we would never think of attempting anything remotely as difficult.
my mother used to tell us of the young man who decided to ride to the next village and how she was afraid that -- not even mentioning accidents -- the span of a normal happy life might fall far short of the time needed for such a trip.
you work in the cemetery.
a man must eat --  and drink.
the castle cemetery.
-- I am flattered, of course, to be considered a friend -- even without knowing all the details.  -- to see such determination is reward enough for me.
the kafka men are famous for it, you know.  delivering meat barefoot in the depths of winter, picking up sacks of flour with their teeth --
-- oh, yes, determination runs in the family.
there is one thing I would like you to tell me.
I am trying to find things out myself -- that is the whole point.
what made you think i'd be able to get you into the castle?
the cemetery is nearer the castle than anywhere else -- was not it part of the castle originally?  -- i always assumed there would be a gate or something.  is not there?
in a manner of speaking.
i was restoring some stones here in the upper section one day -- and i found this.
an empty tomb?
a cenotaph -- a monument to someone whose remains ended up elsewhere. but look --
the castle gates were blockaded in the time of the great plague -- it is an escape route.  do not get stuck.
not a chance.  I am the thinnest person i know.
-- you appreciate my writing.
yes.
will you do me a favor then?
another one?
if i do not see you later -- go to my house and find my notebooks -- and destroy them.  all my manuscripts -- just burn them. please.
what an extraordinary request!
it is my last and final one.
then its authority is in doubt.
a true friend would do it.
not necessarily.  a wife would.
... a piece of paper ...
a mere slip.  your friend mr. raban dealt only with claims that came in, another department being responsible for compensation that goes out -- this is correct?
through a very unfortunate -- and i might add extremely rare -- mishap, a document intended for the one department was sent to the other.  and for the first time -- though your friend was not aware of it -- two and two could have been put together to make one.
... a piece of paper ...
you see, kafka, in all cases relating to the factory at orlac -- which is what this paper referred to -- the authority that puts in a request and the authority that grants it is, to all intents and purposes, the same authority.
-- you seem amused.
it only amuses me in that it gives me an insight into the ludicrous bungling that in some circumstances may decide the life of a human being.
-- if an obscure official up there in the distant mountains so far away from civilizing influences happens to meet with an unfortunate accident -- and should he tragically die in spite of the district medical officer's strenuous efforts to save him -- the firm wants to see the next of kin pacified and the disposition of the remains handled with the greatest possible ... efficiency.
"accident and compensation" -- no one can accuse the firm of not supplying exactly what it promises.
i believe we have exceeded his expectations.
i had the grandest of financial plots in mind, the most malevolent of personal motives, conspiracy theories extending to every ... authority i could see.  and i find you.  a body snatcher.
and i suppose dr. murnau did not die in a cave-in.  you killed him to free the position of orlac medical officer for your own ends.
yes, well -- we are looking for a new village now.  if we stay too long at one source ... people become suspicious.
may i ask where your two warders are?
lying in the gutter where they belong.
the fact that it is live bodies you practice your trade on does not seem to matter to you.
on the contrary, it matters a great deal.  we are engaged in immensely important research here.  I am a revolutionary too, you know -- but a much more pragmatic one.
-- and the new patients they bring me are not usually as dexterous as you have been in evading us.  not perfect specimens by any means, but not the type of person who will be missed either.
what have you done with gabriela rossmann?
as a matter of fact you have caught us in a state of considerable excitement.  our latest preparation we believe -- we pray -- is perfected. it should take years off her.
oskar!
ludwig?
this is filed incorrectly!
here too!  they are all in a dreadful muddle!
gabriela! -- you did get away.
i knew you walked this way to work.  i wanted to find you before they did.
-- I have just come from the castle.  it is over.
over?  it is only over when you can crawl to a clean little spot on earth where the sun sometimes shines and you can warm yourself a bit.
gabriela ...?
should i tell you why i joined our late lamented nihilists? why i became a murderer? because murder ... is bliss.  it is easier than you might think to absorb and assimilate evil -- once you have adopted its procedure.
only two steps back?  even the man they left to guard me retreated further than that.
i -- i found your jailer.
this is the result of their elixir of youth.  they were to come and check on it during the night.  i contrived to miss the appointment.
they are dead now.  we can get help.
i know how they reward failure. if they saw this I would be rotting in the quarries by the afternoon -- with all the others.
there is a new potion -- he said it was perfected.
i know there is.  and you are what i have to bargain with. for now you are the last one in their way.
i told you, they are dead.  it is finished.
why should i believe a man who never believed me?  they are absolutely right, you know -- guilt should never be doubted. it is easier that way.
i think you have just escaped for the moment.  just as i did.  as eduard did.  as they let us do. but only for the moment.
no -- not this time.
i know better than you what people will say when they have to.  when they brought me in for questioning i informed on my friends the very first day.
-- listen to me --
i do.  always.  you understand the world better than any of us, kafka.  and what it is becoming.  I have always held you in the highest regard.
we could go back to the office. explain ourselves to the chief clerk.
they would drive us away.  that kafka's made things very hot for us.
i understand he was wounded in the lung.
it does not matter.  it is too late for all of us.
what is to become of us now?
then that is the place for us!
amerika for us!
amerika!
