ted, will you take it easy? revlon's not about to drop an account that represents more than two million in gross billing receipts in a small agency like this, without making us sweat.  now just relax, okay? everything's going to be fine.
i do not think so, jim.  maybe i should not have--
hey, what is the rush?  c'mon, walk me a couple of blocks.
jim, I have got to go.  I am already late--
listen, ted...i just want to tell you, when old man schmidt retires next year, I have got a pretty
wow!
i mean it ted, you are running this one.
i thought you might just like to know that at five-fifteen this afternoon we were officially handed the fire and ice account by revlon.
ted, I am leaving you.
that represents a gross billing in excess of two million--  what?!
my american express...my bloomingdale's credit card... my check book--
okay, okay...what is it this time? what did i do now?...
i took two thousand out of the savings account.  that was what i had in the bank when we got married.
joanna, whatever it is, believe me, I am sorry.
here are the slips for the laundry and the cleaning.  they will be ready on saturday.
now listen, before you do something you will really regret you would better stop and think--
I have paid the rent, the con-ed and the phone bill, so you do not have to worry about them.
look, it is not your fault, okay? it is me.  it is my fault--you just married the wrong person.
so we have got problems.  everybody's got problems--that's normal--
ted, you are not listening to me. it is over, finished.
I am listening, joanna--believe me, I am listening.  my wife is walking out on me after eight years of--
you just do not get it, do you?  i - am - really - and - truly - leaving - you.
i heard you, joanna.  i promise i heard you.
no you didn't.  you did not even ask about billy.
what about billy?
I am not taking him with me.
what?
ted, i can't...i tried...i really tried but...i just can not hack it anymore...
c'mon, joanna, you do not mean that.  you are a terrific mother--
i am not!  I am a terrible mother! I am an awful mother.  i yell at him all the time.  i have no patience.  no...no.  he is better off without me.  ted, I have got to go...i've got to go.
okay, i understand and i promise i will not try and stop you, but you can not just go...look, come inside and talk...just for a few minutes.
no!...please...please do not make me stay...i swear...if you do, sooner or later...maybe tomorrow, maybe next week...maybe a year from now...  I will go right out the window.
where are you going?
i do not know...
huh.. .hello?
all right, thelma...that's it. I have had it.  you can call your good friend joanna kramer and tell her enough is enough, okay?  i mean, i do not know what i did, but you can tell her she is made her point.
ted, what are you talking about?!
do not play innocent with me, thelma.  you know perfectly well what is going on.
ted, i do not understand a word you are saying.  where is joanna?
ha!  you tell me.
all right, thelma, you want to know what is going on?  I will tell you what is going on.  I will tell you exactly what is going on.
look, ted, all i--
i came home tonight.  we just got the fire and ice account at the agency.  do you know what that means?!  do you understand what that means?  it means that it was maybe one of the five best days in my whole life.
ted, all i wanted to know was where--
i walk in the house and before i can say "how are you?", "did you have a nice day?" before i can say anything.   pow she is out the door.
ohmygod.  did not she say anything? she must have said something.
yeah, she said it was not any use talking anymore.
ted, do not be so hostile.
hostile?  me?  thelma, I am not hostile.  i am anything but hostile.  but if you want to know what i am.  I will tell you what i am. what i am is, i am hurt.  i am very hurt.  and i just want to know one thing, okay?  just one thing ...why?  that is all i want to know...why?
ted, joanna and i used to talk a lot and...well, she told me a lot of...ah, things about the two of you.
things? what kind of things?
i mean...things.  ted, joanna's very unhappy and--
listen, joanna kramer's got a goddamn good life.  she is got a husband that loves her.  she is got a terrific kid.  she is got a wonderful home--
what d'you know about how joanna felt?  you went off to an office every morning and you would come dragging home at seven or eight every night and as long as dinner was on the table you thought everything was swell.
did it ever occur to you guys that joanna kramer's not the easiest person in the world to live with?!  did it?!  for one thing she is always thirty minutes late.  you can set your watch by it--
two.  she is getting to be a real hermit or recluse or whatever it is you call it.  thelma, do you know where i could be in this business if i had a wife that entertained or went out socially--
oh for shit's sake, ted, you are the most selfish human being i have ever met.  no wonder she said you came first, then billy, then, if there was anything left over, she got the scraps.
joanna said that?
then how come she never said anything like that to me?
maybe she did not feel like she should have to.  maybe she felt like if you would been paying any real attention to her to start with, maybe you would have noticed.
boy, you guys are really something, y'know?  I would like to know one thing, okay--just one little thing.  did you tell joanna she should leave me?
no.
y'know something thelma--you are the typhoid mary of divorce. i mean it.  joanna and i never had any trouble until you and charley split up.
ted, divorce is a terrible thing. i know, i went through it. you have got to believe i did everything i could to get joanna to stay.  but I will tell you something. you may not want to hear it, but it took a lot of courage for joanna to do what she just did.
I would like to know what the hell kind of courage it takes to walk out on your husband and your child?
huh?...oh god...what time is it?
the little hand is on the six and the big hand is on the nine. where is mommy?
oh, christ...ah, yeah...you want to know why mom's not here, right?
when is mommy coming back?
soon.  very soon.
I will tell you what, kiddo--why do not i fix us some french toast?
wow!  french toast, really?
sure.  did not i ever tell you french toast was my specialty? I will bet i never told you that. now then, the first thing we need is...  ... eggs!  right?
you forgot the milk.
that is right.  you are absolutely right...it's been a long time since i made french toast.
what about my orange juice?
right.  one o.j. coming up.
when is mommy coming back?
soon.  i told you before, very soon.
will she pick me up after school?
no.  if I am not here, you go home with thelma and kim.
what if she forgets?
I will call thelma and remind her, okay?  do not worry.
jesus christ.  that is a real blockbuster.  i always figured you guys had it made.
you want to know the real kicker?  the real kicker is, for the first time in my life-- the first time--i feel like a loser.
listen, do not let it get you down.  you are going to be fine.
me?  I have never been better. i mean having my wife walk out on me after seven years of marriage agrees with me just fine.
look, ted, I am the oldest whore on the beat, okay?  three marriages, two divorces...you're going to be okay.
I am going to be okay.  the way i see it, joanna'll come home, it is just a matter of time.
she will be back...
but...just in case...i mean, just on the off chance she doesn't. what are you going to do about the kid?
i do not know, jim.  this whole thing has happened so...pow-- like that.
look, it is none of my business, so you can tell me to butt out, okay?  but if you want my advice, you will send billy away to stay with relatives for a while.  just until you get yourself straightened out.
i do not know, jim...
ted, this may sound a little rough, but we have just landed the biggest account in the history of this agency, right? and now it is up to us--that's you and me --to deliver the goods.  ted, you are my main man, and if i can not depend on you a hundred and ten percent, twenty-four hours a day, because you are worried about a kid with a runny nose--
jim, i appreciate what you are saying.  i mean it, but i really think joanna's coming back.
uh, huh...
you got a letter from mom.
what are you going to do?
i do not know, thel...this whole thing has happened so...pow, like that.
i mean, what are you going to do about billy?
I am going to keep him, why?
look, this is nothing personal, but i do not think you can do it.
thelma, I have lost my wife, I am not losing my child.
all right...okay...but let's get something straight, right now. i mean, I am sorry about what happened between you and joanna, but it is not my problem, understand?
I have got enough trouble raising my own kid.  i do not need another one.  got it?
got it.
you are on your own, understand?
i understand.
you are sure?
I am sure.
wait a minute!  wait a minute!
lenox hill.  77th street between park and lex.  the emergency number is 327-0800.
slow down...slow down...
'night, jim.
hey, ted.  c'mon in.  i wanna' talk to you.
you are late.
I am sorry, pal, but i had a meeting and--
goodbye.
okay...same as usual...
billy, do not eat with your fingers.
sorry.
well, i see the yankees finally won a game.
mom, i mean dad?
yeah?
can i be excused?  I am not hungry.
sure.  too much birthday cake, right?
i guess...
mom, i mean dad...
uh huh...
that is not the right soap.  we use the kind in the green and yellow box.
c'mon, there is not much difference--
we use the green and yellow.
what?
walk him over to bethesda fountain, buy him an ice.  it will kill twenty minutes.
I have got a lot more than twenty minutes to kill.
tough...  ...i get off duty at five-thirty.  how long you been divorced?
three months.  how can you tell?
you have got that look.  my lady and i split two years ago in august and I am an old pro at this shit.  first thing, stay away from the children's zoo.  it is pure hell--if i never see another chicken, I will be happy.  I am here, darling.  do not worry...
ladies and gentlemen...
ladies and gentlemen...
welcome to the greatest show on earth.
welcome to the...
greatest.
greatest...
show.
show...
on earth.
on earth.
mr. o'connor called.  there is a meeting with the revlon people in the board room and you are fifteen minutes late.
i know....i know.
mr. schmidt can not have the figures on the television buy until monday.
no.  uh, uh.  tell him i asked for it friday.  i want it friday. period.
mr. lombardo from packaging wants to meet on friday.
fine.
hiya, phyllis.  these are the revlon contracts.  i thought you ought to check them out.
sure.
yes.
yes, what?
yes, I will have dinner with you.
kramer, I have got to go.  I have got an eight of the clock closing tomorrow down on centre street.
mmmmnph...i'll get you a cab...
and?
he wanted to know if i liked fried chicken.
do you?
you ever think about getting married again?
no, not really...  i guess it is different if you do not have children, but...i dunno, even if charley and i do not live together, even if we are sleeping with other people, even if charley was to marry again...he'd still be my husband. that stuff about "till death do you part?"  that is really true.
how many onions does it say to use?
three.  and add some basil.
d'you think you and charley'll ever get back together again?
no.  i do not think so.
c'mon, thel.  so charley had a little fling.  so what? all in all he was a pretty good husband.
look,  i know this is not going to make any sense, okay?  i mean forget the logic part...but i keep thinking if charley really loved me, he would not have let me divorce him.
what the hell is this?
murray had some ideas about the fire and ice campaign and he had the art department make up a few roughs...  i think they are kind of interesting.
i don't.  jim, this is not anything like what we talked about.  it is not even close.
mom, i mean dad...
in a minute...
you get a new fence.
c'mon, billy.  I am trying to work for god's sake...
I am sorry.
je-sus christ!  i catch all kind of shit at the office because I am not pulling my weight because I am busting my butt trying to be a decent goddamn father and--
I am sorry.
that is terrific.  that is really terrific, but i notice I am the one that is cleaning up this--  oh, crap, I will have to do this one over.
I am sorry.
look, I am sorry i yelled, okay?
that is okay.
it is just...i've been catching a lot of flack at the office...
that is okay...
okay, phyllis, what is up?
kramer...
o'connor's out to get you.  he is going to take the fire and ice account away from you.
what?!?
you want to know why?  I will tell you why...  another scotch and soda for the gentleman.  I will tell you exactly why. because you are not his buddy anymore.  because he can not count on you to sit around the office every night until eight or nine and shoot the shit with him.
i can't.  I have got billy to take care of.
you dope.  o'connor does not give a damn about billy.  all he wants is somebody that will hang around with him every night so he will not have to go home.
i do not believe you.
how should i know?
murray.
so...what's so terrible about that?
oh, for god's sake, kramer. you have got to be the world's most naive human being.  murray has gone in and changed every single ad you have done on the entire fire and ice campaign. every layout...every idea...every single thing, right down the line.
no.  no, i do not believe it. jim o'connor would never let anything like that happen.  he gave me my shot in this business. if it was not for jim o'connor I would be--i do not know where I would be. he is a wonderful man...
kramer, I am sorry.  all i was trying to do was--
i do not want to hear another word against him.  not another word.  he is a wonderful man ...a wonderful man...
all right, jim.  you said i was running this show, right? you said no decisions without my approval, right?  well what the hell is this? what is going on, jim?
well, ah...i thought it over and i decided we are doing it murray's way.
jim, this is garbage.  this is not anything like what we talked to revlon about.  none of it. you can't--
that is my decision, ted and that is final.
salisbury steak.
i hate it.
you do not hate it.  we had salisbury steak last week and you liked it fine.
no i didn't.  i hate the brown stuff.  it is gross.
all it is is onions and gravy.
I am allergic to onions.
you are not allergic of onions.
i want a pizza.
no.  this is fine.  just take a bite, you will like it fine.
i think I am going to throw up.
oh, for god's sake...here.
there, okay? now that is just plain old hamburger.
some of the brown stuff is still there.
then eat around it.
no.
now listen to me, young man. do you know what i had to go through to put this goddamn food on the goddamn table?
i do not care.  i hate it.  i want pizza.
not on your life.  that is it. I have had it with crap around this house.  from now on, no more pizza!  get it?  starting right now you can eat real food like a normal human being!
no!
owwww...you're hurting me... you are hurting me...i hate you ...i hate you...
you are no bargain either, pal.
i want my mommy...i want my mommy..
i want my...mm...ommy...i want mmmy...mommy...
tough shit.  you are stuck with me.
daddy?
yeah?
I am sorry...
that is okay, pal.  go back to sleep.  it is very late.
daddy?
uh huh?
are you...gonna go...away?
is mom ever coming back?
you mean for good?
i do not think so.
oh...
now go to sleep.  it is very late.
good night.
sleep tight.
do not let the bedbugs bite.
see you in the morning light.
dad?
yes?
i love you...
thel, you ever hear from joanna?
not for a couple of months. the last time i heard from her she was living in san francisco.
california?
uh, huh...she said she had a good job, was playing a lot of tennis.  she wanted to know all about billy.
she ever ask about me?
uh, huh...yeah...
what d'you tell her?
i told her you are doing a
your boy is very lucky, mr. kramer.  one inch over and it would have caught the eye.
but I am going to have to take some stitches.
how many?
ten.
now, I would advise you to wait outside.  it will be eas--
no.
mr. kramer, there's--
fuck you.  he is my son.  I am staying with him.
ohhh...ohhhh...ohhhhh...
it is okay, son...i'm here... just a little more to go... do not worry, son...i'm here...
he is okay...thel, can i ask you a favor?
sure.
i do not mean a little favor. mean a big f favor.
thelma, if i die--
what?
i did not say I am going to die, but if i should--
do not say that!  i do not want to hear you say that!
thel, listen to me.  if, on the million to one shot that i should--  that anything should happen to me.  would you take care of billy?
me?!  you want me to take care of billy?!
i thought about it a lot and you are the only person i know that i trust with him.  i mean, if anything happened to me, he would be okay with you.  you are a good mother.
hello, ted.  you look well.
so do you.
how is the new job?
fine.
look at us, joanna.  just like any old married couple having dinner.  who would believe it.
yes...how's billy?
i can not help but feel somehow... it is my fault.  i keep thinking i could have done something-- stopped it...
you can not tell it from a distance, ted.
I have seen him.
you have?
a few times.  sometimes i sit in that coffee shop across the street and watch when you take him to school.
he looks like a terrific kid.
he is...  you sat in that coffee shop across from school--
watching my son...ted, I have been living in new york for the past two months.
you have been living here, in the city?
ted...the reason i wanted to see you...i want billy back.
you want what?!
i want my son.  I am through sitting in coffee shops looking at him from across the street. i want my son.
are you out of your mind?! you are the one that walked out on him, remember?
ted, listen to me...you and i, we had a really crappy marriage--  look, do not get so defensive, okay?  it was probably as much my fault as it was yours... anyway when i left i was really screwed up--
joanna, i do not give a--
ted, all my life I would either been somebody is daughter or somebody is wife, or somebody else's mother. then all of a sudden, i was a thirty-two-year-old, highly neurotic woman who had just walked out on her husband and child.  i went to california because that was about as far away as i could get.  only... i guess it was not far enough. so i started going to a shrink.  ted, I have had time to think. I have been through some changes. I have learned a lot about myself.
such as?
joanna, go be a mother.  get married, have kids.  do not get married, have kids.  do whatever you want.  i do not give a damn. just leave me out of it--and leave my baby out of it.
ted, if you can not discuss this rationally--
joanna, go fuck yourself!
look, she walked out on her own child, right?  that is desertion, right? mr. shaunessy, I am telling you it is an open and shut case.
first, there is no such thing as an open and shut case. especially where custody is involved.  got it?
that is if we win.  if we lose, you could end up having to pay your wife's court costs as well.
fine.
good.  you have hired yourself a hell of a lawyer, mr. kramer.  how old is the child?
six.
sleep tight.  do not let the bedbugs bite...
see you in the morning light...
disappointing.  it only pulled a fourteen share and they were hoping for a twenty-five minimum, and...ah...they're not very happy and...well, the guys have decided they want to...ah, re-think the entire concept and...look, i do not like having to do this, okay?... but...i mean, what i mean is...ah, I am going to have to...ah, let you go--
are you firing me, jim?
ummm, hmmm... umm, hmmm...  well, this looks very good.. of course  ... you understand this is the worst time of the year to look for a job.
what?!  what do you mean, i do not understand.
mr. kramer, nobody even thinks about leaving their job until after they get their christmas bonus.
look, you do not understand.  i need a job.  I have got a kid and--
i understand and I am absolutely sure something wonderful will turn up....  ...after the first of the year.
ted?  they have set the court date. i just heard today...it's...  january sixth.
oh, christ.. .john, there is some- thing i ought to tell you.  my... ah, situation has...changed.  i lost my job.
john?
ted, i will not lie to you, we do not have a hope in hell of winning a custody hearing if you are out of work.
good christ, joanna, just get the hell out of my life.
ted?  are you there?
yeah.
any prospects?
do not worry.  i plan to have something within twenty-four hours, john.
how the hell are you going to do that?
i do not know.
there might be something at j. walter thompson.  but...  ...i do not think they are really serious.  the position's been open for two months and...  they may just be on a fishing expedition.  I am sure you will be much happier if you wait until after the first--
call up the people at j. walter thompson.  set up an appointment at four.
mis-ter kramer, it's...  ...almost four now.  it is the friday before christmas.  nobody is going to want to--
either you call and set up the appointment, or I will call.  and if i call, you lose the commission.
my, we are a hot shot are not we?
what?!  she wants what?!
she is the mother.  that means she is within her legal rights.
john, what if she kidnaps him.
look, ted, i do not honestly think she would go to the trouble of suing you for custody of the child if she was planning on kidnapping him.
i do not know, john...i mean, to be brutally honest, I am not so sure what kind of mental shape joanna's in right now.  y'know she admitted she was seeing a shrink.
you ever see her talk to the walls?
no, but--
then you do not have a choice. have billy at the seventy- fifth street entrance to central park, saturday at ten.
so, naturally, you assume that since joanna left, that would be a compelling point against her, right?
right.
but it does not work that way. a major decision was handed down by the appellate court in 1969--in the case of haskins vs. haskins.
kramer--
now in haskins vs. haskins the court ruled in favor of the mother, thus establishing a precedent for awarding the child to the mother even though she previously abandoned the baby.
kramer...there's something i ought to tell you.
yeah?
I have been offered a job in washington with h.e.w.
and?
I am going to take it.
it is a very good job--too good to pass up.  I will be handling funding for the whole...  look, i...  ..."like" you a lot.  and you...  ..."like" me, okay?  maybe if it was a year from now, maybe things would be different...
but it is not a year from now, is it?
mr. kramer?
yes?
I am dr. alvarez, judge atkins asked me to look in on your son and prepare an evaluation sheet.
oh, yes.  will not you come in.
where is the child?
he is in his room, playing.
good.  I will see him in there.
mr. kramer, do you ever have sex in here with anyone?
doctor, i attempt to conduct my social life discreetly.  at the moment i am seeing no one.
does that distress you?
not particularly.
what does?
the prospect of losing my child.
very well, I would like to see him if i may.
billy.   this is dr. alvarez. she would like to talk to you.
sure.
what do you have here, billy?
detroit.
no.  but I have been to brooklyn.
i see you have people there. what are their names?
that is kim...and this one's thelma and that is mrs. willewska and this is daddy and that is batman and over there is robin.
what about your mommy?
oh, sure.  here, this can be mommy.
do you like to be with your mommy?
objection.  you are leading the witness.
sure.
what do you like best about her?
lunch in a restaurant.
what do you like best about your daddy?
playing.
tell me, does your daddy ever hit you?
objection.
sure.  lots of times.
he hits me on the planet kriptarium, when i steal the buried treasure from the famous peanut butter factory.
in real life when does he hit you?
my daddy does not hit me, silly. why would my daddy hit me?
see.  that is my name.
it is my name too.
right.
wow!
you like it?
is this really your desk?
yep.
is that really your chair?
uh huh...
wow!  that is neat.   can i sit in it?
sure.
did mommy ever see this?
no, she never did.
are you going to get remarried?
i do not know.  i had not thought much about it.
are you going to remarried phyllis?
no.
no, son.  daddy and mommy will never get remarried.
boy, i bet you if mommy ever saw this she would remarried you.
now then, mrs. kramer, would you tell the court how long you were married?
six years.
and would you describe those years as happy?
the first couple, yes, but after that it became increasingly difficult.
mrs. kramer, did you ever work in a job while you were married to your ex-husband?
no, i did not.
did you wish to?
yes.  i tried to talk to ted-- my ex-husband--about it, but he would not listen.  he refuses to discuss it in any serious way. i remember one time he said i probably could not get a job that would pay enough to hire a baby- sitter for billy.
tell me, mrs. kramer, are you employed at the present time?
yes, i work for jantzen as a sportswear designer.
and what is your present salary?
i make thirty-one thousand dollars a year.
mrs. kramer, do you love your child?
yes.  very much.
and yet you chose to leave him?
yes...look, during the last five years we were married, i had...i was getting more and more...unhappy, more and more frustrated.  i needed to talk to somebody.  i needed to find out if it was me, if i was going crazy or what.  but every time i turned to ted--my ex-husband, he could not handle it.  he became very...i do not know, very threatened.  i mean, when- ever i would bring up anything he would act like it was some kind of personal attack.  anyway, we became more and more separate ...more and more isolated from one another.  finally, i had no other choice, i had to leave. and because of my ex-husband's attitude--his unwillingness to deal with my feelings, i had come to have almost no self- esteem...  at the time i left, i sincerely believed that there was something wrong with me--that my son would be better off without me.  it was only when i got to california and started into therapy i began to realize i was not a terrible person.  and that just because i needed some creative and emotional outlet other than my child, that did not make me unfit to be a mother.
your honor, i would like to place in evidence a report on mrs. kramer's therapy by her therapist, dr. elinore freedman of la jolla, california.
mr. kramer, why did you set up residence in new york?
because my son is here.  and his father is here.  as a mother, i do not want my child to be separated from his father.
mrs. kramer, can you tell the court why you are asking for custody?
now then, mrs. kramer, you said you were married seven years. is that correct?
yes.
in all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way.
no.
did your husband strike or physically abuse his child in any way?
no.
would you describe your husband as an alcoholic?
no.
a heavy drinker?
no.
was he unfaithful?
no.
did he ever fail to provide for you?
no.
well, i can certainly understand why you left him.
objection.
how long do you plan to live in new york, mrs. kramer?
i do not recall.
how many lovers have you had-- permanently?
i do not recall.
more than three, less than thirty- three--permanently?
objection!
overruled.  the witness will answer, please.
somewhere in between.
do you have a lover now?
objection!
your honor, i would request a direct answer to a direct question.  does she have a lover?
is that...permanent?
i...i do not know...
then, we do not really know, do we, when you say "permanently" if you are planning to remain in new york, or even to keep the child for that matter, since you have never really done anything in your life that was continuing, stable, that could be regarded as permanent.
objection!  i must ask that the counsel be prevented from harassing the witness.
sustained.
mrs. kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult?
objection!
whom you have seen twice in a year? mrs. kramer, your ex-husband, was not he the longest personal relationship in your life?
i suppose...
would you speak up, mrs. kramer? i could not hear you.
yes.
how long was that?
we were married two years before the baby.  and then four very difficult years.
so, you were a failure at the longest, most important relationship in your life.
objection!
overruled.
i was not a failure.
oh?  what do you call it then --a success?  the marriage ended in divorce.
i consider it less my failure than his.
congratulations, mrs. kramer. you have just rewritten matrimonial law.  you were both divorced, mrs. kramer.
objection!
your honor, I would like to ask what this model of stability and respectability has ever succeeded at?  mrs. kramer, were you a failure at the longest, most important personal relationship in your life?
were you?
yes.
jesus christ.  did you have to be so rough on her?
do you want the kid or do not you?
now then, mr. o'connor, how long did ted kramer work for you?
eight, almost nine years.
and did you have a close personal relationship?
yes...
and how did you find his work?
it was good.  he was a hard worker, a lot of drive, a real hustler.
and yet you fired him.
ted was a good worker.  but, ah... ... after his wife left him and he was taking care of the kid on his own, things started to change. look, i know he had problems, i understand that.  I have got problems, everybody's got problems.  but I have got a shop to run, i can not let that kind of thing get in the way...  i guess i felt that ted was letting his duties at home interfere with his responsibilities in the office.
thank you.  i have no further questions.
mom--i mean, dad?
uh, huh?
what did you do when you were little?
i guess about the same kind of things you do.
did you watch "i dream of jeannie?"
uh, uh...we did not have television then.
was there apple juice when you were little?
yeah, there was apple juice.
was there burger king?
uh, uh.  there was no such a thing as burger king.
what else was not there?
mrs. phillips, how long have you known ted kramer?
six years.  ever since ted and joanna moved into the building.
how often do you see mr. kramer and his son?
charley, my husband, and i are ...divorced and kim, that is our daughter is about billy's age and the children play together a lot.  so, i guess we see each three or four times a week.
can you describe the relationship between mr. kramer and his son?
it is beautiful.  it is just beautiful. they have a beautiful relationship.
objection, your honor.  the answer is, to be generous, very vague.
can you recall any particular incident that relates to mr. kramer's care of his child?
no further questions.  thank you mrs. phillips.
no questions.
mr. kramer, would you tell the court exactly why you want to retain custody of your child.
when joanna--  my ex-wife--when she was talking before about how unhappy she was during our marriage...well, i guess most of what she said was probably true.  there were a lot of things i did not understand-- a lot of things i would do different if i could.  just like i guess there are a lot of things joanna wishes she could change...but we can't.  some things, once they are done, can not be undone.  joanna says she loves billy.  i believe she does.  so do i.  but the way it was explained to me, that is not the issue.  the only thing that is supposed to matter here is what is best for billy...when joanna said why should not a woman have the same ambitions as a man, i suppose she is right.  but by the same token what law is it that says a woman is a better parent simply by virtue of her sex?  i guess I have had to think a lot about whatever it is that makes somebody a good parent:
so do i.
objection!
sustained.
mr. kramer, is not it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago?
objection, your honor!  counsel is harassing the witness.
your honor, I am only examining the man's employment record.  he pretends to fitness when he cannot hold a job.
objection!  your honor, counsel is raising a question that is not germane to these proceedings.
while the child was in the care of the witness, he cut his face badly and is now scarred.
are you introducing the question of negligence here, counselor?
yes, your honor.
i see.  well, you will have to do better than that.  do you have any affidavits to support negligence?
i do not, your honor, however--
this is an isolated incident, counselor, unless you can prove otherwise.
does the witness deny the injury took place?
no, counselor, I am going to over- rule you on this line of questioning.
then i have concluded my questions.
I am sorry...i just mentioned it in passing.  i never thought he would use it.
yeah, well he did, did not he.
please, ted.  i never would have brought it up if i thought--
I am not interested, joanna. goodbye.
you heard anything yet?
any day.
ted.
uh, huh...
ah, charley and i are...well, we are thinking about...i mean, actually we are sort of talking about maybe getting back together.
you and charley?
hey, that is terrific.
maybe.  i said maybe.  what i mean is, ah...i do not think it will really work out, but charley seems to want it, so...
oh, christ!
the judge went for motherhood straight down the line.
i lost him?  i lost him?
i can not tell you how sorry i am.
oh, no..
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the petitioner be awarded custody of the minor child, effective monday the 23rd of january.  that the respondent pay for the maintenance and support of said child, four hundred dollars each month.  that the father shall have the following rights of visitation: every other weekend, one night each week to be mutually agreed upon and one half of the child's vacation period.  that is it.
what if i fight it?
we can appeal, but i can not guarantee anything.
I will take my chances.
it is going to cost.
do not worry.  I will get the money.
please go away, thel...i...i just have to be by myself for a little while...
ted, i just heard...
please, thel...
daddy!  you are home early.  did you get fired again?
no, son, i did not get fired.  I will tell you what we will do, okay?  how about if we go to a burger king and then we watch a little t.v. and then we get packed to go to the country tomorrow. just you and me...how 'bout that?
billy, sometimes when a mother and a father are divorced, there is a discussion about who the child should live with, the mother or the father.  now there is a man who is very wise.  he is called a judge.  and a judge has a lot of experience with divorces and he decides who it would be best for the child to live with.
why does he decide?
because...well, that is what he does.  he is a very powerful man.
like a principal?
bigger than a principal.  the judge sits in robes in a big chair.. the judge has thought a lot about us, about you and me and your mom, and he has decided...  ...he has decided that it would be best for you to live with your mom joanna in her apartment.  and I am very lucky.  because even though you will live with your mom joanna I will get to see you once a week for dinner and a couple of weekends a month.
i do not understand, daddy.
what do not you understand, pal?
where will my bed be, where will i sleep?
at your mom's.  she will have a bed for you in your own room.
where will my toys be?
I will send your toys there and I am sure you will get some new ones.
who will read me my stories?
your mom.
daddy, what if the face comes when I am at mommy's?
your mom knows all about the face, okay?  do not worry, she will tell the face to beat it.
will you come and say good-night to me every night?
okay, I am here.  now why did you--
ted, do you love him?
goddamnit, joanna. what the--
ted, do you love him?
ted, when we got married it was because i was twenty-seven years old and i thought i should get married and...when i had billy it was because i thought i should have a baby...and i guess all i did was mess up my life and your life and--
joanna, what the hell is--
please...please do not stop me. this is the hardest thing I have ever had to do..
after i left...when i was in california, i began to think, what kind of mother was i that i could walk out on my own child. it got to where i could not tell anybody about billy--i could not stand that look in their faces when i said he was not living with me.  finally it seemed like the most important thing in the world to come back here and prove to billy and to me and to the world how much i loved him...and i did ...and i won.  only...it was just another "should."  ...sitting in that courtroom. hearing everything you did, everything you went through... something happened.  i guess it does not matter how much i love him, or how much you love him. i guess it is like you said, the only thing that counts is what is best for billy.  i do not know, maybe that is all love is anyway... ted, i think billy should stay with you...
what?
he is already got one mother, he does not need two...he's yours...  i will not fight you for him any more. he is yours...
oh, god...oh, my god...
only can i still see him?
no more waiting in coffee shops ...i promise.
okay...i think I will go talk to my son now.  how do i look?
beautiful.
