is not it fashionable any more to put on a sailor's cap with the name of the yacht?
no, dad, it isn't.
and how long will you be away?
four or five days.
oh, very well. I will just spend the weekend alone by myself and take a little rest. i should be used to it by now.
used to what?
to the fact of my retirement, not only as a diplomat but also as a father.
but how could you say such a thing?
because it is true. after thirty years -- not having ever spoken the truth to anyone, i should at least allow myself to do so with my own daughter.
and have you any other truths to tell me?
you already know what they are.
you mean sandro, do not you?  well, i beg of you, please, spare me that. goodbye, dad.
up until now, dad, I have been the one who has not wanted to marry him.
it is the same thing. goodbye, dear.
but where are you going?
I am thirsty.
if i had a man waiting for me for half an hour and whom i had not seen for a month ...
you know, i could just as well go without seeing him today.
what! after giving us such a run around...
but your friend is waiting downstairs.
she will wait.
i have a feeling that you are not used to being alone.
that seems to apply to you also...
do not be so humble.
how should i be ... arrogant?
but of course... arrogant, haughty... has not anna ever told you?
there is nothing much to laugh at.
and that is what i say, too. we could have all been killed.
it is as smooth and slick as oil.
i detest comparisons made with oil.
did you sleep well?
yes, fairly well. but i went to bed last night planning to do some thinking about a number of things ... instead, i fell asleep.
i did not know one could sleep so well on a yacht. it lulls you ...
shall we go for a swim?
oh, no... please... not here.  it looks too dangerous.
at one time the aeolian isles were all volcanoes.
you must know your third grade geography book inside out.
what is that one over there called?
that must be basiluzzo.
sounds like the name of a fish -- merluzzo, basiluzzo...
let's see you dive from the top of those rocks, giulia. that would be really sensational.  come on, giulia ... your life is much too circumscribed.
what has everybody got against me this morning?
why have we stopped?
lady patrizia!
raimondo... do you enjoy fishing underwater?
i detest it. but, after all, what can you do... it is the latest...and i try my best to adapt myself.
when do you have to go back?
i do not know... it depends on ettore... he is now in the process of negotiating for a contract here in sicily...
then how come you are not with him?
what a question... because i want to be with you, naturally. i hope he does not close the deal so he will leave me alone at least for a few days... is not this water wonderful!
I would like to find a place where i can get some peace and rest, maybe around here somewhere. I would like to try...
what could be more restful than this?...  excuse me, what is it that you want to try?
where is she going?
ask her.
I am going ashore to take a look around the island. there are some ruins up there...
there too...
well, we are still in italy, you know!
what happened?
there is a shark in the area. do not move from where you are!
who is moving?
which one shall i wear?
this one is gorgeous.
then why do not you try it on?
how are you?
fine. can not you see so yourself?
anna... maybe it would be better to wait a while.
wait for what?
well, with a shark running loose around the place, i for one will not get aboard that raft! they will have to catch it first. i want to see it right here before my feet, dead or alive.
better dead.
claudia, are not you coming?
I am certainly not going to swim across.
we will send the raft back to you.
now, tell the truth, are not you a bit disappointed?... but i already told you...
if women's breasts were colored, yours would be blue...
tell me, claudia, what do you think of raimondo?
i would say he is pretty depraved.
oh no; quite the contrary. he is really just a child.
patrizia, do not start in again... i would rather be called depraved. unless you happen to love children.
you know, i do not love anybody.
i know, dammit, i know!  and just think -- if there ever was a woman so right, so perfectly cut out for all kinds of dissipations, degradations, infidelities... of.. . of... of debaucheries, it is her. well, anyway, she is faithful. faithful out of laziness... of unwillingness.
he amuses me. i do not know of anything more amusing. outside of this jigsaw puzzle. do not you find it so, claudia?
one would have to be in love with somebody to know that.
have you ever been in love?
not really... it is suffocating in here... shall we go out?
who are you talking to?
to the shark.
say, claudia, would not you like to climb up with me and take a look over there?
at what?
at the ruins. they are very ancient, you know.
well?
well, what?
have you decided?
all i said was that it sounds like a good idea.
why did not you ask me to go with you?
do you know why? because if you saw those ruins I am sure you would have said they were very, very beautiful. you always say "how beautiful" to everything -- whether it is the sea, or a baby, or a cat! you have such a sensitive little heart that it throbs for anything.
but corrado...  if something is beautiful why should not one say so?
he never misses a chance to humiliate me, to let me know that he does not care about me any more.
giulia, that remark is not worthy of our twelve years of honest concubinage. i repeat, once and for all, and publicly, that i admire you. does that please you?
twelve years ... but why have not they married?
and why have not they left each other?
I am beginning to have my doubts. it could not be that they are in love?
could be. they are the kind of people who are capable of anything.
the trouble with you is that nobody can speak to you, that is all.
giulia, do not you understand that the more involved you become with people, the more difficult it is to speak with them?
you men are all so dreadful!
i know we are. but as the years go by, we become even worse. is not that so, corrado?
how wonderful!
that is patrizia's way of letting us know she is with us.
i think you are very sweet, corrado.
more so than the shark?
there is no comparison.
then why do not we go up and see the ruins?
sandro... a month is too long a time. i have become used to being without you.
you will get over it soon. it is the usual anxiety.
a little more so this time.
so, it will just take you a little longer to get over it.
but i think we should talk about it. or are you fully convinced that we too will not understand each other?
there will be plenty of time to talk about it later.  we will  get married  soon.  that way we will have more time...
in this case, getting married means nothing. are not we already the same as being married? and corrado and giulia -- are not they already the same as being married?
but why rattle your brains by arguing and talking... believe me, anna, words never help at all. they only serve to confuse. i love you, anna. is not i that enough?
no. it is not enough... i told you before that i would like to get away for a while and be alone.
but you just said that a month was too...
i mean, to stay away longer -- two months... a year... three years... yes, i know, it sounds absurd. and i feel awful. the very idea of losing you makes me want to die... and yet... i... i just do not have the same feeling for you any more.
and what about yesterday... at my house... did not you have any feeling for me, even then?
there you go... must you always spoil everything!
looks like the weather is changing.
please, giulia; must you always emphasize the obvious? i can see for myself that the weather is changing.
you have made some mistake there with the bushes... that is why you can not finish it.
take it easy, raimondo. why are you getting so impatient?
find anything?
no.
it is really a fact -- there is nothing new under the sun. now, look here. look at this structure... a kind of natural shelter. sandro, that is how you should design your houses.
me?... i no longer have any interest in building... and, then, where can you find boulders of rock like this in milan?
somebody must live here!
but anna would not be staying with the kind of people who live here.
perhaps she was not feeling well... maybe a cramp or something...
anna is an excellent swimmer. even with a cramp, she would have managed to reach shore somehow.
but you have to  consider all possibilities, sandro.
let's try to be practical about this. the best thing to do is for all of you to go to the closest island that has a police station, or something, and report the disappearance. I will remain here... because... well, i do not know, but it seems to me that something may turn up. anyway, i just do not feel like leaving.
then let's get started... it is senseless to waste any more time.
I will stay here also.
but why?... what if it starts to rain?
if it rains, I will buy myself an umbrella.
claudia, i know how you feel, but there are already two of us staying...
I will go even further and say that her presence here -- i do not want to sound offensive -- could be a great hindrance.
as far as I am concerned, i think she is alive... why, even this morning... that business about the shark... it was not at all true.
and why do you tell us this only now?
i... i do not know... i did not think it was worthwhile... she was laughing over it...
really! still, it remains to be seen why she invented a shark. what was her purpose in that?
maybe you would better ask him.
what were you and anna arguing about?... excuse me for being so indiscreet, but this is serious...
nothing but the usual argument... the only thing was -- if i remember correctly -- that she said she had a need to be alone.
and how do you explain that?
are you the owner of this place?
no. the owners are in australia.
but where did you come from?
from panarea. why?
nothing... nothing at all!
but why do not you tell him?  a girl who was with us has disappeared.
and i suppose it is my fault... why do not you tell him that too. that is what you believe, is not it?
rather than being so occupied with my thoughts, you would have been better off trying to understand what anna was thinking.
are you feeling better?
I am sorry about last night. please forgive me.
you are very fond of anna, are not you?
yes, very much so.
has she ever spoken to you about me?
occasionally, but always with affection.
and yet, she seemed to feel that our love for her -- mine, yours, even her father's, in a certain sense -- were not enough for her, or did not mean much to her.
i know. i keep asking myself what i could have done to prevent all this from happening.
whose boat is that?
what boat?
just a moment ago... did not you hear the sound of a motor?
at this time of the year there are so many boats...
and how come you are up so early?
early? is four in the morning early for you?
how did you spend the night?... in that hut?... and what did you have to eat?
what do you think?
we, too, you know. it was disastrous. first at panarea, where there were not any boats... then at lipari, where everybody was asleep... and the phone call to rome...
anything new develop?
unfortunately, no.
very well. first of all, I will have them search the waters around the island. i brought two frogmen with me... meanwhile, we will take a look up around here.
look, marshal, with those deep crevasses, you will need some rope and ladders...
do not worry, we have got everything.
another thing; there is an old man who lives here on the island...
i know, i know. one thing at a time.
listen, patrizia... the marshal says there is a current that passes by here and ends up at another island... i do not know which... he wants to send one of his men over to have a look... one never knows... do you mind if i ask raimondo to go with him?
i do not see why i should mind.
i think that you might go and have a look yourself.
yes, maybe that is better.
what amazes me, is sandro. he seems so calm.
calm?... he does not seem so to me... he was awake all night.
corrado, why do not you ask them to give it to us as a gift?
really! so that you can stuff it with your geraniums.
it is already two hours... what are we going to do?
it takes about twenty to twenty-two hours for the current to reach here from lisca bianca.
these people are contemptible. they have no sense of dignity at all.
and you say that came from lisca bianca?
it could not have come from anywhere else. at least, somewhere from that vicinity... but i really can not understand it. contraband cigarettes on that island! it is the first time that ever happened.
look... I would like to get back to lisca bianca.
but how could we...at a time like this when we just... well, let's at least first have a look around the other islands. could be that something might turn up there.
but even here we were supposed to find who knows what... and all we bring back with us is a crate of cigarettes.
as you wish.
i presume by this method that you will be able to uncover some new clue, either a handkerchief or an article of clothing... in other words, something which your men have not been able to find as yet.
without any doubt, sir. if anything belonging to the girl who has run away is still here on this island...
allow me to inform you that my daughter is not a fugitive.
I am sorry, sir. i did not mean to put it that way. but, you must understand, sir, that i...
i understand very well. only i do not want any rash assumptions to be made.
this looks to me like a good sign. do not you think so? as far as I am concerned, anyone who reads the bible could not have committed an act of impropriety. why... as a matter of fact, i remember when i was in china, many years ago, i happened to be involved in a similar situation, concerning an english woman, the wife of ambassador shafford, a good friend of mine. there, too, we found a bible... and i said at the time that whatever had happened, that clue alone had definitely ruled out the possibility of... suicide. why, it was logical, i said, that whoever reads the bible believes in god and therefore...  no? you do not believe it? well, as a matter of fact, i was right... the woman was found two days later. it was a case of amnesia.
sir, if you have no objections, may we start the search?
and what are we going to do now?
we will try again.
up until now those smugglers were operating only around the palermo area. this will be a nice surprise for the lieutenant in milazzo... call up headquarters. bring them up to date and have them give you instructions on what to do with this crate.
so... the boat we saw yesterday afternoon might have also been that of these smugglers. could it be possible, then, that anna...?
i wonder where they could have unloaded the stuff ... maybe right here at lisca.
i was saying... it might even be possible that anna had left with them.
but for what reason would she have wanted to go away?
listen, marshal... as for there being reasons for going away, anyone of us might have three thousand of them. so you can assume that she had them. what i want to know, is it possible that the smugglers might have taken her aboard?
i think it is possible.
patrizia, what are you going to do?
what do you want us to do? i do not know myself... but we will do something.
I will go and get my valise.
we have decided to go to montaldo's place. in fact, ettore should already be there.
good. then I will meet you there.
I am going with the patrol boat to make a tour around the islands.
to do what?
i just can not leave without first searching those islands, one by one.
but are not you tired? i can just about manage to stand on my feet!  raimondo!
here i am, patrizia. I am always here.
claudia is not coming with us. will you please take care of her luggage? thanks.
they tell me you have a lot of trouble at home. is that right?
yes, sir. my sister is sick... and my father, too.
so that is why you have turned to smuggling, eh? you need the money. now, i can help you. i can see that you get some assistance from the government. but first there is a little formality we have got to take care of. just a few questions and then we can all go to lunch... your friend tells me you dropped anchor three times...
yes, sir. three times.
now, we are getting somewhere! they are beginning to contradict each other.  now look here, your friend just swore to me that you were not able to do any fishing at all because the sea was too rough... and what about the other boat?
what other boat?
now look, my men saw it and they also saw you men throwing those crates overboard. what have you got to say about that?
i ... i ... was not feeling well ... i.. i was sleeping... i do not know anything ... i ... I am all mixed up and ...
where are you going?... to montaldo's?
yes.
then I will go with you.
have you read it?... they are asking for anyone with information to get in touch with them.
yes. i had also thought of going there to talk with them...
yes, you should go.
but then when will we see each other?
sandro, i do not want you to come with me, i do not want to see you... how can i make it clear to you?...why did you come?
i do not know why. i just could not help it.
but sooner or later we have got to end this relationship. and it is better to do it right now.
i have no desire to sacrifice myself... it is idiotic to sacrifice oneself... why?... for whom? if anna were here i might understand your scruples. but she is not...
oh, sandro...
I am sorry. i did not want to sound cynical. but is not it better to look things squarely in the eye?
for me they are exactly as they were when we met three days ago -- just three days ago... do not you realize? and you and anna... no, i guess they are not like that any more. my god, is it possible to forget in such a short time, for things to change so quickly?
it takes even less.
but it is so sad. so terribly sad. I am not used to it, I am not ready for it... you know... i have never been so upset in my life. sandro, why do not you help me?
i think the only way to help ourselves, claudia, is for us to be together.
no, I am sure it won't. move over there. let's make believe nothing happened. and when we get to the next station, get off.
and what about you?
me... i... i... please leave me alone.
i work there but I am really a stranger.
i tell you this acquaintance of mine knows you and she has often spoken to me about you.
and who is she? does she work in catania?
yes, she takes care of the garden.
then it is impossible for her to know me. in the villa where I am at, we have a male gardener.
so? that is logical. you see, both being gardeners, they spoke about you to one another.
and what did they say about me?
they told me that you were a very nice girl, that you always mind your business... in other words, things of that sort.
we have a radio like this, too.
no, not like this one.
and why would not we have one like this?
because this is a chinese radio.
certainly a radio this small is very practical. it is especially useful for... i do not know... for traveling.
but for you, what comes first: music or love?
music, of course. to get a sweetheart, one has to look around, but to get a radio, all you have to do is buy one.
ah, no... for me, love comes first. I am a man, and i know what is what: first love, and then music.
claudia, listen to me...
no, sandro, please... i ask you as a favor...
promise that you will not try to look for me... you should not try to look for me any more...
but why, claudia?... why?
but where did you finally end up?
it was futile. we went all over.
but how can you carry on a discussion in this heat?
when one approaches fifty, my dear, he is affected only by the cold.
and who is this?
this is claudia, anna's friend...  you have never met my husband, have you?
first let the poor thing have something to eat.
it would not really do you any harm to skip a meal.
goffredo is the princess' nephew. he is eighteen years old, the lucky boy. and, what do you know -- he paints.
anybody can hold a brush in his hand. all you need is to buy some oils and start painting. even rembrandt did the same.
zuria?
yes. until proven otherwise.
i would like to ask you something.
wait a moment. can not you see I am busy?
she costs a hundred thousand lire.
you are kidding!
no, I am not. why do you think she does all this? it is one of the many ways she can put herself on display. when you bait the trap, the mouse will snap. to tell you the truth,  if it was not for the fact that one hundred thousand lire represents my whole month's salary, well... but you had something you wanted to ask me?
i read one of your articles regarding the disappearance of a girl. I am that girl's fianc.
oh... I am sorry i have to rush but I have got to write a story about this thing that just happened... tell me exactly how it all turned out.
now listen, if i had any information, i would not have come here to ask you. but i see that you, too, lack any information ...
as a matter of fact, I have already had several phone calls on that article. one said they had seen the missing girl in an automobile somewhere in rome. another one said they saw her on the pier talking with some strange sailors... could be she secretly left the island by boat...
is that possible?
who knows?... another one has it that she entered a store in troina. this information comes from the storekeeper himself who stated that such and such a girl had bought i do not know what in his store... at troina.
is that far from here?
about fifty miles or so. if you want, I will give you the name of the storekeeper.
yes... of course... but you should also print that in your paper... but right away, tomorrow morning... it is the local palermo paper, is not it?... i mean, it is widely read...
yes, but why do you think our readers would be interested in such news now? even if i sent it, the editors would not print it.
you really must do me this one favor.
pardon me, but why must i do you a favor?
then let's call it a business proposition. something to round out your salary.
it is divine!
you say that just to flatter me.
do you consider that a compliment?
no.
please, you come too...
but for what reason should i come there?
please, do come... do not leave me alone with him. he is capable of... i do not know... have you noticed his eyes?
giulia...
here i am.
they are all nudes, if I am not mistaken.
but why all nudes?
because there is no landscape as beautiful as a woman.
and where do you find the models?
oh, there are as many as one wants.
i thought the model was something obsolete nowadays. did not you, claudia?
it is strange how anxious women are to display themselves. it is almost a natural inclination.
but how could they pose like that? i couldn't.
why do not you try?
me... goffredo, you are mad!  he is mad.
do not you ever paint men?
answer me, why do not you try posing? I will paint you a beautiful portrait.
but why me?... ask claudia, she is much more beautiful than me.
but i want to paint you. you appeal to me more.
i appeal to you more?
and tell corrado, too, that I am here... if he wants me. you can also tell him that my tiny little heart is beating like mad, and that at this moment, it is the only thing that interests me. is that clear?
it could not be any clearer.
now what do i have to do to be left in peace?
i think all you have to do, giulia, is to close the door.
I am not coming.
but then why did you bother changing?
any news?
yes... but it is all so conflicting... however, there is some slight indication...
i only exchanged a few casual words with her, as one would ordinarily do on a public bus...
and do you remember where she got off?
well...probably at the last stop, which is noto.
then you should also be able to tell me where a young girl might stay in noto; are there any hotels or rooming houses?
there is the trinacria hotel... or the regina, near the municipal building. as for rooming houses, i do not know...
thank you.
do not mention it... pleased to be of service any time.
let's get out of here, fast... this is not a town, it is a cemetery.
who knows why they all left...
sandro ... maybe it is best that you go in alone.
are you joking?
do not think that i want to save myself from any embarrassment, from the awkwardness of meeting anna... it is not that; it is that you can say certain things easier if you are alone. please, sandro, do try to understand me... it would look like i was trying to influence you, to force you, to control you... and that makes me feel uncomfortable...
what is it, claudia?
oh, sandro... I am so ashamed of myself, so ashamed...i tried to hide myself...i feel so small... i hate myself ...
does it please you to say such things?
oh no... it does not please me at all...
then why do you say them?
because what I am doing is so ugly ... because if you told me right now: "claudia, i love you," i would believe you...
good. it is better if it were absurd. that would mean nothing much can be done about it.
but just think -- the very same things you had said to her who knows how many times... maybe even just before we left, while i was waiting outside your place...
so, even if i did say them, i was sincere with her, as i am now with you.
really, I have got to stop this business with ettore... i would like to go back and start working on my own projects again. you know, i had many ideas...
and why did you drop them?
once they gave me a job to draw up an estimate for the construction of a school. it took me only a day and a half to finish it, and i got paid six million lire. ever since then I have been doing estimates for other people's designs.
why are you looking at me like that?
I am sure you would be able to design some very lovely things.
i do not know about that. and then, who is interested in beautiful things nowadays?
claudia, let's get married?
what! get married?
yes. we will get married. you and i. what do you say?
what do i say? what can i say? no. at least, not yet. i do not know... i can not even think of it... at a time like this... oh, but why did you have to ask me?
you look at me as though i had said something foolish...
and are you sure you want to marry me? are you really sure...that you want to marry... me?
that is why i asked you...
so... oh, how i wish that everything were so much simpler... that people could just come together by the color of their hair or the size of their shoes. what size shoe do you wear? size 9. that is a very lovely size. but I am sorry, i wear size 8.
but why am i so infatuated with you?
hurry up now, or it will begin to get hot outside...
yes, yes, yes, yes... right away...
and you leave me here all alone... in this hotel room...
as soon as you are ready, you can come down and catch up with me. I will be waiting for you right outside on the square.
but you know it already. why must i tell you?
so, you wonder why?
then I will see you later.
okay. in a few minutes.
sandro ...what's the matter?
nothing.
no, sandro... please...
why?
no reason why...
sandro, wait a moment, just one moment... you seem like an entirely different person ...
and are not you pleased?... that way you will have a new kind of adventure.
what are you saying?
i was only joking, really... can not i make a joke? and now you have got to tell me why you do not want to.
oh, sandro... i want everything you do. but...
did the hotel manager speak to you about that place nearby?
yes, she started to but i did not feel like staying to listen to what she had to say. if we had to listen to everybody...
no, sandro... we should go. besides, we have not been in touch with anybody. not even with anna's father. we should have at least sent a wire or telephoned... let's be fair, he must be feeling awfully lonely.
i do not doubt it. but at a time like this we are the least suitable persons to be with him. and as far as telephoning him... who knows where he is?
should not we try to find a quieter place?
quieter? oh, yes, of course.
and here's sandro.  why do not you two go upstairs and change?
yes, we will.
did you manage to find good rooms?
they did not seem too good.
you should have told ettore. he always manages to get what he wants.
ettore must be fed up with me by now.
oh, no, not at all. and then you know very well that he will forgive you anything; just as long as you admit to him that you are a worse driver than he is...
how do you manage to put up with all this confusion? you always said people bore you.
you should not always take me seriously. actually, I am used to it by now. first my mother and now my husband; both of them are like dynamos.
your mother?
yes, even i had a mother. she was part austrian, but she was still my mother. my childhood was like a tennis match; they bounced me back and forth, here and there...
my childhood, instead, was a very sensible one.
what do you mean by sensible?
it means being without money.
sandro, listen... try not to get yourself too involved tomorrow.
are not you going to change?
you said you wanted to quit working for ettore.
sandro, I am not coming down.
why?
I am too sleepy.
sleep is something one must learn to overcome. i learned how to do it when i was a child. i never slept. and i had friends who even slept less than i did. the one who went to bed first, paid a penalty. and we really did not do anything. after seeing a movie, we would go to a cafe and discuss things for a while... then we would sit down on a bench somewhere... listen to some drunkard... watch them putting up posters or manifestoes...or look at the sheep passing by... or go for a stroll around the market place... or else we would go and wake up some girl in the neighborhood by standing in front of her window and calling out her name...
you are that sleepy, eh? what time do expect to get up tomorrow?
late, very late.
good night, my love.
good night. tell me that you love me.
i love you.
tell me once more.
i do not love you.
i deserve it.
patrizia... patrizia ... where is ettore?
i imagine he must be inside sleeping.
would you please see if sandro is with him? he is not in his room. I am sorry to disturb you.
ettore...
what is it?
nothing, nothing  at all. i was just looking for sandro.
and you expect to find him in here? go and ask claudia.
yes, yes, of course.
patrizia, I am afraid.
more or less, we are all afraid. especially at night.
I am afraid that anna has come back. i feel she is back, and that they are together.
but what is gotten into you?... we would have known. sandro must be out in the garden somewhere, taking a breath of fresh air, or watching the break of dawn. it would be a lovely surprise indeed if he turned out to be the sentimental type.
now, listen. for god's sake, try not to let yourself become obsessed with that idea. go to your room and get back into bed.
just several days ago, the thought of anna being dead would have made me sick. and now, i do not even cry, I am afraid she might be alive. everything is becoming so damned simple and easy, even to deprive one's self of pain and suffering.
you should never wish to get melodramatic over anything.
yes, you are right. I am sick and tired of being like that.
