officer white.  i heard you got a hard-on for wife beaters.
and you fuck people up for a living.  that do not make me you. capisce, shitbird?
big v jack vincennes!  may i have this dance?
karen, this is sid hudgeons from hush-hush magazine.
we did a piece last year. 'ingenue dykes in hollywood.'  her name got mentioned.
is she?
beats me.  look, jackie-boy, a friend of mine just sold some reefer to matt reynolds.  he is tripping the light fantastic with tammy jordan at 2245 maravilla, hollywood hills.  it is right around the corner.
you lost me, sid.  who?
contract players at metro.  you pinch 'em.  i do you up feature in the next issue.  plus the usual fifty cash.  tell me, am i fucking santa claus?
i need an extra fifty.  two patrolmen at twenty apiece and a dime for the watch commander at hollywood station.
jack!  it is christmas!
no.  it is felony possession of marijuana.
they are sitting in the dark, goofing on the christmas tree.
stand there with your camera. I will stop here so you get grauman's chinese in the backgrouns.
i like it!  i like it!
it is christmas morning in the city of angels, and while decent citizens sleep the sleep of the righteous, hopheads prowl for marijuana, not knowing that a man is coming to stop them.  the free- wheeling, big-time big v, celebrity crime-stopper, jack vincennes, the scourge of grasshoppers and junk fiends everywhere.  you like it, jackie- boy?
yeah, it is subtle.
what is on the call sheet?
a guy dressed as santa has been exposing himself to kids in los feliz.  apparently, sir, he is decorated himself.
decorated?
with tinsel and plastic icicles and... on his penis, sir.
i get the idea.  you got a description?
of his penis, sir?
merry christmas.
merry christmas yourself, officer.
that obvious, huh?
it is practically stamped on your forehead.
she is fine.
I am not asking you.
somebody hit you?
it is not what you think.
you know him?
seen him around.  he used to be a cop.
that was his favorite toast.  i saw the test results on the lieutenant's exam.  you placed first out of twenty-three.
the youngest applicant by eight years.
you will make lieutenant inside a year.  patrol division?
i was thinking detective bureau.
you are wrong.
am i...?  would you be willing to plant corroborative evidence on a suspect you knew was guilty in order to ensure an indictment?
dudley, we have been over this.
answer yes or no.
i... no.
would you be willing to rig crime scene evidence to support a prosecuting attorney's working hypothesis...?  yes or no, edmund.
no.
would you be willing to beat confessions out of suspects you knew to be guilty?
no.
would you be willing to shoot hardened criminals in the back to offset the chance --
no.
then for god's sake, do not be a detective.  stick to assignments where you will not have to make those choices.  patrol, internal affairs, but not the bureau.
i know you mean well, dudley, but i do not need to do it the way you did.  or my father.
at least get rid of the glasses. i can not think of one bureau man who wears them.
hey, partner.  grab a cup.
i got to write my report first.
pacific coast bell.
this is sgt. vincennes. requesting a name and address on a phone number.  hollywood zero-one- two-three-nine.
please hold the line... no such number is assigned.
i just called it.
no, sergeant.  i checked twice.
a bootleg...
ed, your observations have been astute.  what is your assessment of this situation?
the public demands justice, sir. this was a full-fledged riot of policemen.  shift the guilt to men whose pensions are secured.  force them to retire.  but someone has to swing.  indict, try and convict stensland and bud white.  secure them jail time.  feed them to the sharks, sir.  protect yourself; protect the department.
stensland's a disgrace.  straight d fitness reports from every c.o. he ever served under.  but white is a valuable officer.
white's a mindless thug.
no, edmund.  he is a man who can answer yes to those questions i ask you from time to time.
i want to know who we give the public in contrast?  the department needs role models. clean-cut, forthright men the public can admire.
I will testify, sir.  I am not afraid to do what is right.
and I will promote you.  you will be a lieutenant immediately.
ed, you are 30.  your father did not make lieutenant until he was 33.
i know that, sir.  i also know that when he made lieutenant, it was as a detective.
jack vincennes.  he is the technical advisor on 'badge of honor,' sir.  he lives for it. that is the way to get him.
all right, ed.  call sergeant vincennes.
you will reap the benefits, but are you truly prepared to be despised within the department?
yes, dudley.  i am.
so be it.
john, i doubt you have ever drawn a stupid breath.  do not start now.
okay.  I will do it.
you are the key witness?
that is right.
i should have known.  what is the chief throwing you?
throwing me?
yeah, exley.  what is the payoff?
you are the payoff expert.  I am just doing my duty.
you are playing an angle, college boy.  you are getting something out of this so you do not have to hobnob with the fucking rank and file cops who will hate your guts for snitching.  if they are making you a detective, watch out.  some bureau guys are going to burn in this and you are going to have to work with friends of theirs.
what about you?
I am snitching three old timers who will be fishing in oregon next week.  next to you I am clean.  and smart.
lad, may i have a word with you?
this business, captain?
say goodnight to your friend and join me by those back tables.
does that paper say we have been indicted?  does it say exley's a hero for squealing me and stensland off?
he made his play amd he got what he wanted.  they are making him a detective.
captain, what do you want?
call me dudley.
dudley, what do you want?
lad, i admire your refusal to testify and your loyalty to your partner.  i admire you as a policeman, particularly your adherence to violence as a necessary adjutant to the job. and i am most impressed with your punishment of wife beaters.  do you hate them, wendell?
yeah, i hate them.
and for good reason judging from what i know of your background.
what is going to happen to stensland?  he will give himself cirrhosis over this.  he's one year from his pension.
it would have happened years ago if you had not carried him.  why the loyalty, wendell?
he helped me out once.  that is all.
your partner's through. department scapegoat on the chief's orders.  he is been billed, he will be indicted and he will swing.
him and me both.  fucking exley.
do not underestimate his skills. as a politician he exceeds even myself.  but the department needs smart men like exley and... direct men like yourself
what do you want?
wendell, i want you to come to work for me.
doing what?  mowing your fucking lawn?
they are yours.  take them.
i knew you had juice, but... there is no goddamn bill on me?
four of the defendants recanted their testimony.
how?
i need you for an assignment the chief's given me the go-ahead on. a duty few men are fit for, but you were born for.  you will be working out of homicide.
homicide?  a detective?
will you work for me?
of course... but how?
how what, wendell?
how did you get them to retract?
what do you mean deuce perkins got clipped last night?!
they shot him in his library.
i do not want a floor plan; i want to know who!  who is taking the ticket for this, johnny?
nobody.  at least not yet.
and what about the merchandise deuce was holding for me?
gone.  not a trace.
some ferstunkener is moving in and we do not know who?!  maybe we should ask hedda hopper!
gee.  the great jerk-off book caper of 1953.
vincennes, is there someplace you would rather be?
yeah, cap.  back in narcotics.
oh?  anyplace else?
working whores with squad two.
maybe you should have thought of that before you made bloody christmas page one.
hush-hush.  off the record and on the q.t.
sid, it is vincennes.
jackie, are you back on narco?  i need copy.
no.  but I have got something going with ad vice.
something good?
do not know.  I am chasing picture books.  fuck shots, but the posers do not look like junkies.  it is well done stuff.  i thought you might have heard something.
not a word.
what about fleur-de-lis?  their slogan's 'whatever you desire.'
no.  no, I have heard bupkis.  jack, I will talk to you later.  call me when you get something i can use. smut's from hunger.  for sad sacks who can not get their ashes hauled
you should stay away from a man when his blood is up.
his blood's always up.
do not look so down in the mouth, bud.  you nailed him good.
yeah, sure... i got a couple of hours before i have to be at the victory.  want to grab a beer?
rain check me, partner.  i got something big going on tonight.
what?  that new mystery girl you have been seeing?
no.  I will tell you sometime.  not now.  do not want to jinx it.  but it could take the edge off that jail time i got coming.
what are you talking about?
it is confidential, bud.  like that magazines vincennes scams for. hush-hush.  I will see you tomorrow.  and hey, if it works out, you will get a piece of it.
sir, i took the call.  it is my case.
edmund, you do not want it and you can not have it.
yes, i do, sir.
it is mine.  I will make you my second in command.
we got a total of forty-five spent 12-gauge remington shotgun shells. three men with five-shot-capacity pumps.  all of them reloading twice.
hold on... we need to canvass. see if a purple mercury was seen around here tonight.
why?
we got a call earlier on three negro youths.  firing shotguns in griffith park from a late-model purple mercury coupe.
get on it.
where are we going?
it is a surprise.  you like surprises, do not you, white?
yeah, that is stens.
hell of a way to avoid a prison sentence.
what happened?
someone held up a coffee shop, panicked and killed six people.
it seems like my susan, but...
when was the last time you saw her, mrs. lefferts?
at christmas.  we had fought.  i did not like her boyfriend.  i -- she has a birthmark on her hip.
are you pierce patchett?
i am.  are you soliciting for police charities?  the last time, you people called at my office.
I am a homicide detective.  where were you last night?
i was here, hosting a party.  who was killed and why do you think i can help?
richard stensland.
i do not know him.  mr...
officer white.  how about susan lefferts?  you know her?
you know i do or you would not be here.  how did you find me?
we met outside hollywood liquors on christmas eve.  this is where lynn bracken's booze bills go.
of course...
sue lefferts died at the nite owl. I am investigating.
where is the other guy?  buzz.
he no longer works for me.  find susan's killer, mr. white. I will give you a handsome reward. whatever you desire.
thanks, but no thanks.
against your code?
i do not have one.  lefferts looked beat-up christmas eve, but did not act it.  how come?
do you care about criminal matters peripheral to susan's murder?
no.
then you would not feel obligated to report them?
that is right.
then listen closely, because I will only say this once and if it gets repeated, I will deny it.  i run call girls.  lynn bracken is one of them and so was susan lefferts. i treat my girls very well.  i have grown daughters, myself, and i do not like the thought of women being hurt.  i sense you share this feeling.
why were lefferts' eyes black?
i think she would been hit in the face with a tennis racket.  she is -- was -- a big doubles fan.
you wanna go downtown and discuss this officially?
wait.  our deal still holds?
i needed a rita hayworth to fill out my little studio.
what little studio?
there is gardner, hepburn, grable, turner.  lynn bracken is my veronica lake.  i use girls who look like movie stars.  sometimes i employ a plastic surgeon.
that is why her mother could not i.d. her... jesus fucking christ.
no, mr. white.  pierce morehouse patchett.  now, i sense you are on your best behavior, but that is all I will give you.  if you persist, I will meet you with my attorney. now, would you like miss bracken's address?  i doubt she knows anything, but --
i got her address.
of course... this is personal with you, is not it, mr. white?
how is the left these days?
what is it to you?
i saw you fight kid gavilan.  i like your style.
what do you want, mr. policeman?
you got a brother up in folsom.  i know because i put him there.
till 19-fucking-70.
how did you like to make it 1960?  i know the judge and sergeant exley here is friends with hte d.a.
we are looking for three colored guys who like to pop off shotguns. one of 'em owns a purple merc coupe.
you wanna get me a fuckin' snitch jacket?
you wanna buy your brother ten years...?  you do not have to say anything.  just look at this list and point.  here.
can i get you a drink?
yeah, plain scotch.
i was friendly with sue lefferts, but we were not really friends. you know what i mean?
are you sorry she is dead?
of course i am.  what kind of question is that?
have you ever heard of dick stensland?
no i haven't.  do you know why pierce is humoring you?
you use words like that, you might make me mad.
yes.  but do you know?
yeah i know.  patchett's running whores and judging by his address, probably something bigger on the side.  he does not want any attention.
that is right.  our motives are selfish, so we are cooperating.
why was susan lefferts at the nite owl?
i do not know.  i never heard of the nite owl till today.
did lefferts have a boyfriend?
like i said we were friendly, not friends.
how did she meet patchett?
pierce meets people.  sue came on the bus with dreams of hollywood.  this is how they turned out.  thanks to pierce, we still get to act a little.
tell me about patchett.
he is waiting for you to mention mention.
you want some advice, miss bracken?
it is lynn.
miss bracken, do not ever try to fucking bribe me or threaten me or I will have you and patchett in shit up to your ears.
i remember you from christmas eve.  you have a thing for helping women, do not you, officer white?
maybe I am just fucking curious.
you say 'fuck' a lot.
you fuck for money.
there is blood on your shirt.  is that an integral part of your job?
yeah.
do you enjoy it?
when they deserve it.
did they deserve it today?
I am not sure.
but you did it anyway.
yeah, just like the half dozen guys you screwed today.
actually, it was two.  you are different, officer white.  you are the first man in five years who did not tell me i look like veronica lake inside of a minute.
you look better than veronica lake.  now, pierce patchett.
he takes a cut of our earnings and invests it for us.  he makes us quit the life at thirty.  he does not let us use narcotics and he does not abuse us.  can your policeman's mentality grasp those contradictions?
he had you cut to look like veronica lake?
no.  I am really a brunette, but the rest is me.  and that is all the news that is fit to print.
look.  i want to see you again.
are you asking me for a date or an appointment?
i do not know.
if it is a date i think you would better tell me your first name because i --
forget i asked.  it was a mistake.
l.a.p.d.
shit.  someone beat us here.
damnit...
what?
glasses.
just do not shoot me.
ed, i want confessions.
I will break them, sir.
you think golden boy can handle it, cap?
i think you will be surprised what edmund's capable of.
you are twenty-two, are not you, ray?
say what and so what.
did one of the officers work you over a little?
you look like robinson after that last lamotta fight.  'course lamotta looked a lot worse.  so you are twenty-two, right?
man, why do you keep asking me that?
just getting my facts straight. twenty-two makes it a gas chamber bounce. you should have pulled this caper a couple of years ago.  get life, do a little youth authority jolt, transfer to folsom a big man. orbit on some of that good prison brew, get yourself a sissy --
i never truck with no sissies!
that fucking larry.  i almost believed him.
believed what?
nothing, ray.  that larry, he is a pisser.  you did the casitas youth camp with him, did not you?
man, why are you talkin' about larry?  his business is his business.
ray, you protected ty and larry up in casitas, did not you?
you am not woofin' i did.  stupid down home niggers got no more sense than a fuckin' dog.
i heard you like to shoot dogs.
dogs got no reason to live.
oh?  you feel that way about people, too?
man, what are you saying?
ray, we got the shotguns.
i do not own no shotguns.
why were you throwing clothes in the building incinerator?
say what?
you guys were arrested this morning, but none of you have last night's clothes.  you were seen burning them.  add to that the fact that you hid the car you were cruising around in last night and it does not look good.
i got nothin' more to say till i see a judge.
were you on hop?  you were passed out when you got arrested.  were you hopped up, ray?
ty and larry fuck with that shit, not me.
where do they get their stuff? come on.  give me one to feed the d.a.  just a little one.
do not get sidetracked.  stay with the nite owl.
she may still be alive, whoever she is.
one in six.  where is the girl?
officer white, put down that weapon and --
give me one minute.
you have got it, wendell.
a naked guy with a gun?  you expect anyone to believe that?
get the fuck away from me.
how is it going to look on your report?
it will look like justice.  that is what that fat fuck got.  justice.
you do not know what the word means, you dumb bastard.
there are loose ends out there, dudley.  i --
there always are.  but there are also three men and three guns. matched forensically.  a few loose ends do not matter.
something is wrong.  i feel it inside.  does not that sound crazy?
you are back, boychick.
sid, how are they hanging?
down around my ankles.
the grauman's chinese pot bust. he just got off the honor farm.
what is he doing here, sid?
you tight with the d.a., trash?
sure, he just tried to throw me off the force last christmas as a little joke.
how did you like a little payback? not to mention a donation to the widows and orphans fund.  did you know loew was a swish?
and reynolds?
he is queer too.  metro paid him two grand a week to fake it with ingenues.  on screen and off.  I am getting him to fuck the d.a. for a hundred bucks.  that is twice the fifty you got for wrecking his career.
have we met before?
yeah.
was it a party?
something like that.
oh, i know.  a fleur-de-lis party, right?
fleaur-de-lis.  'whatever you desire.'
dope, liquor, hookers that look like movie stars.  pierce patchett has it all.
yeah.  me and patchett go way back.
pierce is not like regular people. i dig him, but he scares me too.
really?  how?
you know, when i came out to l.a., this is not exactly where i saw myself ending up.
yeah.  me neither.
sid, why would a guy like pierce patchett get involved with running dope and hookers?
where did you hear that?
around.
jackie, all i know is what you know.  the man is very rich.  and he is invested in freeway construction so he is going to get a lot richer.  but that is it. patchett's what i like to call 'twilight.'  he am not queer, he am not red, he can not help me in my quest for prime sinuendo.
I am pretty sure i can get you a part on the show... but tonight? pretend it is an acting job, kid. showbiz.
and no one'll know about this?
it will be our secret.
showbiz.
i wondered when you might ring the bell again, officer white.
it is bud.
jackie!  you got some good scoop for the sidster?
sid, cut the crap.  i --
give me some narco skinny.  i want to put out an all hop-head issue. shvartze jazz musicians and movie stars.  maybe tie it into the rosenbergs.  you like?
shut up!
what is wrong, trash?
what happened with the kid and loew?
you did not get my message?  it got called off.  the kid chickened out at the last minute.
he is dead.  i was just there. somebody slit his throat.
jesus.  jack, that is a story. 'swish actor gets the gay blade.' let me get my camera.
loew did not go with him.  you are sure?
i put reynolds in the cab myself. the night cost me a hundred scoots and i got bupkis.
it does not matter.  all they get is veronica lake.  you got the real lynn margaret bracken...  where did this come from?
when i was ten, my old man threw a bottle at my mother.  i guess i got in the way.
so you saved her.
yeah.  but not for long.
do you like being a cop, bud?
i used to.  what i do now is strong-arm.  sitting duck stuff... no, i do not like it.  if i could work homicide like a real detective...
you found patchett.  you found me. you are smart enough.  be a detective if that is what you want.
that simple, huh?
i got the rap sheets on the black guys, sir.  coates and jones got charges a mile long.  but except for some kid stuff, fontaine's clean.
clean?
more or less.
until he gunned down six people.
bud white, what brings you down to the basement?
i got a few nite owl questions.
i do not know if you read the papers, but that case is closed.
I am tying up loose ends.  padding my report.  you know how it goes.
what do you want to know?
anything off.  anything that did not make sense.
you mean beside the fact that thirty-five out of forty-five rounds were gratuitous?  i can not think of anything.
whose shoe?
susan lefferts.
if she was sitting here, then it is facing the wrong way.  what are these smears in the blood?
it looks like she was flailing, trying to get away.
but she is moving away from the door.  who was sitting at this table?
dick stensland.  had to be dumb panic.  if she knew him she would have been sitting with him... right?
cotton balls.  i found them just inside the meat locker door.
ear plugs.
exactly.  at least one of those animals had the brains to protect his ears.
it does not exactly play like dumb panic.
what do you mean?
it is like they knew they were going to kill everyone before they went in...
yeah, so...
mrs. lefferts, I am officer white with the l.a.p.d.  I would like to ask a couple of questions.
let my daughter rest in peace.
five minutes.  that is all.
tell me about the boyfriend she had.  the one you mentioned at the morgue.
first i want to go on record as saying that my susie was a virgin when she died.
ma'am, I am sure she was.
susie, i told you i did not approve of that boyfriend.  he was too old for you.  you let him come into this house and be fresh to me.  i went out one day and old mrs. jensen next door saw susan's boyfriend and another man and thought she heard a ruckus.
what was that boyfriend's name?
we were never properly introduced. susan and i were fighting that day.  she called him by a nickname.  muns or lunts or something.
stens?  was it stens?
maybe.  i do not know.
look at a picture for me.
that is him.  that is him.
you said a neighbor heard a ruckus.  was it outside, inside?
what is through here?
no!  please leave!
do not mind the smell.  i think a rat died behind the wall... my susie was a good girl!
easy.  tell me about the ruckus.
i came home that night and there was blood on the floor.  susan said stams -- stens had cut himself.  they were acting nervous.  and that stens kept going under the house.
was it... a rat?
yeah.  a great big one.
the nite owl.  anything bothering you about the case?
yeah.  the fact that you guys will not let it get filed away.
what are you talking about?
bud white grilled me on it this morning.  you know, he is not as dumb as i thought.
let my susie rest in peace!
mrs. lefferts, i just want to ask a few questions.
that other policeman already checked under the house and found not a thing amiss.
officer white?
a sweet man.
under the house.
all he found were rodents.  no signs of foul play.  so there.
my daughter was a virgin!
i do not doubt it -- oh, god.
yeah.  sergeant jack vincennes requesting.  i need the home address on a pierce patchett.
please hold, sergeant...
i need to speak to you.
give me a minute, will ya?
damnit... what?
i want you to follow bud white.
even I am not that crazy.
it is not a request.  i need to know what white knows.  follow him or I will have you pulled off 'badge of honor.'  permanently.
yesterday that might have meant something.  pull me off.  you would be doing me a big favor.
yesterday yes, today no.  what happened last night?
transfer me, suspend me.  just leave me alone.
you make a mistake?
yeah.  my whole life.
listen, i think i made a mistake, too.
i am not a priest, lieutenant.  i can not hear your confession.
do you make the three negroes for the nite owl killings?
what?
it is a simple question.
you should be the last person who wants to dig any deeper into the nite owl, lieutenant.
is there more to that, or do i have to guess?
rollo was a purse snatcher.  my father ran into him off duty.  he shot my father six times and got away clean.  no one even knew who he was.  i made the name up to give him some personality.
so what is the point?
rollo's the reason i became a cop. i wanted to catch the guys who thought they could get away with it.  it was supposed to be about truth and justice and rollo.  but somewhere along the way i forgot all that... how about you, jack? why did you become a cop?
I am trying to figure what angle you are playing this time, but i sure as hell can not see one.
I have given up angles for awhile. i just want to solve this thing.
the nite owl was solved, lieutenant.
i want to do it right.
okay, college boy, I will help you. but i want half the collar.
a third.  i do not think we can make a case without bud white.
wendell white, how is tricks, paesano?
i am not your paesano, you wop cocksucker.
what do you want, officer?
you remember an ex-cop named buzz meeks?  he works for a guy named patchett.
should i?
his file listed you as a known associate.  now spill.
oh, yeah.  that was a long time ago.  before your day.  the last few years he is been muscle for hire.  but i heard he is disappeared.
more.
more's going to cost you.
how 'bout i give you your balls back?
before meeks disappeared he was popping off about trying to move eighteen pounds of heroin.
bullshit.  where would a two-bit ex-cop get 18 pounds of heroin?
deuce perkins.  mickey c's narcotics lieutenant.  the night he got clipped, eighteen pounds of mickey's heroin went missing.
meeks is probably in rio or someplace like that by now.
he is under a tract house in san berdoo.  and he do not smell too good.  what happened to the heroin, johnny?
i do not know.  i swear it!
what is that for?
bud white.  he sees us and we are dead.
jesus... maybe white's not so dumb after all.
rita hayworth at the morgue and now veronica lake with white. what the hell's going on?
movie star hookers.  whatever you desire... it is fleur-fr-lis again.
what is fleur-de-lis?
high line whores.  with plastic surgery to look like movie stars. and who knows what else?  it is run by this guy pierce patchett.  you want to talk to him?
yeah.  but first i want to brace stompanato.
she is lana turner.
what?
she is lana turner.
I will tell you what i told officer white when he asked me about susan's death.
bud white's been here?
for the last time.  i may suborn women into illicit activities, but they are handsomely compensated, i treat them well and make sure the men they deal with show them every due respect.
is the veronica lake look-alike one of your whores?
a vulgar term, but yes.
what is her name?
lynn bracken.
why is she seeing bud white?
why do men and women usually see each other?
anything else you want to add before i talk to her?
no.
not good enough.
then try talking to my lawyer. good evening, gentlemen.
what are you going to do?
I am going to lynn bracken's.  I will meet you at the dining car.
great.  you get the girl, i get the coroner.
miss bracken, I am lieutenant exley.
i know who you are.  you are the policeman bud told me about.
really?  what did white say?
he said you were smart.  he also said you were competing with your dead father.  how did he put it? trying to measure up to a ghost.
let's concentrate on my smarts. pierce patchett made you, did not he?  he taught you how to dress and talk and think and i am very impressed with the results.  but i need some answers and if i do not get them, I am going to take you and patchett down.
he can take care of himself and I am not afraid of you.  and you forgot one thing, lieutenant. pierce also taught me how to fuck... can i get you a drink?
I am curious about you.
why?
it galls you that i know so much about you.  you do not have information to compete.
do not underestimate me, miss bracken.
the way you have underestimated bud white?
how was i?
oh, the best i ever had. absolutely the best.
you sound like you mean it.
the silver screen's loss is your gain.
how about white?
you want to know what bud's like in bed?
i want to know why you see him. is it a patchett payoff?
i see bud because i want to.  i see bud because he can not hide the warmth he has inside him.
I will take your word for it.
i see bud because he makes me feel like lynn bracken and not some veronica lake look-alike who fucks for money.  i see him because he does not know how to disguise who he is.  there is more if you want to hear it.
does all that make it harder for you to hate him or easier?
i do not hate white.  i really don't.  it is just, in my business, it is the wild cars you have to watch out for.
you do not like that you do not know how to play him.  he does not follow the same rules of politics you do.  that makes him dangerous.
you cut to the heart of things, do not you?  what about lynn bracken?  she going to be a hooker all her life?
i came out here with a dream. that is gone, but i settled for reality.
some reality.
no.  this is the means to the reality.  but I am not going to tell you what it is.
why not?
because you will use it against me. will not you?
you are tougher than bud thinks you are.
you are the first person to ever call me tough.
like recognizes like.  I am pretty tough, myself.
you, me and white, huh?
actually, bud's only tough on the outside.
john vincennes.  it is three a.m., lad.
two minutes, dudley.  it is important.
lucky for you that my wife and four fair daughters are at the beach in santa barbara.
you remember buzz meeks, dudley?
a disgrace as a policeman. straight d fitness reports from every c.o. he ever served under. what about him?
twelve years ago he worked a vice roust with dick stensland.  they arrested a pierce patchett on an extortion scam.  guy ran hookers. he would have them photographed with their johns, then double-dip for some blackmail.  charges got dropped.  insufficient evidence. you were supervising officer on the case and i was wondering if you remember anything about it.
what is this all about, lad?
part of it has to do with a murder.  I have been working with ed exley on it.
you are narco, lad, not homicide. and since when do you work with edmund?
it is a private investigation.  i fucked something up and i want to make amends.
do not start trying to do the right thing, john.  you have not had enough practice.
have you discussed this with anyone else, john?
no.
not even with exley?
no... where did the tip come from?
anonymous.  probably nothing.
you are perplexing to me these days, wendell.  you are not your old, cruel self anymore.  i need proof that the extracurricular work i had planned for you remains within your grasp.
what work?
I have long been involved in containing hard crime in such a way that myself and a few colleagues might someday enjoy a profit dispensation.  that day will soon be here and you will share handsomely.  grand means will be in our hands, wendell.
imagine crime limited to the criminal element who perpetrate it. imagine the means to keep the nigger filth sedated.  but do not stop there.  extrapolate.  imagine the police in control.  it is big, lad.
you lost me, dudley.  i do not know what you are talking about.
you have your extracurricular secrets, i have mine.  we will hold a clarification session soon.  for now, i need your fearsome old habits at the victory motel. we are going to brace a man who may know who killed jack vincennes. can i count on you?
sure, boss.  sure you can.
we got a dead ex-cop and a girl who looks like rita hayworth at the nite owl.  another dead ex-cop under the house of rita's mother. it is not a good week for ex-cops.
i got vincennes in the next room. it is not a good week for cops in general.
this is mr. hudgeons, wendell.
I am happy to cooperate.  you do not need to tie me down.
it is for your own safety.  now what can you tell us about sergeant john vincennes?
trashcan jack.  the big v.  i can tell you he is on the night train to the big adios.
take it easy!  i did not have anything to do with him getting killed if that is what you mean.
but you were business associates?
what does that have to do --
okay so we worked together.  it was an information exchange.  i got him first class collars and he got me good stories.  we were friends for chrissakes!
alright.  we will drop that line for now.  next topic.  please comment on pierce patchett.
okay.  okay.  everyone knows patchett's worth a boat-load of greenbacks.  from aviation, freeway construction.  but the man has hobbies, too.  he bankrolls b movies under the table and runs movie star look-alike hookers. and try this on:  he is rumored to be a periodic heroin sniffer.  all in all a powerful behind-the- scenes strange-o.
and?
and what?
reciprocity, mr. hudgeons, is the key to all relationships.
he runs call girls.  primo tail. fixed up like movie stars.
and?
in my car.  blackmail shit.  the trunk under the carpet.  patchett got me to photograph a cop fucking this gorgeous cunt lynn, looks just like veronicaaa --
anything?
nothing.
so on active duty, meeks did not make an arrest from 1938 to '43.
someone must have pulled the records.
where are the police academy files?
i do not have time.  i have --
just show me where they are!
did you talk to exley?
come in out of the rain.  in the morning we will have both our stories for breakfast.
i want to know about exley.
he is the opposite of you.  he is more like me.  cold, calculating.
how did you get to know so much about him?
come in out of the rain, bud.
you gonna tell me what happened with you and exley?
we talked.
so tell me about it.
in the morning.
no.  now.  you fucked him.
why?
lynn.
she told you?
i knew stensland and meeks knew each other.  meeks was with sue lefferts on christmas eve.  the night i met lynn.  lefferts' mother i.d.ed stensland as lefferts' boyfriend, but stens pretended he did not know either one of them.
stensland and meeks.  what were they up to?
johnny stompanato told me when meeks disappeared, he was trying to move the 18 pounds of heroin that went missing when deuce perkins was shot.
stensland and buzz meeks.  two-man triggers knocking off mickey cohen lieutenants.  when they killed deuce perkins, they got heroin as a bonus.
then something goes wrong.  meeks gets killed.  maybe stens got greedy, killed meeks and left him under his girlfriend's house.  the night he died, stens was all mysterious.  said he had something big going down.
the nite owl!  stensland was going there to sell the heroin.
somebody got wind of it, killed them all.
it was not the negroes.  the griffith park report was a phony. and, who says the purple merc was spotted outside the nite owl?
dudley.
the first guys to the car when jack and i got there were bruening and carlisle.
dudley's guys.
they did not find the shotguns. they planted them.
it all keeps coming back to dudley.
it is dudley for the nite owl.
pierce patchett figures in, too. that is the angle jack was working. dudley must work for patchett.
let's just kill them.
what?
for jack, for stensland, for anybody else who got in the way. I have been trying to be smart.  a detective.  but killing those two fuckers, that would be justice.
stay smart, bud.  we build a case. we play by the rules.
there are no rules!  why the fuck are you doing this?  the nite owl made you.  you want to tear all that down.
with a wrecking ball.  you want to help me swing it?
let's go see pierce patchett.  run a good-cop-bad-cop.
which one are you and which one am i?
you expecting problems?
patchett uses a lot of ex-cop muscle.
it is a suicide note.  says he killed jack because jack had figured out a pornography scam patchett was running.
he had help getting up there.  two of his fingers are broken.
we had one thing figured wrong.  i do not think dudley workd for patchett.
at least not anymore.
patchett's dead.  he sent you after me.  I would say dudley's tying up his loose ends.
lynn.
ellis loew.
what about him?
jack thought he was up to his neck in all this.
it is okay.  these are police.  what do you want?
i want d.a. bureau men to tail dudley smith twenty-four hours a day; i want you to get a judge to authorize a wire tap on his home phone; i want authorization to check his bank records and i want it all in an hour.
on what evidence?
none.  call it a hunch.
absolutely not.  dudley smith is a highly decorated member of this city's police department and i will not smear his name without --
without what, his smearing yours first?  what is he got on you, loew?  pictures of you and an out of work actor with your pants down?
do you have any proof?
the proof had his throat slit.  so far you are not denying it.
I am not going to dignify youwith answers.  if you will excuse me, I have got a jack vincennes press conference to prepare for.
bud...
if i let you go, there'll be ten more lawyers to take your place tomorrow.  they just will not come on the bus, that is all.
okay!  you are right!  dudley's got photos of me and reynolds.
what is dudley's scheme?
they never made a match on the shotgun serial numbers.  what if breuning and carlisle took them from the evidence room?  couple of cold pieces that had been hanging around a year or two.
we should check the records, and, we should talk to lynn.
if i knew you were coming I would have baked a cake.
forget everything else for a second, lynn.  is there anything you can give me on dudley smith?
a police captain.  i think he is behind all of this.
i work for patchett.  i had a feeling that there was someone else, but i never knew who.
okay.  look, if it helps, bud hates himself for what he did.
i know how he feels.
you wanted to meet here?
me?  you called it.  i got a message that...
you figured this was a set-up? and you showed up anyway?
a lot of bad stuff happened here. it is as good a place as any for it to end.
you know, all i ever wanted was to measure up to my father.
i spent years trying not to live down to mine.
I am loathe to kill my brother officers, edmund.
tell that to jack vincennes.  to stensland.
jack was a shame, but dick stensland had the audacity to try to sell me my own heroin.  through his whore girl friend.  i sent him to make the buy.  the rest is history.
why?
a vacuum, edmund.  that is what we have in los angeles.  sending mickey cohen up created it.  my containment work maintained it. certain photographs guarantee it. organized crime has been held back, but there is still a demand for the services it provides.
and now you will provide them.
absolutely.  prostitution and gambling are victimless crimes. the heroin we will run down to the coloreds.  anesthetize them.  as long as it is not a middle class problem, no one will care.  it is still a crime free city... for respectable people.
no.
why not, lad?  absolute justice?
something like that.
really?  would you be willing to rig crime scene evidence to support a prosecuting attorney's working hypothesis?
where will you go?
bisbee, arizona.  the air's good for pensioners and i know where everything is.
when?
right now, before i back down.
where is he?
do you think i ever could have been in the running?
some men get the world.  others get ex-hookers and a trip to arizona.
