that we did. john. but the horicane  is near trapped out.
tradin' your skins in castleton?
so what is it, jack? what brings you up here?
a french & indian army out of fort carillon's heading south to war against the english. I am here to raise this county's militia to aid the british defense.
folks here goin' to join in that fight?
we will see in the morning...
it should be enough to remind you france is the enemy.
your enemy...
what did you say?
i said... france is your enemy. not ours.
really? do you want them to overrun all new york colony?
first place, you started it with the french over fur-trapping claims to the head waters of the ohio.  now you are sayin' these people have a fight on their hands...
will you men help us stop the french?
... and while they are cooped up in your fort, what if the french send war parties to raid their homes?
you do what you want with your own scalp.  do not be tellin' us what to do with ours.
you, sir! you call yourself a loyal subject?
...no...do not call myself much of a subject at all.
i did not experience anything so surprising from bristol to albany as what i witnessed here today.
and what is that?
the crown "negotiating" the terms of service?
i know.  one has to give americans "reasons" and make agreements to get them to do anything at all.  tiring, is not it?  but that is the way of it here.
i thought british policy is 'make the world... england', sir.
you will take command of the 62nd regiment of foot. at fort william henry under colonel munro. i will march the 33rd to fort edward.
sir!... might i inquire if general webb has heard from colonel munro's daughters? i was to rendezvous with them in albany and escort them to the fort.
yes. you may.  you there. what does munro call you?  the "scotsman" has sent one of his indian allies to guide you.
the scotsman's daughters are at the poltroon's house. a company of the 33rd will accompany you and magua will show you the way.
by your leave, sir.
I am embarrassed to be so indecisive... after so long apart and after you have traveled so far...
and by sea!
you still have an aversion to the water?
aversion?  no... "hatred"... "loathing"...
dear duncan, my affection is as towards a closest friend. alice and i depend on you and respect you immensely... i wish they did, but my feelings do not go beyond that. do you see?
is not respect and friendship, a reasonable basis for a man and woman to be joined? and all else may grow in time...?
some say that is the way of it.
"some"?
cousin eugenie, my father, but...
cora, in my heart, i know once we are joined, we will be the happiest couple in england. let those whom you trust, your father, help settle what is best for you. in view of your indecision, why not rely on their advice and judgment as well as mine?
will you consider that?
yes. yes, i will.
my god, you have grown up.
we leave in the morning?!
yes, miss.
i will not sleep tonight. what an adventure!  i absolutely cannot wait to return to portman square, having laid eyes upon the full-blooded, red men in the wild!
my god, alice.
it can be dangerous...
are you alright?
can we rest soon?
absolutely.
we must... stop... soon. women are... tired.  you... understand?
i understand. this is not good place to stop.  two leagues from here. no water 'til then.  that where we stop. better place.
no. stop in the glade just ahead! when the ladies are rested, we will proceed. do you understand?
"magua understand paleface is a dog to his women.  when his women want to eat, he lay aside his tomahawk to feed their laziness."
excuse me. what did you say?
magua say: "yes. good idea."
your wounded should try walkin' back to albany.  they will never make a passage north.
we were headed...
...fort william henry.
how far is it, scout?
day and a half  where did you get... the guide?
colonel munro sent him. he was one of our mohawk allies.
he is huron and nothing else.  why would he want to murder the girl?
what?!
dark haired...
miss cora munro. he never set eyes on her before today.
no blood vengeance? no re-proach or insult?
of course not!  and how is it you were nearby?
came across the war party, tracked 'em.
then you are assigned to fort william henry?
no.
fort edward, then?
no. headin' west. to can-tuck-ee.
i thought all our colonial scouts were in the militia?
i am not your "scout". and i am in no damn militia.
then you are one of those who would allow england to fight alone while she protects you from france?
england does not protect me and does not war against france on our account. she uses us to war against france on her own account...  of greed for land and furs.
i owe you gratitude or I would call you out!
do not let gratitude get in the way...
who were these people?
ottawa!
excuse me...
though they are strangers, they are at least entitled to a christian burial!
let us go, miss.
i will not. i have seen the face of war before, mr. poe, but never war made on women and children. and almost as cruel is your indifference.
why did not you bury those people?
anyone lookin' to pick up our trail, would see it as a sign of our passing...
you knew them.
you were acting for our benefit. and i apologize. i misunderstood you.
well that is to be expected. my father...
your "father"?
chingachgook. he warned me about people like you.
he did?
yes. he said... "do not try to make them understand you."
what?!
yes. and "do not try to understand them.  that is because they are a breed apart and they make no sense..."
the ottawa are gone.
why did they turn back?
"we're a breed apart and we make no sense"...?
in your particular case, miss, i would make some allowance...
thank you so much.
they buried my ma & pa and my sisters. and chingachgook - who found me with two french trappers - raised me up as his own.
I am sorry.
i do not remember them. i was one or two.
how did you learn english?
my father sent uncas & i to reverend wheelock's school when i was ten. so we would know both worlds... though we were told only bother learning readin' & arithmetic from yours.
and what were the consequentialities of european culture you did not bother with?
the bible. monarchy. many wrong ideas about the government of men. my father's people already know each man is his own nation. and only he can have dominion over himself. not kings. no man is better than any other man.
in london those radical ideas could land you in newgate prison.  why were those people living in this defenseless place...?
'cos frontier land's the only land affordable to poor people. so after seven years indentured service in virginia, they headed out here where they are beholden to none and not livin' by another's leave...  their name was cameron. john & alexandria.
you are right, mr. poe. we do not understand what is happening here. and it is not as i imagined it would be, thinking of it in boston and london...
sorry to disappoint you...
on the contrary. it is more deeply stirring...  to my blood...  ...than any imagining could possibly have been...
much further?
top of this ridge. fort and lake george are downhill of it.
the men of the regiment will fetch water from the lake, build fires and provide every comfort you desire, alice...
duncan, you are absolutely gallant. if cora does not marry you, i shall.
told you to stay away from this hell hole!  why did you disobey me?
when? how?
my letter...
there was none!
what?
there was no letter.
i sent three men to webb!
one called magua arrived.
he delivered no such message.
does webb not even know we are besieged?
sir. webb has no idea. and he certainly does not know to send reinforcements!
what happened to you?
ambush... on the george road. this magua led us into it.  ...eighteen killed. it is these men who saved us. they guided us here...
thank you. how can i reward you?
help ourselves to a few horns from your powder stores.
what else?
what a place for them...
might i enquire after the situation, sir, given that I have seen of the french engineering from the ridge above?
logistics are his guns are bigger than mine and he has more of them. they keep our heads down while his sappers make thirty yards of trench a day. his thirteen inch mortars have a two hundred yard range, so when they are close enough, they will move them in, lob explosive rounds over our walls and pound us to dust. they look to be three hundred yards out.  bloody murderers.  you have three days.
a man, here, can make a run straight through to webb.
...not enough time to get to albany and back with reinforcements...
webb's not in albany. he marched the 33rd to fort edward two days ago.
webb's at edward?
yes, sir.
only twelve miles away! he could be here day after tomorrow.  find your man, sir! captain beams will give you the message.
yes, mr. poe? so?
it was a war party. it means they are on the attack up and down the frontier.
many men here, their homes are in the path.
that is all, sir.
things were done. nobody was spared...
terrible feature of war in the americas.  best to keep your sight fixed on our duty.
why do hate the grey hair, magua?
when the grey hair is dead, magua will eat his heart. before he dies magua will put his children under the knife so the grey hair will see his seed is wiped out forever.
mr poe?
miss.  may i?
what are you looking at, mr. poe?
why, i am looking at you, miss.
sergeant! form three ranks!
sir!  upon the center, wheel to the left- about!  march!  rear ranks, proper distance!  front ranks, take your distance! march!  halt!  make ready!
first rank! second rank! present arms!
fire!!!
advance, sergeant major!
sir!!!  third rank! twelve paces! forward march!
shoulder arms!  present!
fire!!!
sergeant major!
sir!
thank you, sergeant major. thank the men.
atten-hut!
cora, i adore you and, when we come together, we will be the happiest couple in england...  i am certain of that. more than ever before.  i believe you must trust the judgment of others who hold your welfare so close to their hearts...
duncan...  duncan, i promised you an answer. you have complimented me with your persistence and patience... but the decision I have come to is I would rather make the gravest of mistakes than surrender my own judgment.
i see...
i am sorry, duncan...
i must receive proof more conclusive than mr. poe's opinion before i weaken our defenses by allowing militia to withdraw.
chingachgook's of the same opinion. taken together, that is gospel. your fort will stand or fall depending on webb and reinforcements, not these colonials' presence.
i judge military matters, captain winthrop, not you.
that judgment is not more important than their right under agreement with webb to defend their farms & families... major heyward was at john cameron's. he saw what it was.
what did you see, major?
beyond the periphery of men, staring at him.
munro is expecting him to be the good soldier in defense of british military interests.
I will have none of that!  montcalm is a soldier and a gentleman. not a butcher.
easy for you to suppose. while it is their women and children, not yours, alone in their farms!
you forget yourself!
we are not forgettin' webb's promise!
british promises are honored. and the militia will not be released. because i need more definite proof than this man's word!
nathaniel's word been good on the frontier a long time before you got here!
this interview's over! the militia stays!
does the rule of english law no longer govern?  has it been replaced by absolutism?
and if english law cannot be trusted, maybe these people would do better makin' a peace with the french!
that is sedition! treason!
that is the truth!
i ought to have you whipped from this fort!
major!  some day i think you and i are gonna have a serious disagreement.
i believe if they set aside their law as and when they wish, their law no longer has rightful authority over us. all they have over us is tyranny, then. and I will stay here no longer.  no force on earth will keep me here... anyone caught leavin' the fort could be shot. so each man make your own decision... those who are goin', be back here in an hour.
out the northern sally-port. strike for the east side of the swamp until you clear the french picket line. head north over the ridge, then come about southeast and fork left in little meadow and you are free of the outpost and skirmishers...
I will cover them from the top of the casement.
you are not coming with us?
got a reason to stay.
that reason wear a blue dress and work in the surgery?
it does and it is a better lookin' reason than you, jack winthrop.  push hard, 'cos you got to clear the french outpost by dawn.  good luck, jack.
the man encouraged the colonials to desert in this very room, in my presence. he is guilty of sedition and must be tried and hanged like any other criminal, regardless of what he did for my children.
he knew the consequences. and he stayed.  are those the actions of a criminal?  ...duncan, do something.
he knew the penalty for breaking regulations.  he ought to pay without sending you to beg.
you know he would not send me...! you misrepresented what you saw and caused this.  i, too, was at that farm. it was as he said...
not with enough certainty to outweigh british interests in this fort.
and who empowered these provincials to pass judgment upon england's policies in her own colonies? to come and go without so much as a "by your leave."
they do not live their lives "by your leave."  ...they hack it out of the wilderness with their own two hands, burying their dead and their children along the way.
you are defending him because you have become infatuated with him.
but the man is guilty of sedition and subject to military justice and beyond pardon.
"justice"?  if that is "justice"..., then the sooner french guns blow the english army out of america, the better it will be for these people.
you do not know what you are saying!
yes i do! i know exactly what i am saying.  and if it is sedition, then i am guilty of sedition, too!
they are going to hang you.  why did not you leave when you had the chance?
because what i am interested in is right here...
what would you have me do?
webb's reinforcements will arrive or not.  if they do not arrive, the fort will fall. if that happens, stay close to your father.  the french will protect the officer class among the english.
no. i will find you.
do not.  promise me.
what is it?
i do not know. whatever happens you stay with your father. you stay among the officers.
colonel munro, i have known you as a gallant antagonist. i am happy to make your acquaintance as a friend.
and i to make yours, monsieur le marquis.
please accept my compliments for the strong and skillful defense of your fortress. under the command of a lesser man it would have fallen long ago given the superior numbers and material... mere chance has allowed me to array against you...
monsieur le marquis, i am a soldier, not a diplomat. you called this parlay for a reason.
you have already done everything which is necessary for the honor of your prince. i will forever bear testimony that your resistance has been gallant and was continued as long as there was hope. but now, i beg you to listen to the admonitions of humanity. i beg you to consider my terms for your surrender.
however i may apprise such testimony from monsieur montcalm, fort william henry is strong and stands.
honor that is freely accorded to courage, may be refused obstinacy... these hills afford to us every opportunity to reconnoiter your works and i am possibly as well acquainted with your weak condition as you are yourselves.  is webb really en route and montcalm hopes to take the fort by duplicity before british reinforcements arrive?
perhaps the general's glasses can reach to the hudson and he knows the size and imminence of the army of webb...?
this is the signature of webb.  and i know the temper of our men. rather than spend the war in a french prison hulk in hudson bay, they would fight to the end.
you have heard your answer, monsieur le marquis.
such as...?
my master requires the fort be destroyed.  but, for you and your comrades, there is no privilege that will be denied. none of your men will see the inside of a prison barge. they are free to go so long as they return to england and fight no more on this continent, and the civilian militia return to their farms.
their arms?
they may leave the fortress fully armed, but with no ammunition... other than that, ask what you wish.
the honors of war?
granted.
my colors?
carry them to england to your king with pride.
allow me to consult with my officers.
i have lived to see two things i never expected.  an englishman afraid to support a friend. and a frenchman too honest to profit by that advantage.
general webb can burn in hell. we will go back and dig our graves behind the ramparts! our mission is to fight.
death and honor are sometimes thought to be the same. today i have learned that they are not.
sir!
the decision is final.
i am deeply touched by such unusual and unexpected generosity... the fort is yours under the condition that we be given until dawn to bury our dead, prepare our men and women for their march and turn our wounded over to your surgeon.
granted, monsieur.
qui vive?
france.
le mot d'ordre?
la victoire.
c'est bien, vous vous promenez bien matin, monsieur!
il est necessaire d'etre vigilant, mon enfant.
is the hatchet buried between the english and my french father?
yes.
not a warrior has a scalp and the white men become friends.
my master owns these lands and your father has been ordered to drive off the english squatters. they have consented to go. so now he calls them enemies no longer.
magua took the hatchet to color it with blood.  it is still bright. only when it is red, then it will be buried.
but so many suns have set since le renard struck the war post. is he not tired?
where is that sun?! it has gone behind the hill.  it is dark and cold. it has set on his people, they are fooled and kill all the animals and sell all of their lands to enrich the european masters who are always greedy for more than they need.  and le subtil is the son of his tribe. there have been many clouds and many mountains. but now he has come to lead his nation.
that le renard has the power to lead his people into the light, i know well.
that is where a lead bullet has torn you.
and this?
my son has been sadly injured. who did this?
magua slept hard in the english wigwams.  and the sticks left their mark...  magua's village and lodges were burnt. magua's children were killed by the english.  magua was taken as a slave by the mohawks who fought for the grey hair. magua's wife believed he was dead and became the wife of another. the grey hair was the father of all this.  in time magua became blood-brother to mohawk to become free. in his heart he always was huron.  and his heart will be whole again on the day when the grey hair and all his seed are dead!
my son magua's pain is my pain.
does the chief of the canadas believe the english will keep the terms?
munro would. but general webb will not send their soldiers across the salt lake.  having let them go, i fear i will only fight the same men again when i move south.  and yet, i cannot break the terms of the capitulation and sully the lilies of france...
many things my french father cannot do, magua can.
men are to stay in file, sergeant major!
yes sir!
right - about face! march! first rank present!
fire!
how long?
only chance we got is...  ... to get more distance on 'em and go to ground!
head for... for the white water.
do you hear me, sir!  if you ever fall... into british hands...  what white water?
where do we go from here?
we don't.
i do not understand!
this is it, as far as we can go... if we are lucky, they will be figurin' we can not have come this way and must have beached our canoes and headed cross land. if we are very lucky, they will figure we went over the falls.
then what?
then we take the south rim down the mountain and it is 12 miles cross country to fort edward.
and if we are unlucky?
you will have to forego the pleasure of hangin' me.
any powder?
: only one or two loads.
are we safe?
maybe...
our father? did you see my father?
yes. go ahead.
what the bloody hell plan is this?
in this there is a chance. if i live, i can try to free you. if we do not go, there is no powder, there is too many of them.  though my heart would keep me here, in that there is no chance. none. i can do nothing. do you understand?
yes. i want you to go.
listen. submit. you hear me?  you are strong. you stay alive. i will find you...  no matter how far, how long it takes...
...never doubt what you are doing.
if magua give women to yengeese soldiers... will receive many gifts.
gifts?
three, four oxen... much wampum.
wampum?
yes.
does yengeese major have property across salt sea?
yes.
yengeese major give all property to magua.  magua give yengeese major much wampum, many gifts, maybe three, four oxen.
gold could be arranged.
for munro children?
yes.
how much gold has the master of the yengeese?
the king? the king has mountains of gold!
what is enough?
heart. give magua new heart.
let the children of the dead colonel munro go free and take the fire out of the english anger over the murder of their helpless ones.
our father, montcalm, is greater than the yengeese in the arts of war. the huron do not fear english anger.
wise one, the french fathers made peace and swore to their honor not to break the friendship. magua broke it. it is false that the french would not be friends, still, to the huron.
so the huron are the servants of the french?  to do what the french are shamed to do?
no.  huron serve no one. the french father believes he fooled magua because he is so proud of his cleverness, he is blind. but it is the huron path that magua walks down, not the french one... now, les francais, also, fear huron. that is good. when the huron is strong from their fear, we will make the terms of trade with les francais. and we will trade as the white man trades. take land from the abnakes; fur from the osage, sauk & fox. and make the huron great. over other tribes. no less than the whites, as strong as the whites.
magua would use the ways of les francais and the yengeese...
the red man put down the bow, picked up the fire stick and became the best warrior in the forest. yes. it is the only way.
would the huron make his algonquin brothers foolish with brandy and steal his lands to sell them for gold to the white man?  would the huron have greed for more land than a man can use? like francais black robes do?  would huron kill tribes with disease? would the huron fool seneca into taking all the animals in the forest for beads & brandy? but sell the fur to the white man for gold?...  those are the ways of yengeese and les francais masters. are they the ways of huron men who hunt & work the land? or of dogs?  ...magua's heart is twisted. he would make himself into what twisted him. a dog, become master of dogs. but are hurons dogs?  ...magua's way is false. it is like the white sickness. magua's way will bring only sadness and shame. is there another way? i do not know.  i am nathaniel of the yengeese; hawkeye, adopted son of chingachgook, of the mohican people... let the children of the dead munro go free... i speak the truth.
... compliments, mr. poe.  take her and get out.
what are they doing to duncan? duncan!
and my compliments to you...
alice?
will you go back to england?
i have nothing to go back for.
where will we go?
winter with the delaware, my father's cousins. and in the spring, cross the ohio and look for land to settle with my father in a new place called can-tuck-ee.
