can someone please tell rick that he is not the only sigma chi with a big penis?
you guys are so sweet!
but I am not positive it is going to happen tonight --
helloo... he just had lunch with his grandmother. you know he got "the rock".
why else would she have flown in from newport? it is not like she would fed ex a six carat diamond.
you think?
too demure?
i think you should go with red. it is the color of confidence.
well, i do not want to look like i know what is coming...
what if -- you know -- it is not the night?
why else would he be taking you to the ivy? you have been dating for a year -- it is not like he is trying to impress you.
you are beautiful.
so are you!
I am fully amenable to that discussion.
i mean, we are having a lot of fun now -- but things are going to be different when I am at harvard. law school is a completely different world. i need to be serious.
of course.
my family expects a lot from me. and i expect a lot from me. i plan on running for office some day.
and i fully support that.
but the thing is, if I am going to be a senator by the time I am thirty -- i can not keep dicking around.
i completely agree.
that is why i think it is time for us to --
I am sorry, elle, i just --
you are breaking up with me?!  i thought you were proposing.
proposing?! elle, if I am going to be a politician, i need to marry a jackie, not a -- marilyn.
you are breaking up with me because I am too -- blonde?
that is not entirely --
then what? my boobs are too big?
elle -- no -- your boobs are fine --
c'mon. let me take you home.
no.
elle -- it is twenty miles back to campus.
elle, believe me, i never expected to be doing this, but i think it is the right thing to do.
how can it be the right thing if we are not together?
i have to think about my future. and what people expect from me.
so you are breaking up with me because you are afraid your family will not like me?  everybody likes me!
east coast people are different.
just because I am not a vanderbilt, all of a sudden I am white trash? i grew up in bel air, warner! across the street from aaron spelling! i think most people would agree that is way better than a vanderbilt --
i told you, elle. i need someone -- serious.
I am seriously in love with you -- is not that enough?
elle?
where is the rock?
is it a kappa?
it is not a theta --
no -- it is just -- not me.
I am canceling the mixer. we will blacklist sigma chi.
thank you, serena, but i do not think it will do any good.
what happened?
i do not know! everything was normal at first and then he said he needed someone more --  serious!
serious?! who the hell does he think he is? you are the most popular month on the usc calendar!
oh, he is so over on this campus.
i just do not understand what went wrong --
how could this happen?
i do not know! i do not know anything any more!  i just need to be by myself.
are you sure?
we still love you. sisters forever!
thank you. i love you, too.
oh, god. what if josh does not think I am serious enough?
helloo... you let him have anal sex with you.  helloo... you let him videotape you diddling yourself.
you are right. phew!
honey, stop! you have to leave this room -- it is been a week.
so?
what is the thing that always makes us feel better, no matter what?
cunnilingus?
harvard law school?
that is right.
but it is a top three school --
i have a 4.0.
yes, but your major is fashion merchandising. harvard will not be impressed that you aced "history of lycra". what are your backups?
i do not need backups. harvard is the school I am going to.
well, then. you will need excellent recommendations from your professors, a heck of an admissions essay and at least a one-seventy-five on your lsats.
i once had to judge a theta chi tighty- whitey contest. trust me -- i can handle anything.
girls -- I am going to harvard!
what, like on va-kay?
let's all go! road trip!
wait -- cecil has a condo in tahoe. let's go there!
why?!
i mean, i know you are upset and all, but can not you just take a sedative?
once warner sees me as a serious law student, he will want me back. it is a completely brilliant plan!
but is not it kind of hard to get into law school?
i have the highest gpa in delta gamma!
here. you are going to need this.
your scrunchie?
my lucky scrunchie. it helped me pass spanish.
you passed spanish because you gave professor montoya a hand-job after the final.
yeah, luckily.
elle, do you know what happened on "days of our lives" yesterday?
why, yes, margot, i do. once again, we joined hope in the search for her identity. as you know, she is been brainwashed by the evil stefano --
there he is!
pull up next to him!
calvin klein's spring line is atrocious. do not you agree?
absolutely!
class schedule, map, book list.
has warner huntington checked in yet?
uh, no. maybe you should try the lido deck.
wait -- my social events schedule is missing.
your what?
you know -- mixers, formals, beach trips.
there is a pizza welcome lunch in twenty minutes. does that count?
i guess it will have to...
what are you talking about? you are not here to see me?
no, silly. i go here.
you go where?
harvard. law school.
you got into harvard law?
what, like it is that hard?
oops! time for class. meet me after? on the benches?
uh -- sure.
yes?
aristotle.
yes?
would you be willing to stake your life on it?
i think so...
how about --
-- his life?
i do not know.
well, i recommend knowing before speaking. the law leaves much room for interpretation -- but very little for self-doubt.
do they just -- put you on the spot like that? like, all the time?
the professors? yeah, they tend to do that. socratic method.
and if you do not know the answer, they just kick you out?
you have stromwell.
did she do that to you, too?
no, but she made me cry once. not in class -- i waited until i got to my room, but yeah, she can pretty much shrivel your balls -- or you know, your whatevers.
neat.
do not worry. it gets better. who else do you have?
donovan, royalton and levinson.
speak up in donovan's class. he likes people with an opinion. sit in the back for royalton. he tends to spit when he talks about products liability.
and make sure you read the footnotes in levinson's class. that is where all her exam questions come from.
wow. I am glad i met you.
good luck.
thanks again for your help!
so -- uh -- how was your first class?
fine. except for this horrible girl who made me look bad in front of my civ pro professor. but no biggie. you are here now.  how was your summer?
good. good.
do anything exciting?
hi. sarah knottingham.
you know her?
I am sorry, i just hallucinated.
sarah was my girlfriend at prep school. we got back together over the summer at my grandmother's birthday party.
you can not even imagine.
spill.
after you went to all that trouble?
well, what am i supposed to do? he is engaged! she is got the family six- carat on her bony, unpolished finger.
you are asking the wrong girl. I am with my guy eight years and then one day it is "i met someone else. move out."
what did you do?
cried a lot and gained twenty pounds. dewey kept the trailer and my precious baby rufus. i got jackcrap.
i did not even get to go to his birthday party.
no!
what could i do?  he is a man who followed his pecker to greener pastures. I am a middle- aged high-school dropout with stretch marks and a fat ass. happens every day. at least to women like me.
that is terrible!
so, what is this sarah got that you don't? three tits?
she is from connecticut. she belongs to his stupid country club.
is she as pretty as you?
is she?
she could use some mascara and some serious highlights, but she is not completely unfortunate-looking.
could i be anymore goddamn spastic?  so you are sure, this warner guy is "the one"?
definitely! i love him!
neither.
why not?
I would rather have a client who is innocent.
yes? ms. woods?
i changed my mind. I would pick the dangerous one.
our group is full.
oh, god, was this like an rsvp thing?
it is elle!  guess what I am doing right this second?
power yoga?
picking out my wedding dress!
what?!
josh proposed!
no way --
almost.
well, hurry up so you can come home! we miss you!
i miss you guys! the people here are so vile! hardly anyone even talks to me unless it is to say something that is not nice. law school sucks!
oh, my god! i completely forgot to tell you!
what?
i got bangs!
really --
keep june first open -- you are one of my bridesmaids. and give warner our love.
i will...
wow. you are a walking felony.
thank you. having fun?
now i am.
i feel like we have barely spent any time together since we got here.
that is because i spend all my time with case studies and hypos.
tell me about it. i can not imagine doing all this and donovan's internship next year.
elle, c'mon, there is no way you will get the grades to qualify for one of those spots. you are not smart enough.
i did not mean --
am i on glue, or did i not get into the same law school you did, warner?
well, yeah, but --
but what? we took the same lsat, we take the same classes --
i just do not want to see you get your hopes up. you know how you get.
do not ask.
i was not going to --
the idiot speaks.
although mr. huntington makes an excellent point, i have to wonder if the defendant kept a thorough record of each sperm emission made throughout his life?
i did?
you are applying for my internship, are not you?
i do not know --
you should. do you have a resume?
i do.
it is pink.
and engraved... gives it that extra little something, does not it?  see you tomorrow!
you showed up warner in class? you are supposed to be showing up sarah.
i could not help it! it was the most fun I have had since I have been in law school. not only was i good enough for warner -- i was better than him. he has to see serious i am now. even donovan was impressed, and he is a total hard-ass.
you ready?
no.
yes, you are. go -- you can do this.
dewey newcomb?
who is askin'?
I am elle woods. ms. bonafante's attorney.
come again?
due to the fact that you retained the residence, ms. bonafante is entitled to full ownership of the canine property in question and we will be enforcing said ownership immediately.
huh?
tell him, paulette.
god, that felt great!
look at him. he is still scratching his head.
which must be a nice vacation for his balls...
what is going on?
donovan's firm is defending a major murder case and his caseload is so heavy he is taking on first year interns.
he chose them already?
you look -- nice.
thank you.
maiden name -- daniels.  you know her?
she was a delta gamma! not in my pledge class or anything -- she graduated five years ahead of me. but i used to take her class at the la sports club. she is amazing!
amazing how?
she could make you drop three pounds in one class. she is completely gifted!
well, in all likelihood, she is completely guilty as well. she was seen standing over her husband's dead body.
his twenty-seven year old daughter and the pool boy.
maybe she found him like that.
that is the story she will be telling the jury. we just have to prove it.
you do not really believe she is innocent?
of course, i do!
what alibi?
i can not tell you.
you understand you are on trial for murder?
i did not do it! i walked in, saw my husband lying on the floor, bent down to check his heart, screamed my head off and chutney and enrique ran inside.
where they saw you standing over the body covered in his blood.
why would i kill my husband?
insurance? a love affair? pure unadulterated hatred? believe me, the da will come up with plenty of reasons.
i loved him!
he was thirty-four years older than you. that does not sound so good to a jury.
brooke, i believe you. but a jury is gonna want an alibi.
i can not give you that. and if you put me on the stand, I will lie.
were you with another man?
go to hell.
I will take that as a no.
are we done for today?
i believe we are.
I am a delta gamma and I am a huge fan of yours!
you took my class in la. you had the best high kick I have ever seen. are you one of my lawyers?
sort of.
i feel so bad for her. i mean, she is in jail! and she is innocent. but I am the only one who believes her. donovan totally thinks she is guilty.
that is because men are big, fat retards who do not -- oh, my god...
so, this is the only interaction you two have ever had?
no. sometimes i say "okay" instead of "fine".
have you ever considered asking him if he would like a cold beverage? or perhaps a neck massage?
what is the point?  look at me.
i am. and I am looking at a beautiful, fabulous, sexy woman.
good one.
trust me. you have got the equipment, you just need to read the manual.
i got out of the shower, walked downstairs, saw her standing over my father, and called the police.
did she have a weapon in her hand?
no.
was there any reason for you to believe she had discarded a weapon?
uh, yeah, because the bitch shot him.
was there any evidence that mrs. windham shot him?
his dead body with a bullet in it.
what did you see when you entered the house?
i saw mrs. windham standing over the body of mr. windham.
was she carrying a weapon?
no, she was crying her eyes out.
so she was distraught that her husband was dead?
oh, yes. mrs. windham is the most sweet, wonderful woman i know. i have loved her since the day she hired me. she could never do something this awful. i know this because we are very close.
okay, if brooke did not kill the guy, who did?
my money's on the angry daughter or the ex-wife.
all i know is -- it is not brooke.
that is touching, elle, but we need an alibi.
I am here to see brooke windham.
licensed attorney or family member?
uh -- family.
relation?
I am her sister.
name?
delta. gamma.
are you okay? you look so sad... and so orange.
I am glad it is you and not donovan.
he means well. he is really brilliant and all.
elle, i can't. you do not understand.
who could better understand than me?
it is so shameful...
whatever it is -- it could save you.
that is just it -- it would ruin me!
how?
i have made my fortune on my ability to teach women how to perfect their bodies with the brooke's butt buster workout.
i know! you helped me go from a six to a four!
no!
I am a fraud! but it is not like normal people can have this ass! if my fans knew, I would lose everything. I have already lost my husband. i rather be in jail then lose my reputation!
did you get it?
yes. but i can not tell you what it is.
why the hell not?
i promised her I would keep it secret. i can not break the bonds of sisterhood!
if you tell him, you will probably make summer associate. who cares about brooke? think about yourself.
i gave her my word, warner.
explain to me why you are so anti- brooke.
uh, for starters, she will not give us an alibi --
aside from that.
she is completely untrustworthy.
why?
she married an old man, she is made a living on telling women they are too fat, she hawks her crap on the home shopping network...
a) he is an old man with a really big penis. b) she never told me i was fat. and c) victoria principal sells on that network.
and d) brooke is obviously hiding something.
but maybe it is not what you think.
but maybe it is --
you are kind of being a butt-head right now.
how do you figure?
because people are not always what they seem to be and you refuse to see that. have a little faith. you might be surprised.
i can not believe you called me a butthead. no one's called me a butt- head since ninth grade.
maybe not to your face...
damn. we can not see her for an hour?
no, she can not move for an hour.
mrs. windham vandermark?
we are here from austen, platt, jaret & donovan --
she is naked.
I am covered in very expensive egyptian mud -- hardly naked.
so, i hear the tart from california shot heyworth.
well, that is what we are trying to prove did not happen. do you have any reason to believe it did?
i never met the woman, but from what my daughter tells me, she is quite the cun --
she is not!
did your daughter ever say anything to you about brooke and heyworth's relationship?
aside from the fact that he found her on an infomercial? she said they humped like gorillas. chutney could hear them all the way in the pool house.
i' m sure that was very awkward for chutney.  much as it is for me, hearing you tell about it.
but i guess it was not enough for brooke.
why do you say that?
have not you seen the cabana boy?
hovering?
i did not stick around long enough to watch him stick his swizzle stick in her mouth, but I would bet my next check that that is where he was about to put it.
how can you still believe she is innocent?
you are going to trust the word of a woman who named her child after a condiment? she is ly-ing.
and you know this for a fact?
did you see the icky black color of her hair?
so?
i never trust a woman who is not blonde. except for my friend serena, but that is only because she is a blonde at heart. that is the whole reason I am starting the blonde legal defense fund.
the what?
blondes are discriminated against worldwide! brooke's a blonde, and people are saying she is sleeping with the cheesy pool boy and shooting her husband. if she was a mousy brunette, it would be, "oh, the poor widow."
you are serious?
okay, how would it work?
it would be a full-service law firm, by and for blondes, providing positive blonde role models and community outreach in high blonde areas. i mean, think about it -- name one blonde intellectual role model.
i can't.
that is a direct result of anti- blonde discrimination!
wait -- hilary clinton.
if she were a true blonde, she would have left the cheating bastard. blondes do not let their husbands get fellated by brunettes and live to tell about it.
in that case, maybe heyworth got fellated by a brunette and brooke caught him.
exactly how much gorilla sex do you think a sixty-year-old man can take?
that is not really a topic that keeps me up at night -- but maybe it should.
what the hell is that for?
the bags under your eyes. you are an attractive man, but you need to take better care of yourself.
i do not --  do that stuff.
well, you should -- if you look good, you feel good and if you feel good, you project joy into the world.
projecting joy is not my job.
fine. sorry i brought it up.
you really think I am attractive?
for a butt-head? yes.
why did not you call me?
what?
we spend a beautiful night together and then i never hear from you again?
-- uh --
I am sorry?
for what? breaking my heart or ruining sex for me with any other man?
uh -- both?
forget it. I have already spent too many hours crying over you.
I am not having an affair with enrique -- you know a delta gamma would never sleep with a man who wears a thong! i just liked watching him bend over to clean the filter --
i believe you! do not worry.
i believe her, too. i do not think she is having an affair with enrique.
too bad you and i are the only ones.
I am still can not believe you did not tell donovan the alibi.
it is not my alibi to tell --
i know. i thought that was very -- classy of you.
really? thanks.
warner can not even do his own laundry.
i know. he has it sent out.
did you know he got wait-listed when he applied? his father had to make a call.
you are kidding!
what are you doing here?!
we are on our way to the bridal show in new york so we thought we would rescue you from law school for the night.
you guys -- i can't. we are in the middle of a trial.
where is warner?
oh, how sweet! you made friends with a nerdy girl.
margot!
speaking of which, can you please put on some party clothes? you look like someone rolled you in something sticky and dragged you through a k- mart.
i can not believe you guys are actually here -- but this case is important. I will make it up to you after finals, okay? i -- promise. i really want to do a good job.
he is gay! enrique is gay!
what?!
pink ones.
see?
what are you talking about?
he is gay -- he is not brooke's lover! he is making it up. whoever killed heyworth is paying him off.
back up. how do you know he is gay?
gay men know designers. straight men don't.
what is going on?
enrique's gay. I am sure of it.
he did leave a cher tape in the pool house once --
thanks for the backup.
how was i supposed to know what kind of shoes you had on?
mr. salvatore, do you have any proof that you and mrs. windham were having an affair?
just the love in my heart.
did you ever take mrs. windham on a date?
yes.
where?
a restaurant in oakland. where no one would recognize us.
and how long have you been sleeping with mrs. windham?
three months.
and what is your boyfriend's name?
chuck.
good work today, ms. woods.
thank you!
and after they set his nose, he came back for his truck and i offered to drive for him since he was still on pain-killers and we spent the whole afternoon together! he was unconscious for part of it, but it was really fun!
I am so happy for you!
how did it go at the trial?
great. donovan actually said the words "good work, ms. woods". he takes me seriously! can you believe it?
of course i can believe it. you are going to make a great lawyer.
donovan asked to see you before you leave.
really?
he is already got his coffee -- maybe he needs a donut.
sit down.
is everything okay?
you followed your intuition today and you were right on target. i should have listened.
thank you.
about the alibi --
I am sorry, but --
I am impressed that you took the initiative to go there and get it. that is what makes a good lawyer. and on top of that, you gained the client's trust and kept it. that is what makes a great lawyer. you are smart, elle. smarter than most of the guys i have on my payroll.
i think it is time discuss your career path. have you thought about where you might be a summer associate?
not really. i know how competitive it all is --
you are hitting on me?
you are a beautiful girl, elle.
so everything you just said --
I am a man who knows what i want.
you almost had me fooled.
what?
maybe you should sleep with the judge too. then we can win the case.
hey --
I am quitting.
whoa -- why?
law school was a mistake. getting this internship was a mistake.
what are you talking about? you earned it --
so now you are -- ?
going back to la. maybe i can fulfill my destiny as a useless bimbo and join the swedish bikini team. no more navy blue suits. no more panty- hose. no more trying to be something I am not.
what if you are trying to be something you are? the hell with donovan. stay.
you can not go home!
what is the point of staying? all people see when they look at me is blonde hair and big boobs. no one's ever going to take me seriously. the people at law school don't, warner does not -- i do not even think my parents take me seriously. they wanted me to grow up and become a victoria's secret model who marries a rock star. now, for the first time, it seemed like someone expected me to do something better with my life than wear underwear for a living. but i was kidding myself -- donovan did not see me as a lawyer. he saw me as a piece of ass just like everyone else. it turns out, i am a joke.
is he always such an ass?
he is the top defense attorney in the state. of course he is an ass.
but is he an ass that is going to win my case?
he is an ass that is going to try.
he thinks I am guilty, does not he?
that is not what is important.
to me it is. he does not trust me. why should i trust him?
what are you so happy about? you are on trial for murder.
get up.
what?
you are fired. i have new representation.
who?
massachusetts supreme judicial court rule 3:03.
see?
you are not going up there.
yes, i am.
i do. I am not allowing it.
but you agreed last night. in the office? when we were discussing my "career"?
okay -- ms. windham, when you uh arrived back at the house? was your father there?
not that i saw. but like i said, i went straight upstairs to take a shower.
and when you came downstairs, what happened?
i saw brooke standing over his body, drenched in his blood.
but mrs. windham did not have a gun?
no, she would stashed it by then.
did you hear a shot fired?
no. i was in the shower.
so at some point in the -- twenty minutes you were in the shower, your father was shot?
i guess.
but you did not hear the shot, because you were in the shower.
yes. i was washing my hair.
miss windham, can you tell us what you would been doing earlier in the day?
i got up, went to starbucks, went to the gym, got a perm, and came home.
where you got in the shower.
yes.
yes, your honor. had you ever gotten a perm before, miss windham?
yes.
how many, would you say?
two a year since i was twelve. you do the math.
you know, a girl in my sorority, tracy marcinko, got a perm once. even though we all told her not to. curls really were not the right look for her --  she did not have your bone structure.
chutney, why is it that tracy marcinko's curls were ruined when she got hosed down?
because they got wet.
that is right. because is not the first cardinal rule of perm maintenance that you are forbidden to wet your hair for at least twenty-four hours after getting a perm at the risk of de-activating the ammonium thiglycolate?
and if you in fact, heard the gunshot, then brooke windham would not have had time to hide the gun before you got downstairs. which would mean that you would have had to have found mrs. windham with a gun in her hand to make your story sound plausible. is not that right?
she is younger than i am. did she tell you that? how would you feel if your father married someone younger than you?
you, however, had time to hide the gun, did not you, chutney? after you shot your father?
oh, my god!
oh, my god!!
i wish we could stay longer, but i have a game.
i can not believe you are a laker girl!
hello! you are like, a lawyer.
not yet.
it made me realize something. I am an idiot.
really?
in court. on opposing sides.
are you serious?
huh. imagine that. looks like i am.
I am a bitch.
yes, you are.
and donovan's a scumbag for coming on to you.
yes, he is.
you are pawning the rock?!
hell, yes. we have got finals to study for. in jamaica.
up for a celebration dinner?
are you asking me on a date?
as long as you realize I am not just some man-toy you can show off like a trophy.
then, forget it. besides, i have an early class tomorrow.
so friday at eight?
someone missed you.
is he the only one?
what do you think?
