ed can run fast, talk fast, eat fast, and play cards fast, but he is fucking slow when it comes to spotting the roz.
the reason he is called bacon is he spent so much of his youth in the police station that people thought he was one of them. but he is a big boy now and it is time to move on.
what are you talking about? i am bloody skinny, pal.
of course you are. all right, ed.
how much did you say it was, tom?
you know how much it is, nick.
and that does include the amp?
you know it does not include the amp.
what have you come as?
cupid stupid! that is the last time i am getting any more fruit off you tom. call that fresh? there was more small hairy armoured things in your fruit than there was fruit. you should open a butcher's, not a grocer's.
if you will order stuff that comes from kat-man-fucking-du do not be surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ never mind that, what about the money?
get your fingers out of my soup!
soap is called soap because he likes to keep his hands clean of any unlawful behaviour. he is proud of his job, and even more proud that it is legal.
he is a stroppy sod but he is got more balls than a golfer, only he does not know it. ' * cut from completed film.
are you sure you can afford twenty-five?
well that depends on how you look at it. i can afford it as long as i see it again, if that is what you mean. you got the rest from the fat man and bacon?
who is this fat man, then?
bacon, the fat man and myself, and it is time to make a call to harry.
you got it all?
a hundred grand.
you see it is not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
the man who decides if you can play is this man harry, or hatchet harry as some including himself like to call him.
when the old bastard is not playing cards he is chasing a thousand debts that ill-fated individuals owe for an array of reasons.
sex and sleaze and antique shotguns are all deep and dear in harry's stone cold heart.
hatchet has a colleague, a monster of a man: barry the baptist.
the baptist got his name from drowning people for hatchet.
all right, all right, so we can say he is good.
better than good, he is a fucking liability.
where did he get a hundred grand?
and jd is his dad, and owns the whole property?
no mortgage, no debts; lock, stock, the sodding lot . . . do not worry, i got it under control.
good, you can get this under control now.
er, very nice harry. what is it for?
do not play innocent with me bazza; spanking!
twenty-five from me, tom, soap and yourself; a hundred grand to the pound. you do not need to count it.
i still will, if you do not mind.
so, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twenty-five grand invested. that is going on previous experiences.
that is going on optimism.
whatever it is going on, it is still enough to send you on a cooking course.
you are not funny tom; you are fat and look as though you should be funny, but you are not.
because it is cheap like a budgie.
and nobody wants to live next door to the people that we live next to; a bit anti-social, you know.
what do you mean?
he means they are thieving dogs.
how long has he been in there, son?
about twenty minutes.
is he on his own?
just carrying a bag.
let's have a look, shall we?
it is not him, dad.
try that one.
mind your language in front of my boy.
jesus christ!
did i say speak? and it is mr harry to you . . . now do not disappoint me and chose your words carefully. you may speak.
I will have it for mr harry in a few days. i have been busy, and i am nearly there.
son, have a look in his locker.
no chance of you lifting this sunbed up is there?
what you telling us for? the only thing i care about is whether you get your rest in.
tom, you are all heart.
listen cooky, you want to make sure that man rests before he plays; it is in all our interests.
chill, winston, it is me and charlie can see it is me, so what is the problem?
the problem is, willy, that charlie and yourself are not the quickest of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as i say and keep the fucking cage locked.
what are you carrying, willy?
er, fertilizer.
you went out six hours ago to buy a money counter and you come back carrying two bags of fertilizer. alarm bells are ringing, willy.
we need fertilizer, winston.
we also need a fucking money counter, william! we have to get the money out by thursday and I will be buggered if i am counting it . . . and if you have to get your sodding fertilizer, could not you be a little more subtle?
what do you mean?
i mean we grow copious amounts of ganja, and you do not look like your average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that is what i mean, willy.
what the hell are you doing here?
why, what is up?
er, let me guess, my foot in your arse? a game of cards and hatchet harry. you are supposed to be getting some rest, boy!
shotguns? what, like guns that fire shot?
oh, you must be the brains then. that is right, guns that fire shot . . . make sure you bring everything from inside the gun cabinet. there will be a load of guns, that is all i want. I will pay you when you deliver. everything outside the cabinet you can keep; it is yours.
oh, thanks very much. and there had better be something there for us.
it is a fucking stately home, of course there'll be something there.
like what?
like antiques.
antiques? what the fuck do we know about antiques? we rob post offices and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
if it looks old, it is worth money, simple. so stop fucking moaning and rob the place.
so who is the guv? who we doing this for?
you are doing it for me is all you need to know. you only know that because you need to know.
i see, one of those `on a need to know' basis things, like a james bond film, is it?
careful, remember who is giving you this job.
i hate these southern shites.
fucking northern monkeys.
invitations.
invitations?
yeah invitations, you know a pretty white piece of paper with your name on it.
well we have got about a hundred thousand pretty pieces of paper with the queen on it. will that do?
all right, just you; the others can wait in samoan jo's next door.
samoan jo's? yon mean the pub? hold on . . .
hold on bollocks, no one but card players in here tonight sonny, and i do mean no one.
you must be eddy. jd's son.
yup, you must be harry? sorry, i did not know your father.
never mind son, you just might meet him if you carry on like that.
what is that?
a cocktail, you asked for a cocktail.
no, i asked you to give me a refreshing drink. i was not expecting a fucking rainforest; you could fall in love with an orang-utan in that.
you want a pint, go to the pub.
i thought this was a pub.
it is a samoan pub.
well whatever it is, could you get your man to turn the tv down?
you ask him if you like, but i would leave him to it if i was you.
ok gary, we call each other kenny, all right?
all right, kenny.
can not you pull that stocking down further, kenny?
it just cost me fifty quid to have this done.  if you think i am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you are mistaken, kenny.
i thought you said no staff, bazza!
you get the guns?
you should see what they did to poor gary.
that is quite a raise, one hundred and fifty on my hundred.
yes . . . and is there something else you want to say? eddy
i will.
you will what?
i will loan you the money.
i think i would rather just turn them over.
i am not interested in what you would rather; i want to keep going. i am also offering you the money, so we do not have to turn them over because you can borrow.
i need two hundred and fifty grand.
no, you need five hundred grand to see me.
that is if i want to see you.
well, you are going to have a problem carrying on, aintcha.
I will see ya.
for half a million?
unless you are going to accept twenty quid.
and still got a sense of humour. that is not monkey nuts son; you can still fold.  ok, before i loan you this, i expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, crystal? that is sunday, ok?
I will kill him!
stop fucking around, tom, and think. what are we going to do?
let me tell you about hatchet harry. once there was this geezer called smithy robinson who worked for harry. it was rumoured that he was on the take. harry invited smithy round for an explanation. smithy did not do a very good job. within a minute harry lost his temper and reached for the nearest thing at hand, which happened to be a fifteen-inch black rubber cock. he then proceeded to batter poor smithy to death with this; that was seen as a pleasant way to go . . . hence, hatchet harry is a man you pay if you owe.
I will think of something, do not worry.
the odds are one hundred to one so all we need is five grand.
i would rather put my money on a three-legged rocking horse. the odds are a hundred to one for a good reason, bacon . . . it will not win. so where is ed with all the bright ideas?
at the bottom of a bottle and has been for two days; it is hit him hard.
it is hit us all hard!
yeah, but he has got to tell his dad he is about to lose his bar.
so how long do you have to wait 'till you see a return?
probably no longer than four weeks.
a month? so, my friend, what fucking good is that, if we need it in six . . . no, five days?
well, it is still a good idea.
so do you know these geezers well?
well enough. i have been buying gear off one of them for a couple of years.
what they like then?
poofs. nothing heavy, four public school guys. soft as shite.
there is one steel gate as you go in but they never lock it.
what do you mean, never? well what have they got it for, then?
i must have been there fifty times, it is never been locked; they are not suspicious. everybody who goes there are toffs. they are all into that karma crap: `if i do not harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
is there no way they can get back to you?
even if they could they would be too shit scared. they have got no muscle; they are gutless faggots.
well, what do you want us to do about it?
hit the fuckers.
i do not know how you have reached that conclusion.
they can not report they have had all their drugs and money nicked, can they?
what was that, armed? what do you mean, armed? armed with what?
er, bad breath, colourful language and a feather duster! . . . what do you think they will be armed with? guns, you tit!
guns! you never said anything about guns. a minute ago this was the safest job in the world, now it is turning in to a bad day in bosnia . . .
jesus, soap, stop being such a mincer. i thought about that and...
and we will just have to find out who is going to be carrying them.
carrying them. they could all be carrying them for what we know.
no, just one of them is in charge of them going to the job. so i assume he will still
oh, you assume, do ya? what do they say about assumption being the brother of all fuck-ups?
it is the mother of fuck-ups, stupid!
well, excuse me, brother, mother or any other sucker, does not make any difference, they are still fucking guns, and they still fire fucking bullets!
not normal weed. this is some fucked-up skunk class a. i can not think let alone move shit.
does not sound very good to me.
neither me, but it depends on what flicks your switch, and the light's on and burning bright for the masses.
jews do not celebrate christmas, tom.
never mind that now. i also need some artillery, you know, a couple of sawn-off shotguns.
bloody hell, tom! this is a bit heavy. this is london, not the lebanon' who do you think i am?
i think you are nick the greek.
next time we do a job like this we gonna want more money, or we are going back to post offices and cars.
where are the others?
there are no others.
now, stop fucking around. the others, the old ones?
i do not know what you mean.
there were two old guns there; where are they?
not in the cabinet there wasn't. there was a couple of old hammer-lock muskets the butler was carrying; they were ours, and we sold 'em!
well you just better un-sell 'em, sharpish.
they were . . .
i am not fucking interested.
jesus, if i pick them up, will they stay in one piece? where did you get them from?
i got contacts. listen tom, if you pointed them at me I would shit myself or do whatever you said to do. either way you still get the desired effect.
they look nice, i agree . . . but lacking in criminal credibility, are not they? i might get laughed at. how much do you want for these muskets?
seven hundred each.
sawn-offs are out, tom; people like to have a bit mare range nowadays.
range? i do not want to blow the arse out of this country, granted, but i do not want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. i want to look fucking mean.
of course you will look mean, tom, you will look really scary.
all right, let's forget about them for the time being. what about your weed man?
rory breaker is standing by. you stand to make a lot of money, tommy boy.
go on.
i like your bar.
yes?
i want your bar.
and?
do you want me to draw a picture?
harry, that boy does not know his arsehole from his ear-hole, or you from a hoodwink. this bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
what, and i care? remember, you do have the luxurious advantage of being able to sustain your son's life.
and you do have a reputation, so I will choose my words carefully. but not to put too fine a point on it, fuck yourself, harry!
there is nothing to worry about, it is going to be easy.
there is no such thing as easy in my experience and, if you think this is going to be easy, you are a dick. it may be easier than most but it is not going to be easy.
what is that idiot doing next door?  we use your van. it is up some stairs this place, so we will stick out like balls on a bulldog. plank is going up first. there is a cage but it is never locked, is it plank?
no.
and it better bloody not be. once he is firmly in place, he gets the rest of us in. we will get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. i can not see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. when the job is done we will come straight back here. it is dark by then, unload and robert's your father's brother. everybody savvy?
yes?
it is happening tomorrow morning. get back here now.
where did you get those from, a museum?
nick the greek.
how much did you part with?
seven hundred for the pair.
drachmas, i hope. i would feel safer with a chicken drumstick. they could do more harm than good.
jesus, tom, do they work?
i dunno, but they look nice. i rather like ' em.
top of the list of priorities, how nice they look.
is there something we should know about you, soap?
i am not sure what is more worrying, the job or your past.
where the fuck are they going? to butcher a sheep? i thought this was a robbery.
where did they get those outfits from? have not we got some like that, tom?
hello, can i help you?
all right, it is plank. is willie there?
no, I am afraid he is not. he is out at the moment.
well, perhaps you can help?
well, perhaps i can't, plank, if you know what i mean.
look, could you just open the door so i could talk without shouting?
i can not help you, plank.
i think you will find it is in your interest.
hold on. ok.  look willie, it is plank outside asking for you, he says it is in our interest.
willy, this is the last time, and do not let him know that you are here, otherwise he will be here all day, and get rid of him quick. we have work to do.
what the fuck is going on?
i thought you were going to leave me out there all day.
i did not know you were a kebab man, plank.
lives and learns does not one.
sorry, got to do business like this now; can not be too careful these days.
i know.  now shut it. you say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left.
what are you doing, plank?
what do you think i am doing? hold on. what are you doing? unlock that gate. oi! i said unlock that fucking gate.

just hold on, i got the keys.
what the fuck did you do to fauntleroy?
i did not touch him, he just passed out.
j, what is going on out there?  get the rifle out, charles. we are being fucked.
get the sodding gate open now, plank.
it must be this one.
just give me the keys.
do not you stags move or I will kill the lot of ya.
who are you going to kill plank? there is no one there.
right, his leg's going now.
all right, all fucking right, i am coming.  willie, he does not know you are here, just sort something out, ok.
and all your friends, there is a good lad.
there is only three of us here.
do you want me to take his leg off? where is the fourth?
i mean it, there is only three of us here.
plank?
yeah, one of them's out.
ok, open the gate.
where?
out the back.
and the weed?
out the back.
you got a ticket already and, if you do not move it now, sir, we will move it for you.
I will only be a minute.
you have already been fifteen.
look. go on, look.
at what, exactly?
my van is half full.
so?
so I have just got to put you in, and i am off.
my neck, dog.  that is the last bag?
how about you? all right?
everything all right out there, tom?
right as rain.
where the hell are we supposed to hide?
no i fucking don't! you can not make a cup of tea, edward.
why not? the whole of the british empire was built on cups of tea.
and look what happened to that.
if you think i am going to war without one, you are mistaken, mate.
of course you will, sweetheart. this one, search this one. ed finds the keys without any trouble.
I will meet you in the van when you have finished with handsome there.
well jesus, that was not so bad, was it?
when the bottle in my arse has contracted I will let you know.
bacon, see what we got.
let's have a butcher's. jesus, there is lots of everything. we have got god knows how much of this stinking weed; we have got a shit load of cash; and we have got a . . . traffic warden.
a what?
a traffic warden. look, what is this?
i think he is still alive. he is got claret coming out of him somewhere. what did they want with a traffic warden?
i dunno, but i do not think we need him. dump him at the lights.
it is about time you give my young friends a visit, chris. tomorrow is the day and mum seems to be the word, and i can not have that now, can i, chris?
no harry, you can't.
that is it all done, we are off.
you think it is a good idea taking it back to yours?
there is nowhere else to keep it, and it is the last place they are going to look. anyway the battle's over and the war is won.
what is left over?'
hold on, give us half a chance to count it.
what about all the gear?
i want you to search the house for bugs. i mean i want you to strip it.
what is the point in that? even if it was a bug they would have taken it with 'em.
it is too late for you to start thinking john. it is a possibility and that is good enough for me. and after you strip the house, i want you to get every thieving slag this side of ceylon and torture them, badly. i want to know who is responsible, otherwise i will hold you responsible.
so we have a bit of a problem, do not we?
er well, yes we do.
in fact it is a little more than a bit of a problem, is not it? you could say that in the scale of these things this is the mount fucking everest of problems, could not you? . . . and the reason it is such a mon fucking-strosity of a problem is because you do not have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?
scarface, i have watched scarface. you want to know how to do a drug deal, you watch scarface!
that inspires confidence, that does.
this guy rory breaker can afford to do the deal at the price we are selling. it is not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse?
i would take a pain in the arse for half a million.
you would take a pain n the arse full stop.
tom, the fatter you get, the sadder you get.
yeah?
that is no way to answer the phone.
is that you, dean?
sure is.
what can i do for you?
you know those shotguns i sold ya, well i need 'em back.
not likely i am afraid; i do not think I will be seeing them again.
i got the money to pay for 'em.
i am sure you do, but i do not think you understand; i am not going to see them or the guns again.
you fucking well have to get 'em!
we made a deal for everything inside the cabinet.
inside, out-fuckin'-side. i do not give a shit, you get those guns because if you do not . . .
yeah, bazza, what?
you heard of harry lonsdale? otherwise known as back-you-up with-a- hatchet harry, infamous for his removal of digits?
who was that?
that was hatchet horrible harry.
jesus, i have heard about him.
we are in the spite. they were his fucking guns that we sold; we got to find 'em.
dog, i have found the cash!
the stupid bastards! count it!
shit, dog, there is a lot. do not you want to do this next door?
we are not going next door until we have flayed these dead men walking. count it out the back. i do not want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
but...  give it us here, you dozy sod. you hide and get the guns ready. wait until they are well in, then give it to 'em.
there is six black cocks sitting on the side of the road. how many beaks have they got between them?
six.
how many wings have they got between them?
twelve.
how many feet?
er, well, twelve.
that is right. so how many whiskers has the little white kitten got?
how the fuck should i know?
how come you know so much about black cocks and so little about white pussy?]
the money, the gear!
that is fucked it. what do we do now? no money, no weed; it is all been swapped for a pile of corpses.
ok, do not panic; let's think about this.
hello, john. nice holiday?
i will not be seeing you again chris; i have paid him every last penny.
i am sure you have, no one was accusing you of being dishonest, john.
the boys had 'em. i know you like these things; wondered if you wanted them?
er, yeah, sure, I will have 'em.
have you counted the money?
yeah, it is all there, to the pound.
they were going to pay, then?
it looks like t, but who knows? the opportunity was there. in my experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
good job, chris.
we gotta get those guns.
this is dangerous shit, dean; we do not even know who lives in there.
listen, i do not care who lives in there; all as i know it is got to be preferable to death by hatchet.
furry muff, let's go.
i hope this is the right move.
it is either that, my old boy's place, and we lose a digit daily. i am going to call him.
he will care all right. that was going to be his money. whether he cares about us is different. pass your phone.
think about what you are going to say, ed; we are on thin ice.
that you, boy?
it is ed, if that is what you mean.
it is pay day, am not it?
i wanted to talk to you about that.
i bet you did. i have got half a million nicker sitting in front of me, which means that some poor sod doesn't. you must have upset a few people, boy . . . but that is not really my concern, is it? but what does concern me is the guns you had. i want to talk to you about that. get your arse over here now, and i do mean now!
well?
well what?
well, what did he say?
he said he thinks we have paid him, and he wants to talk about those guns . . . now.
you what? what are you on about?
listen, if he has the guns he might have the money . . . i think we should go and see him.
you and me, tom.
what do you mean, me?
tom, this is our case.
. . . what?
this is our money, tom! . . . now i think we should go.
tom, do not mess around, let's go.
i'11 meet you in the car.
tom?
I will only be a minute.
son?
made a few quid, did ya? now where is it?
you all right back there, mate?
very fucking funny. where is what i want?
it is in an office; i have just left it in the office. 137
well, you had better go and get it from the office. that is if you want to see your son reach his next birthday. now chop-fuckin'-chop.
all right, furry muff.
what are you doing?
well, it is a five minute walk or a thirty second drive.
you had better be careful.
well, what is going on?
i do not know, but what i do know is that there is no more harry, which means there is no more debt, and if there is no more debt there is no more problem, and there is no more problem with our neighbours because they are all dead. i think, if i get this right, we have not done anything wrong anyway, which means we are in the clear.
the traffic warden went to the morgue and recognized dog and his lot so that put us sort of in the clear. they got no case against us because there is no evidence against us.
apart from those shotguns.
and tom took care of them.
i wanted to talk to you about that.
well, talk.
well not exactly, no; i got 'em sitting in the car, actually; i thought we might sell them back to the greek, but i am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.
the only item that connects us with the crime is sitting in your car which is sitting outside?
we paid seven hundred quid for those guns. they could hardly trace them to you, could they?
i do not think we will take the risk for seven hundred quid.
tom, go and throw those guns off a bridge.
jd.
chris.  you come to collect something, chris? should i have something for you?
nope.
can i help?
i think i can help you, as it happens.
yes?
i have got something for ya. well, for your boy, actually.
well, i suggest you speak to him, then.
that should take care of that lot. we are now officially in the money- loaning business, all right, son?
all right, dad.
well, put your seatbelt on then.
there is nothing in it!
what do you mean?
i mean it is fucking empty.
