this place is a gold mine.
lead mine.
what?
it is a lead mine.
right.
i do not know why I am talking to you, you have got that thing on your head.
you finding lots of cactus and shit?
it is not just cactus.  there is the nopals, the yuccas--
looks like a lot of cactus to me.
man knows a hundred-fifty varieties of beer, he can not tell a poinsettia from a prickly pear.
cliff--
you live in a place, you should know something about it. explore--
cliff--
i was driving back from apache wells when they got me on the radio.
this was a rifle range way back when. but we figured it is not army land anymore, it is your jurisdiction.
I have got the forensics fella coming down from the rangers. no way to know how old the body is without some lab work.
that ring--
masons been around a long while.
treasure hunter?
old bullets.  he uhm-- makes art with them.
the sheriff says we should not touch anything,
he can not hear with that rig on-- mikey!
pilar, is uhm--is amado okay?
okay? he is not here?
no. is he sick?
he is going to wish he was dead.
"fishbait," says buddy, in that quiet way of his, "what you know about them tires that went missing from markets?" fishbait thinks for a minute, then he lifts up a loose board from the porch floor and calls down into it, "c'mon out, pooter, they caught us!"
buddy deeds. he had a way.
he known who it was onnacouna the tire tracks in the dirt from the back of the garage to where they loaded up. "old fishbait," he says, "never lifted a thing in this world if there was a way he could roll it."
sam! i was just telling a few about your old man.
he was a unique individual.
big day coming up--i wish we would have thought of it while he was still living. but he went so unexpected.
better late than never. korean war hero, sheriff for near thirty years-- buddy deeds memorial p--
i heard there was a bit of a fuss.
oh, you know, the usual troublemakers. danny padilla from the sentinel, that crowd.
every other damn thing in the country is called after martin luther king, they can not let our side have one measly park?
king was not mexican, fenton--
bad enough all the street names are in spanish--
there was a faction pulling for that boy who was killed in the gulf war-- ruben--
--santiago.
right. but nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news--
they just wanted it to be one of theirs--
that is not the whole story. the mexicans that know, that remember, understand what buddy was for their people.  hell, it was mercedes over there who swung the deciding vote for him.
that so?
she put it even at three to three, so as the mayor i get to cast the tiebreaker. the older generation will not have any problem with it. they remember how buddy come to be sheriff, that it was all 'cause he took their part.
tell that one, hollis--
hell, everybody heard that story a million times.
the two of us were the only deputies back then me and buddy--it's what-- '58--
'57, 1 believe--
and the sheriff at the time was big charley wade. charley was one of your old-fashioned bribe-or-bullets kind of sheriffs, he took a healthy bite out of whatever moved through this county.
what is that for?
jimmy got a kitchen full of wetbacks, most of 'em relatives. people breed like chickens.
so?
i roust some muchacho on the street, does not have his papers, all he got to say is "yo trabajo para jimmy herrera."
it is your deal. you sweated it out of him, you pick it up.
there is going to be some left over for you, buddy. i take care of my boys.
that is not the point.
you feeling bad for jimmy? have him tell you the size of the mordida they took out of his hide when he run a place on the other side. those old boys in ciudad leon--
I am not picking it up.
you do whatever i say you do or else you put it on the trail, son.
you ever shoot anybody was looking you in the eye?
who said anything about shootin' anybody?
whole different story; is not it?
you are fired. you are outta the department.
there is not a soul in this county is not sick to death of your bullshit, charley. you made yourself scarce, you could make a lot of people happy.
you little pissant--
now or later, charley. you will not have any trouble finding me.
"mas cerveza por favor."
that buddy was a cool breeze.
charley wade were known to have put a good number of people in the ground, and your daddy gets eyeball to eyeball with him.
we made our collection at roderick's place and that was the last anybody seen hide nor hair of him.  he went missing the next day, along with ten thousand dollars in county funds from the safe at the jail.
never heard from him again?
not a peep. buddy run the man out of town.
oh--he come to an accommodation. money does not always need to change hands to keep the wheels turning.
right.
look, i know you had some problems with your father, and he and muriel-- well--
your mother was a saint.
--but buddy deeds was my salvation.
you were not in here tonight, were you?
no sir.
go out through the back.
hospital says the other kid is in bad shape--
the shooter local?
down from houston. i think he knew the girl before.
okay--we'll take a statement from all the gis before they go back to post. you can get the story from otis over at the club.
any poop on the john doe you found out there today?
nothin' much. the rangers put ben wetzel on it. catch you later.
something wrong?
they have got my amado.
got him here?
somebody called--something about an electronics store.
I will see what is going on.
i was--i was real sorry about nando. he was a good fella. we have not talked since.
we have not talked since high school.
yeah. I will go check on your boy.
he is all yours.
are you okay?
i do not know what the big deal is.
you will find out when i get you home. thanks, sam.
there is not that much down here, colonel. big o's is the only place in the county that our african american soldiers are uhm--that they feel comfortable in.
have we had trouble there before?
since I have been stationed here? a fistfight now and then--
we had a kid pass out in the men's room. the town is not much.
you know how it is, colonel--first time away from home, dealing with new people--i remember my first hitch--
substance abuse?
well, yeah, but i went through the program. i have not had a drink since--
i meant on the post. in general. how are you dealing with it?
i sprint the last quarter mile. you gentlemen do not have to keep up if you do not care to.
appreciate it, sir.
guy cracks walnuts with his asshole.
you get the feeling he does not want to be here?
sam the man.
hey, ben. thanks for coming down.
how is business?
business is booming. got your drugs, got your illegals--had a shooting the other night at big o's--soldier got ventilated.
i hear they are closing that post down.
september '97, that is all she wrote.
gonna pull a lot of jobs out of this county.
yeah, we will have folks swimming over to mexico to work in the sweatshops.
that the word on our boy?
yeah, this is skinny.
skinny?
we find a body, it is either skinny or stinky, depending on how much meat there is on the bones.
nice job.
male, 40 to 50 years old, five-foot- eleven, chewed tobacco--then we get into the dental records--
charley wade.
that badge--
--it did not come out of a cereal box.
yeah.
you know the popular version of how he left town.
everybody on the border knows that story.
you got a cause of death?
skull was intact, no soft tissue left--not much to go on.
so he could have gone out to the base, hopped the fence, dug down into the dirt on the old rifle range and had a heart attack.
you uhm--you remember what old buddy carried for a side arm?
colt peacemaker.
a .45--
he swore by it.  what?
just wondering.
so is buddy on your short list?
if it was some poor mojado, swam across at night, got lost in the scrub and starved out there, we would not go any further. but this is a formerly prominent citizen.
you got to investigate. no question about it.
what i will do is keep names out of it till we got some answers or hit a dead end. you know how the press is with a murder story--even if it is forty years old.
yeah, it is a pretty cold trail.
i always wondered what you mayors do when you are not cutting ribbons.
sam! hey podner! you caught me playing hooky--
floating around out here, playin' hell with them bass--play a little cards, play a little golf, drink some beer--
sounds great. where do i sign up?
i have not been out here for a while.
you go by your old house?
no.
just as well. the new people just painted it some god-awful color--
we found a body out by the army base yesterday. been there for a long time.
was it davy crockett or jim bowie?
you recall if charley wade was a mason?
charley? i believe he was. used to go for lodge meetings over to laredo. what is he got to do with your body?
all it was wearing was a big old masonic ring and a rio county sheriffs badge.
you do not remember anything else from that last night you saw him, do you?
i told the story enough times--hell, we were just in the car, he was stewing about the fight with buddy while we drove over to roderick bledsoe's--
bledso
he owned the colored roadhouse before big o--
he still living?
no. i think his widow's still in their place in darktown, though.  you think it is charley wade, huh?
forensics people are sure of it. you have any idea who might have put him there?
besides my father, i mean.
there is no call for that, sam. fella made himself a pile of enemies over the years.
and buddy was one of them.
we got that dedication tomorrow. this is a hell of a time to be draggin' up old business.
people have worked this whole big thing up around my father. if it is built on a crime, they deserve to know. now i understand why you might want to believe he could not do it.
and i understand why you might want to think he could.
so you knew this young man before?
from back in houston. we both come up on fifth street.
did you know he was going to be there last night?
if i had i would not have gone in.
and you and private graves--
we were just dancing--
we are not running a dating service here.
i know that, sergeant. we were just dancing. there was a bunch of us there. shadow just come down looking for trouble.
it is not our job to get involved in your personal life, but when it interferes with the training here--
I am sorry, sergeant major. there was not anything i could do. shadow gets crazy--
sergeant major? how is richie doing? private graves?
he will live.
he will be transferred to a military hospital as soon as he is stabilized--
he will probably be getting a medical discharge--
out of the army?
he is going to lose a lung. this is not good news for athena--
will this go on my record?
if the incident happened the way you say it did, there has not been an infraction.
thank you, sergeant major.
you are dismissed.
thank you, sergeant major.
you spoil 'em, cliff.
hey--she's in a tough situation. i cut her some slack--
but I am the one in charge of her sorry ass.
she is pulled herself out of a pretty rough neighborhood.
mrs. bledsoe?
that is me.
I am sheriff deeds--
sheriff deeds' dead, honey--you just sheriff junior.
yeah, that is the story of my life.
you ever play one of these?
I have seen 'em.
well, do not ever start up on 'em, cause once you do you can not stop. i tell myself I am going to play just three little games after breakfast, and here i sit with half the day gone.
you mind if i ask a few questions about your husband? roderick?
i will not say nothing bad about the man, but you can ask away.
he had the club out on the old trail road--
we run that twenty-odd years. give it over to otis payne in 1967. april.
so you must remember sheriff wade.
not if i can help it.
you had to deal with him in running the club.
them days, you deal with sheriff wade or you did not deal at all. first of the month, every month, he remind you of who you really workin' for.
he squeezed money out of you?
was not legal to sell liquor in a glass back then unless you was a club, see. roderick used to say, "buy yourself a drink, you get a free membership." but sheriff wade, he could shut you down anytime.
and my father?
sheriff buddy was a different story. long as roderick throw his weight the right way on election day, make sure all the colored get out to vote- we was called colored back then, if you was polite--maybe throw a barbecue for the right people now and then, things was peaceful. that sheriff wade, though, he took an awful big bite.
people did not complain?
not if they was colored or meskin. not if they wanted to keep breathin'.
do you remember the last time you saw him?
i know you?
name's otis.
otis what?
payne.
one of cleroe payne's boys?
uh-huh.
i sent your daddy to the farm once.
i know that.
why you think that was?
as i remember it was because he had a sassy mouth on him. must run in the family--you would not be runnin' numbers out of this club, now, would you, son?
runnin' numbers illegal.
runnin' numbers without i know about it is both illegal and unhealthy. you remember that.
how come you do not took familiar?
been away. up to houston.
houston, huh? i hear they let you boys run wild up there.
do not mind him, sheriff. boy's just a bit slow, is all. he do not mean nothin' by it--
that the problem, son?  you slow?
otis, apologize to the sheriff--
you got him too scared to peep, sheriff. maybe if you put that gun up--
you telling me what to do, roderick?
no, sheriff, I am just--
what is this i see? is that whiskey in them glasses on the bar? roderick, I am going to have to cite you for a violation of state law--
this is a club, sheriff--you been in here--
and people better clear out of here! now!
i did not understand the spot i was putting roderick in.
and that was the last time you saw him?
oh--i think he came in one more time with hollis and--naw, your daddy was not with them. made their monthly pickup. roderick was not in so i just kept my mouth good and shut and handed over that envelope.
that was the night he disappeared?
could of been. that was white people's business.
and when my father was sheriff?
what about it?
what was your deal with him?
buddy was more a part of the big picture--county political machine, chamber of commerce, zoning board if i kept those people happy, he was pretty much on my side.  whenever somebody thought--they start up another bar for the black  folks, they would be--how should i put this? they would be officially discouraged.
he ever accept cash for a favor?
if you had your way i would not have any friends.
oh, come on, amado--
just 'cause I am not like little miss honor roll here--
leave your sister out of it.
you and all of the teachers in this dump--your story's over, so you do not want anybody else to have fun.
you jerk--
I am not talking to you. you do not have any friends.
who would want to be friends with that bunch of pachuco wannabes?
i do not pretend i came over on the mayflower--
and those stupid girls who hang out with them--
just shut up.
joanie orozco's telling the whole school she is like desperately in love with santo guerra.
so?
it is pathetic. you can not be desperately in love when you are 14 years old.
not if you have half a brain in your head.
of course you can.
what?
it does not have anything to do with being smart.
otis payne was never embarrassed about a thing in his life.
dad--
dad--?
"hey, delmore, where is your daddy?"
big o was always there with a  smile or a loan or a free drink.
dad, can i talk to you about track?
dad, i talked to the track coach--
i thought we already had this out? next year, if your grades are high enough--
i have a b average.
how many b-average students do you think they take at west point?
these ones coming up are getting stupider every year.
maybe you are just getting less patient.
if they are going to survive here, they have to know how to work, elalco! adelante! los clientes esperan!
well, you hire illegals--
nobody is illegal in my cafe! they have got green cards, they have got relatives who were born here--if they only had a little common sense I would be very happy.
if you spent a little more time training them--
did you come here to tell me how to run my business?
no. i was wondering if you would like to take a trip down south with us. maybe see where you grew up--
why would i want to go there?
oh, come on--you must be curious how it is changed. amado is into this big tejano roots thing and I have never been further than ciudad leon--
you want to see mexicans, open your eyes and look around you. we are up to our ears in them.
mami, how old were you when my father--
he was killed.
right. when he was killed.
a little older than paloma is now.
how come you never got married again?
there must have been somebody.
i was too busy.
nobody's too busy.
maybe now. it was different back then. i had this place, i was doing all the shopping, all the cooking. what do i need some chulo with grease under his nails to drink up the profit?
thank you.
i do not mean fernando.
mami, the first time i brought him home, those were your exact words-- "some chulo with grease under his nails."
i never said that.
you made it pretty damn clear you thought he was nobody.
i felt that you could do better for yourself--
what? become a nun? you did not want me going out with anglos--
i never said that. it was just that boy--
"that boy"--mami, say his name for chrissakes!
now I am just as liberal as the next guy--
if the next guy's a redneck.
--but i got to say i think there is something to this cold climate business. i mean, you go to the beach- what do you do? drink a few beers, wait for a fish to flop up on the sand. can not build no civilization that way. you got a hard winter coming, though, you got to plan ahead, and that gives your cerebral cortex a workout.
good deal you were born down here, then.
you joke about it, sam, but we are in a state of crisis. the lines of demarcation has gotten fuzzy--to run a sucessfull civilization you got to have lines of demarcation between right and wrong, between this one and that one--your daddy understood that. he was like the whatchacallit-- the referee for this damn menudo we got down here. he understood how most people do not want their sugar and salt in the same jar.
you mixed drinks bad as you mix metaphors, you be out of a job.
take that pair over in the corner--
--warning. not 'cause he had it in for the colored
--but just as a kind of safety tip.
yeah. i bet he would.
old sam stood for somethin', you know? the day that man died they broke the goddamn mold.
so where does that put us?
well--i do not see what is changed. no - pda's, no necking on the obstacle course.
seriously.
seriously, i think we should get married.
we been through this before--
we should just do it.
and if i get a shot at a promotion somewhere--
you could take it--
it is up or out these days, cliff. say i get transferred to a different post--
I would quit the army for you, if it came to that.
man's going to retire in two years and he offer to quit. big goddamn deal.
sheriff--hi--this is sergeant--this is priscilla worth.
pleased to meet you.
sheriff deeds was in on our archeological find yesterday.
they stopped training infantry there in the late '50s. it was just a playground for the jackrabbits till they gave it to the county last year.
you know who it was they dug up?
es muy lindo, su coche--
en ingles enrique. this is the united states. we speak english.
is very beautiful, your car.
good night, enrique. she slides into the car--
buenas noches, senora cruz. enrique walks in the opposite direction--
black seminoles?
hobby of mine. got some artifacts, couple pieces one of your men out at the base made. free admission.
that where he was shot?
that is where he fell.
you get much of that in here?
it is a bar. people come together, drink, fall in love, fall out of love, air their grudges out--
deal drugs in the bathroom--
if i thought it would help I would put up a sign telling them not to. right under the one about the employees washing their hands.
this here's carolyn. honey, this is my son, delmore.
nice to meet you, ma'am.
so.
so tell me why i should not make this place off-limits.
this is an official visit, then--
i assume a lot of your business is from our people.
your boys out there cooped up together, need somewhere they can let the steam out. if they are black, there is not but one place in this town they feel welcome. been that way since before you were born.
we have an enlisted man's club at the post.
well, you are the man out there now, are not you? it is your call.
that is right.
i been hearing rumors about this new commander coming for a couple weeks now. boys say they heard he is a real hard case. spit-and-polish man. full- bird colonel name of payne, they say-- bet you never figured you end up back here.
the army hands you a command, you go wherever it is.
right.
i hear things, too.  people call you the mayor of darktown.
over the years, this is the one place that is always been there. i loan a little money out, settle some arguments. got a cot in the back- people get afraid to go home they can spend the night. there is not enough of us to run anything in this town- the white people are mostly out on the lake now and the mexicans hire each other. there is the holiness church and there is big o's place.
and people make their choice--
a lot of 'em choose both. there is not like a borderline between the good people and the bad people--you're not either on one side or the other--
i gonna meet that family of yours?
why would you want to do that?
because I am your father.
you will get official notification when i make my decision. he is out the door--otis pulls himself a beer as carolyn steps back out--
so that is him--
historic occasion, is not it?
seems like we have another one every week.
jorge and his chamber of commerce boys got to keep things hummin'--
we are building up tourism, sam--
people come here to catch bass and to get laid at the boy's town in cuidad leon--
sam--
you ought to put up a banner-- "frontera, texas: gateway to cut- rate pussy"--
that kind of talk does not help, sam.
rather have that than the ten-foot- high catfish statue--
i got eddie richter at the sentinel to kill that story.
the perdido thing?
he agreed it was not exactly news--
danny's going to be out for blood the next time.
which is why we need to talk to you about the new jail--just so we are all on the same page.
we do not need a new jail.
that is a matter of interpretation--
we are already renting cells to the feds for their overflow--
there was a mandate in the last election--
it would not happen to be your construction company going to get the bid on building this thing, would it, h.l. and jorge, you would not be thinking about a couple dozen new jobs to dangle in front of the voters--
dammit, sam, the people are concerned about crime--
we need a drug rehab program, we need a new elementary school--
there is not money allocated for that. but a jail--
look, I am not going to campaign against your deal here, but if anybody asks me, i got to tell them the truth. we-- don't--need--a new jail.
when we backed you--
when you backed me you needed somebody named deeds to bump the other fella out of office.  hey, folks--
never thought I would see the day a buddy of mine was dating a woman with three up and three down on her shoulder.
i think it is beyond what you would call dating.
you going to get married?
maybe.
you met her family? they gonna be cool about you being a white guy?
priscilla says they think any woman over 30 who is not married must be a lesbian. she figures they will be so relieved I am a man--
always heartwarming to see a prejudice defeated by a deeper prejudice.  but marriage, man--i did two tours in southeast asia and i was married for five years--i could not tell you which experience was worse.
hey, mikey--
i knew she was japanese going into it, but she did not tell me the ninja assassin part--
mikey--
her parents acted like i was gonna blow my nose on their curtains--
mikey--
if i stayed out past ten with the guys she would go into her madame butterfly routine--
mikey look at this--
what--it's a bullet. I am lousy with bullets here.
it is a .45.
yeah?
this is the stuff we picked up the other day, right? the rest of this is all .30 caliber--
they were using m-1's, yeah--
what is it doing on a rifle range?
field trip?
lunch hour. my next class is not till nine-thirty.
want to take a walk?
your mother still does not like me.
i can not name anybody she does like these days.
i see she built a place up here by the river.
a real palace. she rattles around alone in that thing--
she is done well for herself--on her own and all--
so she tells me three times a week.
i thought you got through that pretty well.
they cooked the whole thing up without asking me.
people liked him.
most people did, yeah.
i remember him watching me once. when i was little--before you and i--
i was on the playground with all the other kids, but i thought he was only looking at me. i was afraid he was going to arrest me--he had those eyes, you know--
yeah.
weird what you remember.
your boy, there--
amado.
nice-looking kid.
he hates me.
no--
with paloma, it is more like she pities and tolerates me- totally age- appropriate. but amado--he's--he's never been book-smart. had a hard time learning to read. me being a teacher and caring about those things is like an embarrassment--like a betrayal.
fernando did okay, and he dropped out--
fernando was not pissed off at everybody. he just wanted to fix their cars.
it might just be the age. i spent my first fifteen years trying to be just like buddy and the next fifteen trying to give him a heart attack.
so why did you come back here, sam?
got divorced, i was not going to work for my father-in-law anymore. the fellas down here said they would back me--
you do not want to be sheriff.
i got to admit it is not what i thought it would be. back when buddy had it-- hell, I am just a jailer. run a 60- room hotel with bars on the windows.
it can happen so sudden, can not it? being left out on your own.
you have got your mother, your kids--
they have got me. different thing.
i should get back.
pilar--
looks real bad if the teacher's late for class. it is really nice to talk with you, sam.
you going to tell her?
you going to tell him?
he does not need to know all my business.
he is going to find out.
so? what is he going to do, arrest us?
it is supposed to be some big sin, even if you love each other.
you believe that?
private johnson!
sergeant?
report to dr. innis at the clinic.
I am feeling okay--
I am very happy to hear that, private. now you go put some pee-pee in a cup for dr. innis and I will be feeling okay, too.
you are testing me?
you and one hundred nineteen other fortunate individuals. put it in gear.
yes, sergeant.
excellent performance, my friend. the judge was very impressed.
you do not need to cuff me.
you been talking so much trash today, you made us think you are a dangerous criminal. be a good boy, now--
you are the one who is a good boy. man say "fetch" and you fetch--
just doing my job.
white man just using you to keep the black man down.
this is not houston, my friend. we pretty much running things now. our good day has come.
you suckers have not had a good day since the alamo.
hey sam. sorry 'bout that.
what is up?
we had about a dozen wets come over just upriver. they ran into one of our posts--it was like a breakshot on a pool table, illegals runnin' every which way.
i have not seen anybody come by.
we will get 'em--  so you livin' out here now?
yeah. it is quiet--
i heard about that deal for your father--you must be real proud.
sure.
the stories people tell, he was a real colorful fella--
mom?
yeah?
you gonna stay out here?
for a while.
what is she singing about?
what do you think?
morning, sheriff.
hey, pete. how is it going?
time marches on.
how much you got left?
three months.
you stop growing that loco weed at your place, you would see a lot more daylight.
it was for personal consumption.
you are going to smoke an acre and a half of marijuana?
i got a bad stomach. it helps me digest.
your father never bothered me about it. leastways not till the drug people got on his back in the late '60s.
i thought he busted you a couple times.
different charge. i had a still. made my own mescal.
that is how i ruined my stomach.
I am surprised he bothered with it.
he was afraid i was going to poison somebody. your father tried to do good for people--
so I have heard--
and your mother was a saint. that summer i built the patio at your house? she made me lunch every day.
well, you were working there--
it could have just been a box lunch from the jail.
you built our patio while you  were on the county?
out in the fresh air, nice gringo lady making you pies--who's going to sit back in a little jail cell all day? sheriff buddy, man. como el no hay dos. and after that cabron charley wade--
I have heard wade was a bit tough on the mexicans--
he murdered eladio cruz. that tough enough for you?
murdered him?
chucho montoya saw it with his own eyes. shot him in cold blood.
you are out early.
yeah.
have not seen much of you at the jail lately.
i been working on a few things.
uh-huh.
I am going over to the other side.
the republicans?
no--to mexico. I have got to talk to somebody.
they got telephones.
gotta be in person.
oh.
sam? i--the committee--you know jorge and h.l. and all--they asked me--
they want you to stand for sheriff next election.
yeah.
you would do a good job.
how 'bout you?
do not know if I will still want it.
i did not want to be going around your back.
i appreciate you telling me.
you think we need a new jail?
well, it is a complicated issue--
I am only going to have you for two more years. if you decide not to go on to college--
i can not take any more school.
--you're going to be on your own.
so?
so I am worried about you. i do not want you to end up in jail like your friends.
they are not going to jail.
do not try to con me, amado. you knew how they got all those things.
just some rich anglo out on the lake. do not even live here all year.
that makes it okay?
they stole our land--
save your breath. that line does not cut it with me.
how do you think you are going to make a living?
i can fix cars.
you can fix old cars. mr. washburn told me that the cars they are making now are all computerized--
you think i can not learn that?
i think you can learn whatever you want to. i just do not see you doing it. if you want to settle for--
I am not settling for anything. i like cars, it is just not a move up the ladder to you, so you think it is a waste.
that is not true.
oh, come on--you and grandma think anybody who works with their hands is a peasant. when dad--
if you grew up to he anywhere near as good a man as your father was, i would be happy! i would be thrilled.
it is my life. if i want to fuck it up, that is my business.
i said pretty much the same thing to my mother when i was your age.
and what did she do?
two years at hard labor, our lady of perpetual help.
catholic school, nasty.
recycling, right? we invented that. the government does not have to tell people to do it.
you own this place?
this place, the one across the street, four other ones around ciudad leon-- soy el rey de las llantas. king of the tires. lots of your people rollin' back over that bridge on my rubber.
you lived in the states for a while?
fifteen years in el paso.
made some money, came back here--
something like that.
you ever know a fella named eladio cruz?
bird flying south-you think he sees that line? rattlesnake, javelina-- whatever you got--halfway across that line they do not start thinking different. so why should a man?
your government always been pretty happy to have that line. the question's just been where to draw it
my government can go fuck itself, and so can yours. I am talking about people here--men. mi amigo eladio cruz is giving some friends of his a lift in his camion one day--
hola, amgio. problemas de llanta? [hey, friend. tire problems?]
no hay de que. tengo otra. [no problem, I have got another.]
what is in the back?
not much, jefe. some watermelons.
i heard somebody been haulin' wets on this road.
i have not seen anybody doing that.
this same person been bragging all over the county how he do not have to cut that big gringo sheriff in on it-- he can run his own operation 'thout any help. como se llama, amigo?
eladio cruz.
you know this road got a bad reputation, eladio--
reputation?
bandidos, injuns--
there is many an unfortunate soul been ambushed out on this stretch. hope you are carrying some protection.
protection?
you carryin' a firearm, son?  do not lie to me now.
si--tengo escopeto--just a shotgun--
just a shotgun, huh? better let me take a look at that.
--but longhorns are hard to come by these days.
you sell much out here?
how am i going to sell things if nobody comes by? this stretch of road runs between nowheres and nothin' much.
hell of a spot to put a business.
but you do not see much competition, do you?
buffalo chips. fella in santa fe told me he sells these as fast as the buffalo can squeeze 'em out.
so when did buddy leave?
for frontera? hell, i can not remember dates no more. i do recall it was after an affair of the heart had gone sour on him. he almost took some poor fella's head off at the legion in arroyo grande, and figured it was time to move on.
you think he killed anybody in korea?
they do not hand those medals out for hidin'in your foxhole. would you buy this?
no--
me neither.
if he had not found that deputy job, i believe buddy might have gone down the other path, got into some serious trouble. settled him right down. that and your mother. 'course he had that other one later.
another woman?
your mother was not one to get chased off her patch. half the damn county knew and nobody thought the worse of her for seein' it through.
you know who it was?
the other one? hell, at my age, every time you learn a new name you got to forget an old one. your head's all crowded up--here it is--
i do not think you can take it personally--
I would like to see them spend a day pulling 14-year-olds off of each other--i should get combat pay--
i have new respect for some of my kids, meeting the parents they have been dealt--
steve called for you.
steve?
steve. board of education steve who likes you? he goes for us hot-blooded mexican girls, i can tell.
spanish, please. my mother would have a heart attack.
your mother's family is spanish?
sure, they go back to cortez. when he rode by, they were squatting in a hut cooking hamsters for dinner.
you got to be interested in somebody. all you do is work.
all my mother does is work. that is how you get to be spanish.
how 'bout the sheriff?
the sheriff.
the old-high-school-heartthrob sheriff. i thought you were crazy about each other. he is available, you are available--
I am unmarried. I am not available.
you told me one time it was true love.
we thought we were something, did not we?
yeah.
i look at my kids in school--tenth, eleventh graders. that is who we were. children.
yeah.
i mean what did we know about anything?
nothing.
when nando died--it was so sudden--i was kind of in shock for awhile. then i woke up and there was the whole rest of my life and i did not have any idea what to do with it.
you know the other day, you asked why i came back?
yeah?
i came back 'cause you were here.
wow.
yeah.
how come it feels the same?
i do not know. it just feels good. always did.
so what are we gonna do about this?
more, i hope.
how long have you lived here?
two years.
there is nothing on the walls. no pictures--
do not have kids. other pictures--i do not know--it's nothing i want to look back on.
like your story is over.
I have felt that way, yeah.
it isn't. not by a long shot. he holds her and they lie silently for a moment--
pilar--
yeah?
what was your father's name?
eladio. eladio. cruz.
she finally got in--
it is saturday.
you got in late last night.
yeah. i had uhm--school business.
can i get this?
nobody really wears that stuff, paloma.
i could name five girls at school who have one just like it--
enough with the clothes--
just 'cause you went to catholic school and wore a uniform.
i only went for my last two years.
how come?
oh, my mother wanted to keep me away from away from boys.
morning, hollis.
sam! quite a do the other day. it meant a lot to folks that you said something.
you thought any more about our murder?
we have a murder?
charley wade.
i wish i could tell you i remembered something new, but i can't.
i got an idea what happened.
do you?
i think somewhere between roderick bledsoe's club and his house, wade ran into buddy deeds. i think buddy put a bullet in him, waited for him to die, threw him in the trunk of the sheriff's car and drove him out by the army post, i think he buried him under four feet of sand and never looked back.
you lived in the man's house what-- seventeen, eighteen years? and you did not get to know him any better than that?
i got to go see somebody in san antonio today. your memory gets any better, I will be back tonight.
spanish in florida called him juan caballo. john horse.
he a black man or an indian?
both.
he was part of the seminole nation, got pushed down into the everglades in pioneer days. african people who run off from the slaveholders hooked up with them, married up, had children. when the spanish give up florida, the u.s.army come down to move all them indian peoples off to oklahoma--
the trail of tears.
they teaching that now?  good. only a couple of 'em held out--this man, john horse, and his friend wild cat, and a fella name of osceola. army put all of them in prison and osceola died, but them other two escaped and put together a fighting band and held out another ten, fifteen years. beat zach taylor and a thousand troops at lake okeechobee.
so they stayed in florida?
they got tired of fighting, went to the indian territories for a while. but the slave-raiders were on 'em even there, and one night they packed up and nearly the whole band rode down to mexico. crossed at eagle pass.
men worked for santa anna down there, waited out the civil war. the land was not much to feed people on, so in 1870 they come north and put up at fort duncan and the men joined up what was called the seminole negro indian scouts. best trackers either side of the border. bandits, rustlers, texas rednecks, kiowa, comanche--
they fought against the indians?
same as they done in mexico.
but they were indians themselves.
they were in the army. like your father.
you know who i am?
i got a pretty good guess.
that guy who got shot--
you did not go telling your father you were here?
are you kidding? and face a court- martial?
he is a pretty tough old man, huh?
no sports if i do not keep a b average, no tv on school nights, no pda's--
pda?
public display of affection. every time he moves up a rank, it is like he is got to tighten the screws a little more--
well--
i mean, just 'cause he didn't--you know--
did not have a father?
he is still pissed off about it.
when you are his age you will still be pissed off about him.
so how come you got into all this?
these are our people. there were paynes in florida, oklahoma, piedras negras--couple of 'em won the whatsit-- congressional medal of honor--
so I am part-indian?
by blood you are. but blood only means what you let it.
my father says the day you are  born you start from scratch, no breaks and no excuses, and you got to pull yourself up on your own.
well, he is living proof of that, son. living proof.
private johnson, are you unhappy in the army?
no, sir--
then how would you explain the fact that out of one hundred twenty people we tested, you are the only one who came up positive for drugs?
I am sorry, sir.
when you were given the opportunity to enlist, a kind of contract was agreed upon. i think the army has honored its part of that agreement.
yes, sir--
do you believe in what we are doing here, private johnson?
i-i can do the job, sir.
you do not sound too enthusiastic.
i am, sir.
what exactly do you think your job is, private?
follow orders. do whatever they say.
who is "they"?
the--the officers.
and that is the job? nothing about serving your country?
well?
you really want to know, sir?
please.
it is their country. this is one of the best deals they offer.
how do you think i got to be a colonel?
work hard, be good at your job. sir. do whatever they tell you.
do whatever they tell you--
i mean, follow orders, sir.
with your attitude, private, I am surprised you want to stay in the service.
i do, sir.
because it is a job?
outside it's--it's such a mess--it's--
chaos.
why do you think they let us in on the "deal"?
they got people to fight. arabs, yellow people, whatever. might as well use us.
do you think you have been discriminated against on this post?
no, sir. not at all.
any serious problems with your sergeant or your fellow soldiers?
no, sir. they all been real straight with me.
why do not you start with that?
yes, sir.
you are dismissed, private.
thank you, sir.
the longhorns gonna kick some serious butt this saturday, you just watch. we got a kid at tailback from down your way--outta el indio--
that is in maverick county.
oh. right. and you are in--?
rio. bunny right. this kid, hosea brown? does tire 40 in 3.4, soft hands, lateral movement--the whole package. only a sophomore--
you still going to all the home games?
well, daddy's got his box at the stadium, of course, and I will fly to the cowboy away games when they are in the conference. then there is the high school on friday' nights. west side got a boy 6'6", 310, moves like a cat. high school, we are talkin'. guess how much he can bench-press?
bunny, you--uhm--you on that same medication?
do i seem jumpy?
no, you look good. i was just wondering.
last year was awful rough--mama passing on and the whole business with o.j.--i mean it is not like it was don meredith or roger staubach or one of our own boys, but it really knocked me for a loop--
you look good--
--and that squeaker the aggies dropped to oklahoma-sonofabitch stepped in some lucky shit before he kicked that goal--
yeah, well--
--they had not pulled me off that woman i would have jerked a knot in her.
you were in a fight--
daddy calls it an "altercation." how you doing, sam? you look skinny.
same weight i always was.
you look awful good in that uniform, though.
best part of the job.
daddy hired a pinhead to take your job. he says so himself. says "even my son-in-law was better than this pinhead i got now".
bunny, is that stuff i left in the garage still there?
least he never called me that. with me, it was always "high-strung." "my bunny might have done something with her life, she was not so high-strung." or "tightly wound," that was another one. you seeing anyone?
no. you?
yeah. sort of. daddy rounds 'em up. you are not talking about money, their beady little eyes go dead.
you didn't--uhm--you did not have one of your fires, did you? the stuff i left in the garage--some of it was my father's--
you watch the draft this year? 'course you didn't, idiot question. they try to make it dramatic, like there is some big surprise who picks who in the first round? only they been working it over with their experts and their computers for months. doctor's reports, highlight reels, coaches' evaluations, psychological profiles--hell, i would not be surprised if they collected stool samples on these boys, have 'em analyzed. all this stuff to pick a football player for your squad. compared to that, what you know about the person you get married to do not amount to diddly, does it?
suppose not.
you kind of bought yourself a pig in a poke, did not you, sam? all that time we were first seeing each other you did not know i was tightly wound--
it was not just you, bunny.
no, it wasn't, was it? you did not exactly throw yourself into it heart and soul, did you?
350 pounds.
what?
this boy from west side, plays tackle both ways. bench-presses 350 pounds. you imagine having that much weight on top of you? pushing down? be hard to breathe. hard to swallow.
i think they have another fella there to keep it off your chest. a spotter.
"i only got my little girl now," he says, "she's my lifeline." then he tells me i can not be in the box anymore if i can not control myself. sonofabitch do not even watch the damn game, just sits there drinking with his bidness friends, look up at the tv now and then. i do better to sit in the cheap seats with some real football people.
you look good, bunny. it is nice to see you.
thanks. i like it when you say that, sam.
hey, it is the general.
colonel. is uhm--is otis in?
come on in--
if it is too late--
come on in.
you have been in this house for a while?
i been here with him eight years now. he built it when he was with leora.
i never met her.
there was a bunch of 'em you never met. me neither.
where did he get all this?
your mother got a brother--alphonse--
uncle al--
otis stood on good terms with the man. whenever you do something makes the news, he sends it on. when they made you general, otis just about drove away all our customers going on about it.
I am a colonel.
yeah, i know--man made me memorize the whole damn army chain of command before he would marry me. so this is a big deal, commander and  all?
it is a small post and they are phasing it out in two years, but i moved up in rank and--well, a command is a command.
otis went on like you were that guy who won the gulf war. colin whatsit.
my mother said he never asked about--
he never asked her.
senora cruz?
quien es? [who is it?]
soy yo, enrique! no tiene miedo-- [it's me, enrique. do not be afraid]
what are you doing out there? are you crazy?
hay pasado un accidente muy grave-- [there's been a bad accident--]
in english, enrique. we are in the united states--
i have some friends who have had a accident--
you have somebody else out there?
we was by the river? and i hear my friend callin' for help, and i look and she has falling in the water--
do not tell me lies, enrique. que paso?
we was crossin' the river--
enrique! quienes son estos? how could you bring them here?
they need help. jaime, anselma-- esta es mi jefa--
no! no puede hacer esto--[you can not do that--]
you think you are doing these people a favor? what are they going to do? either they get on welfare or they become criminals--
no es la verdad--[that is not true--]
this girl is a friend of yours?
es mi novia. [she's my girlfriend.]
i thought you were married!
i am marry to the cousin of a friend-- but only to be able to live here. this is the mother of my child--
this girl has a child?
we have a daughter.
tipico.
donde esta? estoy perdido--[where are you? I am lost--]
aqui! [here!]
no puedo ver la orilla! [i can not see the bank!]
aqui! venga por aqui! [over here! come this way!]
vi a rosaria arastrado para el corriente--[i saw rosaria taken away by the current--]
no te molestas. tenemos a ella. [don't worry. we have got her.]
como se llama? [what's your name?]
mercedes gonzales ruiz.
me llama eladio cruz--bienvenido a tejas. [welcome to texas.]
rapidamente! everybody in the world is going to see!
donde vamos? [where are we going?]
a casa de porfirio zayas. he used to be a doctor on the other side. gunshot wounds, fixing babies--if you can pay he can handle it.
senora, anything it costs, i can work--
do not worry about it. he owes me some favors.
homework?
i finished that. I am just messing around.
tanks, huh?
you got to be in the army, you might as well have something slick to drive.
so you are going into the army?
not that i do not think you would be good at it, but--you know--i would not be disappointed if you decided to do something else with your life.
you wouldn't?
no.
how is your room shaping up?
fine. I am pretty much moved in.
good.
are we going to ever see your father?
my father.
yeah. he lives here, right?
he does.
maybe we will clean that thing out back up, have a barbecue next weekend. we could invite him and his wife over.
cool.
fellas.
hey, sam.
open late.
I am not open. we were just talking.
hollis probably told you we found charley wade.
yeah. how about that? people start digging holes in this county, there is no telling what will come up.
imonna find out one way or the other.
your father had the finest sense of justice of any man i ever met--
yeah, and my mother was a saint. for fifteen years the whole damn town knew he had another woman on the side. stole ten thousand dollars to set her up in business. but hell, what is that? you got a problem? buddy'll fix it. facing some time in jail? buddy'll knock half of it off-- if you do what he says, when he says. you got some business that is not exactly legal? talk to buddy--
buddy deeds--
buddy deeds was a murderer.
the three of us cleaned up and took him to the post and put him under. can not say i was much help.
and the ten thousand?
widow's benefits. he figured it would make the disappearance look better, and that mexican gal was just scrapin' by after charley killed her man. they did not get hooked up till late--
do not think the rangers are likely to find out any more than they already have.
word gets out who that body was, people are gonna think buddy done it.
you gonna tell your mother we been seeing each other?
she will figure it out sooner or later. i do not have to ask permission anymore, if that is what you mean.
you have any idea when your father died? eladio?
couple months before i was born--
try a year and a half. he bands her an old snapshot. pilar looks at it--
I have never seen my mother in a bathing suit before.  did not know she owned one.
buddy bought the cafe for her with money he took from the county. pilar looks away, struggling not to cry--
they can not pull this on me. it is not fair--i do not believe this--
he paid the hospital bill when you were born. your mom always calls you "our beautiful daughter" in the letters she wrote to him.
from the first time i saw you at school--all those years we were married to other people i always felt like we were connected.
i remember thinking you were the one part of my life buddy did not have a piece of--
I am not having any more children. after amado, i had some complications-- i can not get pregnant again, if that is what the rule is about--
if i met you for the first time today, I would still want to be with you.
we start from scratch--
yeah--
everything that went before, all that stuff, that history--the hell with it, right?
