why are you doing this to me?
i know, maya, but you will understand when you see this man.  i really need your strength.
good seeing you again.
whish the circumstances were different.
your court order, dr. allen.
you know I am not comfortable with this.
but your patient is legally entitled to it.
this patient has been plagued with temporal lobe seizures.
it is the patient's request, doctor.
I am aware of that, but i do not think he is in any condition to make requests. I am trying to appeal to your more...logical self, father.  I am concerned about harm to my patient.
father jeremy and deacon john townsend of st. ursula's, and our associate, maya larkin.  secular assistants are permitted if regarded as qualified.  maya is eminently qualified.
i think i should join you.
-- you would not last five minutes.
just open the door, please.
yes.
and how would you describe him?
quiet.  real quiet...
and on the day of the murders, his state of mind?
seemed...on edge.
on the day of the murders  what did the defendant request?
he asked to go home early.  he said he was bothered by all the people who kept telling him what to do.
tell the jury how many people work in that office with you and mr. viznick.
just me.
mr. kelson, here's the stuff you wanted on pathological narcissism.
what about that psychic, what is his name, szabo?
he can see you thursday.
i think it is going to be a waste of time.
the police used him as a witness in this case.
I will be at bedford tonight, if you need me.
nice suit.
hey!  mr. big shot.
mike.  oh, the christening.  i meant to call...
yeah, right.  i do not know why i bothered inviting you guys.  i knew you would not show.
so, viznick's got a meet with his lawyer in the ayem.
really?  you know, seeing these guys away from the court, the facade slips. you catch things.
yeah, yeah.  I have heard it before.  just be sure you spell my name right.  nine o'clock?
what is this?
so you can see where you are going when you crawl up his asshole.
as a part of today's story on the trial of mass murderer george viznick, we welcome peter kelson, author of the current best-seller, vicious intent. thank you for joining us, peter.
thanks for having me, sally.
peter, you are now writing a book about the viznick case.  you seem to be making a career of studying sensational murderers.  i have to ask, how does it make you feel when you sit in courtrooms day after day, face to face with alleged killers?
well, long-term exposure to things like this tends to give you a sort of clinical understanding of the subject. after awhile, you begin to make friends with it, so to speak.
it is as if you are saying the closer you get to evil, the less evil it becomes.
no, the less mystifying.  good and evil are only illusions.  there is no such thing as evil with a capital "e."  that suggests some third party bad guy pulling all the strings.
you are referring to the defense's efforts to prove that george viznick is tormented by "demonic voices?"
there were not any voices.
not even from some mental illness, as the prosecution asserts?
as if there is another cause for little voices?  no, sally, viznick's a manipulator, he is clever, he has what i call malignant narcissism.
what do you mean by that?
well, we all have a degree of narcissism, sally, but a malignant narcissist is dangerously self-obsessed.
are you saying he is legally sane?
well, george viznick is in the grayest of gray areas in the sanity spectrum. viznick is not psychotic. he is simply unable to submit to any higher authority.
meaning, viznick's a man who answers to no one.  not even god.
right.  if you believe in god.  as a narcissist, viznick could not blame himself for the alleged murders.  he created the voices after the fact.  in order to avoid the simple truth that there is no outside force that guides george viznick and that george viznick needs to pay.
and what about you?  what about peter kelson?  where is your moral compass?
would you sign it for me?
of course.
i missed you.
do you think they have a room here?
how did your interview go?  I am sure you charmed the hell out of sally.
she is a talk show host.  they can not be charmed.  by definition.
how're you doing?  looking lovely as always.
you ready?
between your book sales and this tv thing, there is going to be no living with you.  and let me guess, you boiled god down to a conceit.
you know how i feel.  the world is random.  the only certainty i believe in is death.
given all that is happened, i understand. the world is random, but then there is faith.  where are you in death without it?
what a...jerk!
peter, are you okay?
it is great of you to let william and susan stay at the house until he gets on his feet.
it is susan's cooking, claire.  that is why uncle james lets them stay.
nonsense, it is all of our home.  so how is work treating you?
frustrating.  form over content. everything's so retro.
well, if peter here would hop off his laurels long enough to marry you...
...you wearing a watch, father?
yes.  it is exactly...
oh my god!
...as a narcissist, he could not blame himself.  he created the voices after the fact.
hello?
i know who he is.
maya?  what do you mean?
I will explain everything later.  can you meet me tonight?
you know, i made a reservation at marco's for peter's birthday dinner, but maybe you should cater it.
what time did you make it for?
eight.  that okay?
you never said anything to me...
it is probably trivial.
and what are you thinking we should do now?
I have filed a report with father frank.
a lot of good that will do.
we need all the help we can get.
I have dealt with these people before, maya.  they are not going to help us.
we will see father frank in the morning. there is nothing to be done until then.
alright, maya.  we will do it your way.
i do not mean to belittle you, but we have been through this before.  satan is not what you think he is.  satan is not some creature.
you were not there.  give me time to get some proof.
please, maya.  I am trying to get us into the next century and you insist on this medieval nonsense.
if you really believe in god, why is it so inconceivable that his enemy is just as real?
maya, for the last time, i will not tolerate these obsessions.
...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again.
father, I am right here.
...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again...
the doctor's concerned he may never come out of this dementia.
he will.  he has great faith.
but bad judgement.  and now you see how dangerous the consequences can be.
it is useless...look at him.
you can not back out on me now.  we need to be sure.
sure of what?  who cares if this guy is devoid of faith or sleeps over a pentacle?  results are what lareaux would want.
you do not want to face it.
look, john, I am facing it.
I am not waiting until it is too late.
is he going to be okay?
i hope so.
hi, I would like to make an appointment for peter kelson.
kelson, hold on a second...
i took one of those home pregnancy tests, but i do not want to tell him. I am rh negative.  my blood type is negative...  if he is rh positive, I will have to terminate.
how many weeks are you honey/
thirteen.  the last time, can you believe it?  this is how he says "goodbye?"
you need his blood-type.  like right away.
well i know he is come here before.
what is his name?
peter...peter kelson.
you just call?
i did not know what else to do...
two negatives always make a positive.
oh, thank you, thank you so much!
i plan to.  you want a tip?
lemme guess.  the lottery.
sometimes i can just feel the numbers.
you know what they say.  you have the same chance of winning whether you play or not.
you watch.  one day, I will hit the jackpot, get the big house, car, clothes.  I will have more money than god.
may i help you?
peter kelson?
yes... and you are?
i saw you on television yesterday.  you were brilliant.
thank you.  do you work in the building? you coming from the party?
you said that malignant narcissism was not evil.
not pure evil.  that is correct.
and also that...
listen, I am sorry, but I am running late.
that there is no such thing as evil with a capital "e."
not the most popular opinion, but yes.
what if i told you i was a malignant narcissist?
a narcissist does not admit it.  it is the extreme of self-denial.
and i also believe in god and the devil. in fact, i know they exist.
well, by saying that, you are acknowledging the existence of a higher power.  which, to a narcissist, is impossible.
i murdered my parents, mr. kelson.  and while they deserved it, i still went to confession the following sunday.
ooooooh-kayyyyyy.
in the end, the jury saw it my way.
well, then it all seems to be working out for you.  listen, ms...?
do you remember henry birdson?  the math professor who won the salwen medal, then went home and killed his family?
what is that got to do with you?
last week the catholic church certified him as genuinely possessed.  you realize how rarely they make that ruling?
i do.
an exorcism was just held for birdson. it failed.  disastrously.  which means there is still a demonic spirit present in his body.  i was wondering, perhaps you would like to go meet henry.  he is pretty amazing.
I will bet.
on television, you seemed so sure of yourself.  if you are really that confident, you would be willing to let someone prove you wrong?
the world would be so much simpler if it were all just about good and evil. unfortunately i find it much more slippery and elusive place.
well, i think it is very simple.  here's a tape of birdson's exorcism.  I will be at the public library.  tomorrow at 2... if you want to meet him.
shi... sorry, honey.  i was having the weirdest dream.
bad?
weird.  the book again.  sex spelled backwards...
i must really be slacking off.  hungry?
uh...sure...i...what?
sushi.
i can not believe it is already starting to get dark so early.
hmmm.
you know, there was a guy on the radio today trying to explain why we are losing daylight.  quarks and dark matter, things like that.  even how daylight savings has caught up with us over the last hundred years and our universal watch is just fast, you know?
peter, where are you?
sorry.  it is just...a strange woman waltzes into my office today.  tells me she murdered her parents and can prove satan exists.
did she waltz in or fly on little bat wings?
says she can get me in to see this killer.
now that you are on tv, you are a magnet for all the wackos out there.
oh, peter, you are going to pursue this.
no.  of course not.  mmmm.  anago.  my favorite.
george, come in.  what the hell happened to you?
it is nothing.
sure it is.  if the guards did this, we can file charges.
not the guards.  some of the prisoners are easily disturbed.
you have to tell me who did it.
i can take care of myself.
I am going to go make a stink.  sit tight. I will make sure you get a change of clothes.
seems george is not making too many friends in lockup.
yeah, look at that sweet face.  you would never guess he killed nine people.  I am going to get my smokes.  be right back.
you are too old to smoke.  will not be able to shoot hoops with your grandkid.
what is the matter with you?
he is looking right at me.
he could see me.
I will quit, maybe you should start.
hey, what are you doing here in the middle of the day?
forgot my car keys.  what are you doing on the fourth floor?
i spaced out.
well, it is a nice surprise.  should i hit the "stop" button?
so...what did you think of the tape.
i think you gave me the wrong one.
what do you mean?
it was blank.  nothing on it.  you gave me the wrong one.
you are sure?  there was nothing?
i cranked it all the way up.  nothing but hum.
so what did i miss?
you are right.  i must have made a mistake.
mr. kelson, what a pleasure to meet you. i have to say your instincts about the criminally insane are impeccable.  i am a fan.
quite a compliment coming from you, doctor.
when your secretary called, she made no mention of her coming, too.
my secretary?
you are aware that this woman was party to the so-called exorcism.
no, i wasn't, actually.
you should know i never felt mr. birdson needed anything but professional psychiatric care.  and then, minutes after they left, he suffered a stroke. he is comatose.  no brain wave activity at all.
so you do not believe his condition is the result of anything supernatural?
of course not.  they put him through severe mental stress.  causing this aneurysm.
dr. allen, could you please tell mr. kelson what you heard as you tried to enter mr. birdson's room?
i certainly hope you are not lending any credence to this.
what did you hear?
the patient was in great distress. naturally he was...yelling.
and was he in distress when you opened the door?  or was he sitting here, relaxed, at this table?
there is a medical explanation for everything that happened.
you heard voices, you know you did.
where do you get off pretending to be my secretary?
i had to.
and this is evil?  the guy had an aneurysm and now he is in a coma.
that is their explanation.  you might not believe me...
well, why should i?  alright, what is your name, where do you live, when did you kill your parents?
thanks for handling this.
sure thing.  look, I have got enough, between your preliminary statements and all the witness accounts.  you can go home.  gimme til morning.  find out who he is. until then, do not sweat it, huh?  just your random bad cheese trying to hole you.
thanks again for everything.
hey, do not thank me.  somebody up there likes you.
what?  that is horrible!
what happened?
yeah, i appreciate it.  thanks, josef.
when did they find her?
I am still shaking.
i can not believe will killed him.
thank god he did.
what is it?
something he said, just before...
he spoke to you?
yeah.  it did not make any sense.
listen to me, peter.  you can not let the ravings of a madman disturb you, okay?
you are right, but it is funny.  all my life i thought i was simply a man who did not believe in any of it.
no matter, my son, he believes in you.
but it is true.  i have no faith.  it is strange.  when that gun was pointed at my face tonight, i was surprised, but never frightened.  it was as if i knew nothing could possibly happen to me and...in that one moment i did not care about anything.  not eve my own life.
peter.  your life must matter to you because it matters to all of us who love you.
you know, i respect that you have such faith, james.  i do not understand it, but i want you to know that despite our differences, i admire you and i always will.
yeah.
it is detective smythe.
what is up?
how're you doin' today?
it is another day.  i think I am alright.
you got the right attitude, anyway, look, we gotta talk.
she came to me with a wild story about demonic possession.
she is got a juvenile record from new orleans.  parents died when she was 13.
parents died?
yeah, murder-suicide.
what happened?
mother killed the father, then killed herself.  crime of passion.
she told me she killed them.
not what the records show.  anyway, she was a runaway, arrests for vandalism, petty theft, drugs, the whole bit. parole records show she graduated from community college, moved into a retreat house, teaches some classes at the seminary school, has not been in any trouble since.
we hauled her in earlier but did not have anything hard to tie her to townsend. far as the priest goes, he will not be bothering you.  suffered a complete mental breakdown, during - get this - during an exorcism.
where is she now?
had to let her go.  i see you thinkin' there, superstar. don't.
we need to talk.
peter, please...
last night a guy named john townsend tried to shoot me and now i find out you knew him.  what the fuck is going on?
please, the children.
why did he try to kill me?
townsend believed, just as god became man in christ.  so satan will assume human form.  i believe it too.
and the point is?
at the exorcism, birdson boasted that satan is about to take over the body of a man.  you are that man, peter.
what?!?!
it is true.  birdson knew your name, he was writing it in numerical code.  it was not easy but i figured it out.  it spelled your name.
why did not birdson just say so?
if you are possessed, you can not reveal anything satan wants hidden.  unless you trick him.
trick him.
the good outwitting the bad.  it is like birdson had a split personality.
you should think about getting professional help.
you are already contaminated.  it is why you could not hear the tape.  there is probably a pentacle near your bed.  to sanctify you.
I am not going to be drawn into this.
i know this sounds crazy.  i understand. check your parents' blood types.  are you sure your parents are your birth parents?
my parents are dead.  do not even think of bringing them into this.
you are about to become the anti-christ who is born unholy and becomes the door to eternal suffering in this world.
if you or any of your lunatic friends ever come near me again...
I have had it.  townsend's dead.  the police are calling and now i see you having a scene in front of the children. I am sorry, maya, you have been with us for many years, but effective immediately, I am rescinding your right to live at the church.
father, i have nowhere else to stay.
you have a sister in new orleans.
I am going to have to get a restraining order.  what a nightmare.
i do not know.  in a way, I am glad it all happened.
you are glad somebody tried to kill me?
no, of course not, but i think now that this has happened, a lot of things can start to come out...
yeah, like...
like you need to admit that losing your parents when you were twelve was traumatic.
it is with me all the time, claire, i just do not like to talk about it.
well, it shattered your faith in everything.
I am just temporarily off my game.
you need to believe in something besides yourself.
i believe in you.
good of you to stop by.
we millionaires yet?
I would appreciate it if you would put that back.
you are the younger of two...
but she worships you.  your mother's dead but your father's alive.
nothing you could not find out from reading the papers.  and you are already wrong on one count.
viznick will get off and michael's got a crush on you.
you know what?  you can go.
suit yourself.  but does this mean anything to you?
you do know, do not you.  that these are also numbers.  greek numbers, 600, 60 and 6 - or 666.  the sign of the devil.
get out of here.
goodbye.
i do not understand what is going on.
there is no reason why you should.  this has been planned from your birth. you fit all the criteria that we know of.  never baptized, born of incest, devoid of faith...
but i was baptized.  and i certainly was not born of incest.
you were not baptized.  at least i do not believe it was christian.  your baptism was performed by your uncle, james mckenzie.
yes, i know.
the only baptism he ever performed in seven years as pastor at bedford.
so what?
seven years.  one baptism?  he is your mother's only brother
yes.
do you know your parents' blood types?
i looked at the coroner's report.  my father's o positive and my mother...a negative.
peter, your blood-type is ab negative. there is no way your birth father can be o positive.  you father is not who you think he is.
so...then the coroner's report is probably wrong.  i mean...this is ridiculous.  there is been a mistake.  i do not believe any of this.
then why are you here?
peter, i believe your baptism was perverted.  look at your certificate. your mother was the only witness to it. your blood-type does not match who you thought your father was.  peter...i'm sorry.
and if what you are saying is true, what would happen to me?
i do not know.  i do know that people who are possessed have to accept evil in some way.  i do not know if it works the same way in this instance.  i do not even know when it is going to happen.
when townsend tried to kill me, he said something strange like...  "the time of transformation is near..."
townsend, he had some of father's books.
what are you looking for exactly?
the books themselves or maybe some pages he ripped out.
we needed to know all we could.
I am going to look around.
nothing yet.
I will go outside and take a look in the garage.
get up!!
what is the...oh shit!
peter, let go of the chair!
what?
you okay?
when is your birthday?
what?
hang on, get it up, go on, higher.
your 33rd birthday.  the transformation will be a perversion of christ's rising from the dead.  townsend discovered it in one of lareaux's books.
it will happen at the exact time of your birth.
that can not be right.  my birthday's tomorrow.
he could not stop us and that is how he was punished.  peter, what time were you born?
i do not know.  probably have a copy of my birth certificate...my apartment.
there is nothing else here.
what is the bible for?
comfort.
are you alright?
sometimes, when i feel weak, i have these...visions.
what do you mean?
i see things.  my worst fears.  you need to know something, peter.  i was possessed once.  like birdson.  it took father lareaux six days to pull me out of it.
I am scared I am slipping back.
we are going to do this.
you have to say that.
that is true.
why did you lie to me about your parents' deaths?
i was desperate.  i knew you wrote about murders.  i needed a way in.
close call.  for the first time in a long time, it is really hitting me. life's tenuous.
i know it is.  right after my parents died, i went to the beach...  i was in the water.  everything was calm.  and then one of those really big waves hit me.  hard.  pulled me straight to the bottom.  i struggled and finally ran out of air.  if it had not been for my sister who pulled me out, i would have drowned. legally dead for a couple of minutes is what they told me.
no oxygen to the brain.
maybe that is my problem.
why did not you just go along with townsend.  get rid of me.  i would've...
until it happens, you are still a human being.
what about after?
only your body will remain.  i believe your soul will be at peace.  if we kill you, satan can not stay.
plenty of time.
what are these?
i do not know.  extra apartment keys. what is it matter?
maybe i should check lareaux's book. it is in the car.  be right back.  do not go anywhere.
sure.
there you are!  my god, darling, I have been so worried.  are you alright?
claire...
this is the person...you were talking about?
what are these?
i do not know.  what are they?
i found them in your file box.
must be a spare set.
i thought the spare set was in the kitchen drawer.
honey, you are exhausted.  do you want to lie down for a little while?
i found the pentacle.
she is been stalking you, peter.
so you are going to kill her?  put the gun down claire.
listen to me, i love you, peter, I am trying to protect you!
you really had me going, claire.  i was finally ready to propose to you.
we are still going to be together.
father!  thank god you are better!  i really need your help.  we have only got a few more hours.
do not worry...about the transformation, maya.
what do you mean "don't worry?"
well, in my prayers, i realized we have been fooling ourselves and probably... blown this all out of proportion.  god would never allow anything like that to happen.
so...we won?
yes.  we won, that is right.
we won because christ...triumphed over satan?
um hm.  that is right, maya.
so, if christ won, that means, what does that mean, father?  that satan...
would you like to rest, miette?  you must be exhausted.
so i guess satan lost.  satan is the weak one.
miette, come here and relax.
what can i do?
you have to be experienced to do this. just wait outside. otherwise, you risk killing him.
you will do it?
i do not have the experience.  father thomas should officiate.
father, please do not die.
...art sank, sun set, ark sank again...
I will be all right.  peter, at the very end, i think father was back.  i saw it in his eyes.
so, what does it mean.  the ark sank and the sun set?
he is been repeating that since birdson's exorcism.  i looked in every passage in the bible and there is nothing about an ark or a sunset that tells us anything.
what did he say to you in french?
that is his, i do not know, his 'grounding' phrase for me, "together, no matter what."
terrific.
he was trying to tell me something.
and his message was  "together, no matter what?"
book five, deuteronomy, chapter seven, verse five.  "but this shall you deal with them.  you shall break down their altars and burn their graven images with fire."
and what is that mean?
you fucking bastard.
do not you get it?  they had their 2,000 years.  now it is our turn.
so all that bullshit about god and faith.
it was perfect.  the harder i pushed, the more you pulled away.
you lied to me my whole life. everything you said, everything you did.
everything i did, i did for you.  i love you, peter.  think of it.  I am giving you a gift, absolute power and knowledge.
you raised me, like a son.
you are my son.  do not you see the opportunity that lies before you?
you killed my parents.
i had to.  there was no other way. their deaths were part of the greatest legacy i could have given you.
how much time do we have?
not a lot.
oh, peter.
it is me.  put the gun down.  maya...
