bob! i think i hear motors!
colonel, wait a minute, they may be here now!  say george, get down on that field and guide those planes in when they get here.
yes.
and be sure that none of the natives get in.
yes.
hello? colonel?
the power house - they have blown it up! the planes can not land without lights.
come on! we will burn the hangar. that will make light for them!
all right, go ahead!  we go on to the next plane. bring out any people that are left.
right, bob.
bob, these are all that are left.
come on! quick! this way.
where did you come from?
I am alexander p. lovett, sir.
why are not you registered through our office?
it would serve you right if you were left behind.
how could i know that a war was going to break out right over my head!  right over my head. oh, my word! i tell you, those chinese were pouncing on me from every direction. i had to get into these ridiculous clothes in order to escape.
where were you hiding?
hiding? oh, no. hunting - i was in the interior - hunting fossils. this morning i looked up suddenly
i know - and a war broke out right over your head.
the next time you are in wild country like this, keep in touch with the british consul.
aha - very good, freshie.[3] very good. you would better put his name on the list and make out a report later.
i beg your pardon, brother. what did you say you were hunting?
fossils.
fossils, huh?
I am a paleontologist.
a what?
a paleontologist.
oh, i see.
i have here a discovery that will startle the world. it is the vertebrae from the lumbar of a megatherium,[4] found in asia.
well, what do you know about that!
found in asia!
uh-huh.
when i get home i shall probably be knighted for it.
knighted! you do not say. do you mind if i take a look at it?
not at all.
sorry.
this is the only thing i was able to save when those heathens surrounded me.
uh-huh.
you see, from this vertebrae i shall be able to reconstruct the entire skeleton.
wait a minute, you expect to be knighted for finding that soupbone?
it was the vertebrae of a megatherium - found in asia.
yeah, i remember. you said that before.
sir henry derwent was knighted, and he never got beyond the mesozoic era.
yes, it just shows  i do not know why I am talking to you. i do not know you. who are you?
okay, brother.
do not call me brother.
okay, sister.  no offense. no offense!
i say, will you have a cigarette?
no.
say, you are an american, are not you?
say, listen - will you go and annoy the rest of your playmates? let me alone!
just what i needed too.
you?
just this once, bob. i feel like celebrating. just think of it, bob - a cruiser sent to shanghai just to take you back to england. you know what it means.  here you are. do not bother about those cables now. i want you to drink with me.  gentlemen, i give you robert conway - england's new foreign secretary.
hurray!
how I am going to bask in reflected glory!  people are going to point to me and say, "there goes george conway - brother of the foreign secretary."
do not talk nonsense. give me the bottle.
hello, freshie. did you make that report out yet?
yes, bob.
did you say we saved ninety white people?
yes.
hurray for us. did you say that we left ten thousand natives down there to be annihilated? no, you would not say that. they do not count.
you would better try to get some sleep, bob.
just you wait until I am foreign secretary. can not you just see me, freshie, with all those other shrewd, little foreign secretaries?  you see, the trick is to see who can out-talk the other. everybody wants something for nothing, and if you can not get it with smooth talk, you send an army in. I am going to fool them, freshie. I am not going to have an army. I am going to disband mine. I am going to sink my battleships - I am going to destroy every piece of warcraft. then when the enemy approaches we will say, "come in, gentlemen - what can we do for you?"  so then the poor enemy soldiers will stop and think. and what will they think, freshie? they will think to themselves - "something's wrong here. we have been duped. this is not according to form. these people seem to be quite friendly, and why should we shoot them?" then they will lay down their arms. you see how simple the whole thing is? centuries of tradition kicked right in the pants  and I will be slapped straight into the nearest insane asylum.
do not worry, george. nothing's going to happen. I will fall right into line. I will be the good little boy that everybody wants me to be. I will be the best little foreign secretary we ever had, just because i have not the nerve to be anything else.
do try to sleep, bob.
huh? oh, sure, freshie. good thing, sleep.
good morning, lovey.
i beg your pardon.
i say, good morning, lovey.
good morning
i did not care for 'sister' last night, and i do not like 'lovey' this morning. my name is lovett - alexander, p.
i see.
i see.
well, it is a good morning, anyway.
I am never conversational before i coffee.
wait a minute. is it a good morning? say, we are supposed to be traveling east, are not we?
why, of course. yes.
well, it looks to me as if we are traveling west.
that is ridiculous.
is it?
it certainly is.
look here
any child knows how to tell direction. any child. i do not care where the child is - in the air, on the earth, or in the sea. if you face the rising sun, your right hand is the north, and your left hand is the south
i always get it twisted because I am left-handed.
oh, really?
yes.
well, you just reverse it. your left hand is  what difference does it make what 'hand' you are? the north is the north!
uh-huh. all i know is - the sun rises in the east, and we are going away from it.
now you are irritating and absurd!
could not you arrange to make a little less noise?
i tell you, we are going west, and shanghai is east of here!
be quiet! fenner's the best pilot in china. he knows what he is doing.
it is fenner.
he might have lost his way.
of course. that is what i told them last night. you can not expect a man to sail around in the dark.[5] during this george has been looking around - he rises.
oh, stop it!
the bloke up there looks a chinese, or a mongolian, or something.
charming chap.
nice puss to meet in a dark alley.
well, that is that, i guess.
wonder what is happened to fenner.
yes. and who is he ? how did he get there?
do you suppose we stopped someplace during the night and changed pilots?
no. that is not possible! if we had landed, we all would have been awakened.
of course. we never left the air. i know - i did not sleep the whole night long.
that fellow got on at baskul.
what is he doing? where is he taking us? he may be a maniac for all we know.
george, what are you going to do?
I am going to drag him out and force him to tell us what his game is.
good.
what if he refuses?
we will smash his face in. that is what we will do.
brilliant!  can anyone here fly a plane?
i guess we are in for it.
in for what?
i do not know. he must have had some purpose in taking the plane away from fenner.  when he lands, we will find out.
you mean to tell me you are not going to do anything until we land?
what do you suggest?
why, you - you look here - he may dash us to pieces!
it might afford you a great deal of relief.  now gentlemen, I am going back to sleep. oh, and i was having such a peaceful dream.  as soon as he lands, let me know.
what are these people?
i do not know. i can not get the dialect.
imagine having all that fuel there, waiting for us!  george, something tells me our journey is just beginning.
where are we going? huh?
huh? i give it up. but this not knowing where you are going is exciting anyway.
well, mr. conway, for a man who is supposed to be a leader, your do- nothing attitude is very disappointing.
what do you want him to do?
i do not know. I am a paleontologist, not a foreign secretary.
oh george, come on.
it is not knowing that is so awful, bob. not knowing where you are going, or why, or what is waiting when you get there.
what is it? has he fainted?
it looks like it.  smell those fumes?
he is dead.
dead?
what is it?
see that spot?
yes.
that is where we were this morning. he had it marked. right on the border of tibet. here's where civilization ends. we must be a thousand miles beyond it - just a blank on the map.
what is it mean?
it means we are in unexplored country - country nobody ever reached.
what are we going to do?
well, there is nothing we can do until the morning.
left us here to rot. that is what they have done. heroes of the newspapers!
all right, all right. keep quiet.
what is it?
mountain grass. it is good, too. here, have some. I have read of people lasting thirty days on this stuff.
cave, eh? where?
over by that hill.
hey - look!
look, bob!
where are they? do you see them?
yes!
do you think they are cannibals?
why, he is speaking english.
english!
and mine's conway.
how do you do?
you have no idea, sir, how unexpected and very welcome you are. my friends and i - and the lady in the plane - left baskul night before last for shanghai, but we suddenly found ourselves traveling in the opposite direction
at the mercy of a mad pilot.
we would be eternally grateful if you
where is your mad pilot?
he must have had a heart attack, or perhaps the fumes. when the plane landed he was dead.
we were just going to bury him when you came along.
pardon me
you will need suitable clothes for the journey. it is not particularly far, but quite difficult.
thank you.
mr. barnard, i do not like this place. i definitely do not like this place.
will you stop squawking!
look at me. look at what they gave me to wear.
you never looked better in your life. as soon as our clothes are cleaned, they are going to give them back to us, lovey.
something tells me this means food. come on!
i just feel as though I am being made ready for the executioner.
yeah? if this be execution, lead me to it.
that is what they do with cattle just before the slaughter. fatten them.
uh-huh. you are a scream, lovey.
please do not call me lovey.
some layout they got here. did you get a load of the rooms? you could not do better at the ritz.
all the conveniences for the condemned, if you ask me.
do not mind lovey. he is got the misery.
mr. conway, i do not like this place. i do not like it. it is too mysterious.
it is better than freezing to death down below, is not it?
I will say.
what do you want?
I have offered you some warm broth. i thought perhaps-
you get out of here! if any of you men think you can come busting in here-
please calm yourself. you will soon be well if you do.
i do not need any advice from you! get me a doctor!
I am sorry, but we have no doctors here.
no doctors?  that is fine. that is just fine.
please let me help you.
sure, you can help me! you can help me jump over that cliff! I have been looking and looking at the bottom of that mountain, but i have not got the nerve to jump!
you should not be looking at the bottom of the mountain. why do not you try looking up at the top sometimes?
do not preach that cheap, second- hand stuff to me!  go on, beat it. beat it!
where is the girl? miss stone.
she is remaining in her room. she is not feeling very well.  now please go on without me. i eat very little.
well, there is certainly nothing wrong with that meal!
thank you.
and the wine - excellent.
I am glad you like it. it is made right here in the valley.
now that dinner is over, if you will excuse us, we are very anxious to discuss ways and means of getting back home.
the first thing we want to do is to cable the foreign office. all of england is waiting to hear about my brother. there is a cruiser at shanghai ready to take him back.
not even a radio?
it is always been a source of deep regret, but the mountains surrounding us have made reception almost impossible.
in that event, we better make arrangements to get some porters immediately. some means to get us back to civilization.
are you so certain you are away from it?
as far away as i ever want to be.
oh, dear.
of course, the porters will be very well paid - that is, within reason.
I am afraid that would not help. you see, we have no porters here.
no porters here!!
no.
what about those men we met this morning?
yes. those are our own people. they never venture beyond the point where you were met this morning. it is much too hazardous.
oh, yes. there is a tribe of porters some five hundred miles from here. that is our only contact with the outside world. every now and again, depending upon favorable weather of course, they make the journey.
how can we get in touch with them?
in that respect, you are exceedingly fortunate. we are expecting a shipment from them almost any time now
what exactly do you mean by "almost any time now"?
well, we have been expecting this particular shipment for the past two years.
two years!?
yes.
that is what i mean - mysterious. mr. conway, i do not like that man. he is too vague.
we did not get much information out of him, did we bob?
that is what i say. what do you say to a rubber of bridge? i saw some cards in the other room.
not for me, thanks. no, I am too weary.
how about you lovey? come on. let's you and i play a game of honeymoon bridge.
I am thinking.
thinking? what about some double solitaire?
as a matter of fact, I am very good at double solitaire.
no kidding?
yes.
then I am your man.  come on, toots.
hello, george.  cigarette?
thanks.  i suppose all this comes under the heading of adventure.
we have had plenty of it the last few days.
it is far from over, from what i can see. this place gives me the creeps, hidden away like this - no contact with civilization. bob, you do not seem concerned at all.
oh, I am feeling far too peaceful to be concerned about anything.  i think I am going to like it here.
you talk as though you intend on staying.
something happened to me, when we arrived here, george, that - well - did you ever go to a totally strange place, and feel certain that you have been there before?
what are you talking about?
i do not know.
you are a strange bird. no wonder gainsford calls you the man who always wanted to see what was on the other side of the hill.
do not you ever want to see what is on the other side of the hill?
what could there be except just another hill? in any event, I am not curious. at the moment, it seems to me we should be concerned about getting home. I would give anything to be in london right now.
of course you would. if ever we get out of this place, the thing for you to do is to take that job with helen's father.
what do you mean if we should get out?
did i say "if"?
that is what you said.
well - i mean
what is on your mind, bob? you talk as though we are going to have trouble getting out of here.
george, I have been putting things together. do you notice the resemblance between those natives and the pilot? and why did those clothes materialize so conveniently when they met us at the plane? chang himself just said that they never venture beyond that point. what brought them there? unless it was to meet us?
chang's first question was about the pilot.
uh-huh.
there must be some connection between the plane and this place. they must have deliberately brought us here. why, bob? what reason could they have for doing a thing like that?
that is what is on the other side of the hill.
it is three thousand feet, practically straight down to the floor of the valley. the valley of the blue moon, as we call it. there are over two thousand people in the valley besides those here in shangri-la.
who and what is shangri-la? you?
goodness, no!
so there are others?
oh, yes.
who, for instance?
in time you will meet them all.
for a man who talks a great deal, it is amazing how unenlightening you can be.
there are some things, my dear conway, i deeply regret i may not discuss.
you know, that is the fourth time you have said that today. you should have a record made of it.
shall we go inside? i should so like to show you some of our rare treasures.
excuse me
please do not go.
by the way, what religion do you follow here?
we follow many.
to put it simply, i should say that our general belief was in moderation. we preach the virtue of avoiding excesses of every kind, even including  the excess of virtue itself.
that is intelligent.
we find, in the valley, it makes for better happiness among the natives. we rule with moderate strictness and in return we are satisfied with moderate obedience. as a result, our people are moderately honest and moderately chaste and somewhat more than moderately happy.
how about law and order? you have no soldiers or police?
oh, good heavens, no!
how do you deal with incorrigibles? criminals?
why, we have no crime here. what makes a criminal?  lack, usually. avariciousness, envy, the desire to possess something owned by another. there can be no crime where there is a sufficiency of everything.
you have no disputes over women?
only very rarely. you see, it would not be considered good manners to take a woman that another man wanted.
suppose somebody wanted her so badly that he did not give a hang if it was good manners or not?
well, in that event, it would be good manners on the part of the other man to let him have her.
that is very convenient. i think I would like that.
you would be surprised, my dear conway, how a little courtesy all around helps to smooth out the most complicated problems.
but mr. chang, all these things - books, instruments, sculpture - do you mean to say they were all brought in over those mountains by porters?
they were.
well, it must have taken
centuries.
centuries! where did you get the money to pay for all those treasures?
of course we have no money as you know it. we do not buy or sell or seek personal fortunes because, well, because there is no uncertain future here for which to accumulate it.
that would suit me perfectly. I am always broke. how did you pay for them?
our valley is very rich in a metal called gold, which fortunately for us is valued very highly in the outside world. so we merely . . .
buy and sell?
buy and - sell? no, no, pardon me, exchange .
i see. gold for ideas. you know mr. chang, there is something so simple and naive about all of this that i suspect there has been a shrewd, guiding intelligence somewhere. whose idea was it? how did it all start?
that, my dear conway, is the story of a remarkable man.
who?
a belgian priest by the name of father perrault, the first european to find this place, and a very great man indeed. he is responsible for everything you see here. he built shangri-la, taught our natives, and began our collection of art. in fact, shangri-la is father perrault.
when was all this?
oh, let me see - way back in 1713, i think it was, that father perrault stumbled into the valley, half frozen to death. it was typical of the man that, one leg being frozen, and of course there being no doctors here, he amputated the leg himself.
he amputated his own leg?
yes. oddly enough, later, when he had learned to understand their language, the natives told him he could have saved his leg. it would have healed without amputation.
well, they did not actually mean that.
yes, yes. they were very sincere about it too. you see, a perfect body in perfect health is the rule here. they have never known anything different. so what was true for them they thought would naturally be true for anyone else living here.
well, is it?
rather astonishingly so, yes. and particularly so in the case of father perrault himself. do you know when he and the natives were finished building shangri-la, he was 108 years old and still very active, in spite of only having one leg?
108 and still active?
you are startled?
oh, no. just a little bowled over, that is all.
forgive me. i should have told you it is quite common here to live to a very ripe old age. climate, diet, mountain water, you might say. but we like to believe it is the absence of struggle in the way we live. in your countries, on the other hand, how often do you hear the expression, "he worried himself to death?" or, "this thing or that killed him?"
very often.
and very true. your lives are therefore, as a rule, shorter, not so much by natural death as by indirect suicide.
that is all very fine if it works out. a little amazing, of course.
why, mr. conway, you surprise me!
i surprise you? now that is news.
i mean, your amazement. i could have understood it in any of your companions, but you - who have dreamed and written so much about better worlds. or is it that you fail to recognize one of your own dreams when you see it?
mr. chang, if you do not mind, i think I will go on being amazed - in moderation, of course.
then everything is quite all right, is not it?
well - i heard that if you want a man's wife, she is yours, if he is got any manners.
nothing about the porters yet?
porters?
good heavens, bob, we have been here two weeks and we have not found out a thing.
well, we have not been murdered in our beds yet, george, have we?
I am afraid the porters are just a myth.  i guess we never will know why we are here, or how long we are going to be held prisoners.
shhh!
hey, hurry up, you slow-pokes - I am starved!
please! please! do not wait for me! i eat so very little.
hey, what is happened to you?
nothing. why?
why, you look beautiful.
and say, honey, you look a million per cent better. wholesome, kind of - and clean. you take a tip from me, and do not you ever put that stuff on your face again. why, it is like hiding behind a mask.
ha, ha - who are you to be talking about a mask? what do you mean? you have been wearing a mask ever since we met you.
have i?
it is very strange, you know. you have never told us anything about yourself. who are you, anyway? why do not you take your mask off for once!
yes. unbosom yourself, mr. hyde.[11]
all right, i will! I will let my hair down! why not? it can not make any real difference now.  hey lovey, were you ever chased by the police?
certainly not.
believe me, it is no fun. when you fellas picked me up at baskul, they would been on my tail for a year.
the police?
uh-huh.  did you ever hear of chalmers bryant?
chalmers bryant!
bryant's utilities - that is me.
that is too bad. i got a half million shares. my whole foundation! and now look at me!
colossal nerve you have sitting there and talking about it so calmly - you, the swindler of thousands of people
you know, that is what makes the whole thing so funny. a guy like me starts out in life as a plumber - an ordinary, everyday, slew-footed plumber - and by the use of a little brains, mind you, he builds up a gigantic institution, employs thousands of people, becomes a great civic leader. and then the crash comes - and overnight he is the biggest crook the country ever had.
you are a thief, sir, and a swindler, and i, for one, will be only too glad to turn you over to the police when we get back.
george, what do you think you are doing?
let me go, bob!
george, come back!
chang! chang! chang!
let me up! let me up!
all right. sorry, george.
you know, it is very, very strange, but when you saw me in the corridor, i was actually on my way to you. i bring the most amazing news.  the high lama wishes to see you, mr. conway.
the high lama! who in blazes is he?!
yeah. i though you ran this joint.
mr. chang - high lamas or low lamas, do we get the porters?
the high lama is the only one from whom any information can come.
do not believe him, bob. he is just trying to get out.
yes.
sounds like a stall to me.
one moment. you say the high lama is the only one who can give us any information?
the only one.
and he can arrange for the porters to take us back?
the high lama arranges everything, mr. conway.
well, then he is the man i want to see.  will you come along?
sit here, near me. i am an old man and can do no one any harm.
are you the high lama?
yes.
i trust you have been comfortable at shangri-la, since your arrival.
personally, I have enjoyed your community very much. but my friends do not care for this mystery. they are determined to leave as soon as
it is astonishing - and incredible, but
what is it, my son?
you are the man chang told me about! you are the first - who - two hundred years ago  you are still alive, father perrault!
sit down, my son.  you may not know it, but I have been an admirer of yours for a great many years.
that conway seemed to belong here. in fact, it was suggested that someone be sent to bring him here.
that i be brought here? who had that brilliant idea?
sondra bizet.
oh, the girl at the piano?
yes. she has read your books and has a profound admiration for you, as have we all.
of course i have suspected that our being here is no accident. furthermore, i have a feeling that we are never supposed to leave. but that, for the moment, does not concern me greatly. I will meet that when it comes. what particularly interests me at present is, why was i brought here? what possible use can i be to an already thriving community?
we need men like you here, to be sure that our community will continue to thrive. in return for which, shangri-la has much to give you. you are still, by the world's standards, a youngish man. yet in the normal course of existence, you can expect twenty or thirty years of gradually diminishing activity. here, however, in shangri- la, by our standards your life has just begun, and may go on and on.
but to be candid, father, a prolonged future does not excite me. it would have to have a point. I have sometimes doubted whether life itself has any. and if that is so, then long life must be even more pointless. no, I would need a much more definite reason for going on and on.
we have reason. it is the entire meaning and purpose of shangri-la. it came to me in a vision, long, long, ago. i saw all the nations strengthening, not in wisdom, but in the vulgar passions and the will to destroy. i saw their machine power multiply until a single weaponed man might match a whole army. i foresaw a time when man, exulting in the technique of murder, would rage so hotly over the world that every book, every treasure, would be doomed to destruction. this vision was so vivid and so moving that i determined to gather together all the things of beauty and culture that i could and preserve them here against the doom toward which the world is rushing.  look at the world today! is there anything more pitiful?  what madness there is, what blindness, what unintelligent leadership! a scurrying mass of bewildered humanity crashing headlong against each other, propelled by an orgy of greed and brutality. the time must come, my friend, when this orgy will spend itself, when brutality and the lust for power must perish by its own sword. against that time is why i avoided death and am here, and why you were brought here. for when that day comes, the world must begin to look for a new life. and it is our hope that they may find it here. for here we shall be with their books and their music and a way of life based on one simple rule: be kind.  when that day comes, it is our hope that the brotherly love of shangri-la will spread throughout the world.  yes, my son, when the strong have devoured each other, the christian ethic may at last be fulfilled, and the meek shall inherit the earth.
what about the porters?
porters?
did not you find out anything about the porters?
why - I am sorry - but i
for heaven's sake, bob, what is the matter with you? you went out there for the purpose of
george. george - do you mind? I am sorry, but i can not talk about it tonight.
oh, please. i hope you are not going to run away this time.
my name's sondra.
hope you will forgive me for
you know, each time i see you, i hear that music. what is it?
oh, you mean my pigeons.
was this your idea?
yes. hold this pigeon.
you suggested my being brought here, did not you? what gave you the idea I would fit in?
that was easy. i read your books.
oh, you have read my books. you do more things! what have my books got to do with it?
i saw a man whose life was empty.
a man whose life was empty!
oh, i know. it was full of this and full of that. but you were accomplishing nothing. you were going nowhere, and you knew it.
as a matter of fact, all i saw was a little boy whistling in the dark.
a little boy whistling in the dark!? do you realize that there is a british cruiser waiting at shanghai, smoke pouring out of its funnels, tugging at its moorings, waiting to take mr. conway back to london? do you know that at this minute there are headlines shrieking all over the world the news that conway is missing? does that look like a man whose life is empty?
yes.
you are absolutely right. and i had to come all the way to a pigeon house in shangri-la to find the only other person in the world who knew it. may i congratulate you?
i really only brought you here to show you my pigeons!
do not worry about the pigeons. from now on, you can put flutes on my tail and bells on my feet!
there are so many questions I would like to ask you, i hardly know where to begin.
I will help you. to begin with, you would like to know what I am doing here. whether i was born here.
thank you.
well, i was almost born here. it took place in that wild country beyond the pass. my father and mother were in a party of explorers who got lost and wandered around for a year. when chang found us, only father and i were alive. but he was too weak to climb the pass. he died on the way. i was brought up here by father perrault himself.
father perrault! i envy you. i talked to him last night.
yes, i know.
father perrault. of course i can not quite get used to this age thing.
I am thirty.
oh, you are going to make life very simple.
what is?
all of it. father perrault and his magnificent history. this place, hidden away from the rest of the world, with its glorious concepts, and now you come along and confuse me entirely.
I am sorry. i thought i was to be the light. but why do i confuse you? am i so strange?
on the contrary, you are not strange. and that in itself is confusing. i have the same idea about shangri- la. the sense that I have been here before, that i belong here.
I am so glad.
i can not quite explain it, but everything is somehow familiar. the very air that i breathe. the lamasery, with its feet rooted in the good earth of this fertile valley, while its head explores the eternal. all the beautiful things i see, these cherry blossoms, you - all somehow familiar.  I have been kidnapped and brought here against my will. a crime, a great crime, yet i accept it amiably, with the same warm amiability one tolerates only from a very dear and close friend. why? can you tell me why?
perhaps because you have always been a part of shangri-la without knowing it.
i wonder.
I am sure of it. just as I am sure there is a wish for shangri-la in everyone's heart. i have never seen the outside world. but i understand there are millions and millions of people who are supposed to be mean and greedy. yet i just know that secretly they are all hoping to find a garden spot where there is peace and security, where there is beauty and comfort, where they would not have to be mean and greedy. oh, i just wish the whole world might come to this valley.
then it would not be a garden spot for long.
i do not know why i associate with you, mr. barnard - or mr. chalmers bryant - or mr. embezzler - or whatever your name may be.
just call me barney.
barney? why should i? never! we have nothing in common. hmmpf, barney! what effrontery!
okay, lovey.
and this trip to the valley. i can not imagine why I would allow you to drag me down here. why, we do not know anything about these people. we are not even armed!
they are very nice people - except that they have got horns.
horns?
yeah. you know.
horns? what kind of horns?
hey lovey, come here! lovey, i asked for a glass of wine and look what i got. come on, sit down.
so that is where you are. i might of known it. no wonder you could not hear me.
you were asked to have a glass of wine. sit down!
and be poisoned out here in the open?
certainly not!
there you are!
this does not obligate me in any way.
then the bears came right into the bedroom and the little baby bear said, "oh, somebody is been sleeping in my bed." and then the mama bear said, "oh dear, somebody is been sleeping in my bed!" and then the big papa bear, he roared, "and somebody is been sleeping in my bed!" well, you have to admit the poor little bears were in a quandary!
I am going to sleep in my bed. come on, lovey!
they were in a quandary, and
come on, lovey.
why? why 'come on' all the time? what is the matter?  are you going to be a fuss budget all your life? here, drink it up! are not you having any fun? where was i?
in a quandary.
you promised to come for tea yesterday. i waited for so long.
I am sorry.  i have not even got any cigarettes left!
I will make some for you!  you will come today?
perhaps.
please say you will. the days are so very long and lonely without you.  please . . .
all right, I will be there.
thank you.
you will tell me some of the things i want to know, will not you?  you will tell me who runs this place. and why we were kidnapped. and what they are going to do with us!
beautiful! I am waiting for the bump.
bump?
when the plane lands at shangri-la and wakes us all up.
ouch!
you see, it is not a dream.
you know, sometimes i think that it is the other that is the dream. the outside world. have you never wanted to go there?
goodness, no. from what you tell me about it, it certainly does not sound very attractive.
it is not so bad, really. some phases are a little sordid, of course. that is only to be expected.
why?
oh, the usual reasons. a world full of people struggling for existence.
struggling, why?
well, everybody naturally wants to make a place for himself, accumulate a nest egg, and so on.
why?
you know, if you keep on asking that, we are not going to get anywhere. and do not ask me why.
i was just going to.
it is the most annoying word in the english language. did you ever hear a child torture his parent with it?  mother's little darling musn't stick her fingers in the salad bowl. why? because it is not lady- like to do that. why? because that is what forks are made for, darling.
why, mother?
because mother read it in a book somewhere, and if mother's little darling does not take her fingers out of the salad bowl this instant, mother's going to wring her little neck.
would you like to wring my little neck?
I would love it!
why?
I have thought about it for years.  i knew you would come. and i knew if you did - you would never leave.  am i forgiven for sending for you?
forgiven.  you know, when we were on that plane, i was fascinated by the way its shadow followed it. that silly shadow racing along over mountains and valleys, covering ten times the distance of the plane. it was always there to greet us with outstretched arms when we landed. and I have been thinking that somehow you are that plane, and I am that silly shadow. that all my life I have been rushing up and down hills, leaping rivers, crashing over obstacles, never dreaming that one day that beautiful thing in flight would land on this earth and into my arms.
amazing, mr. chang. this place is amazing! and that marble quarry in the valley is simply magnificent. oh, I have looked around. I have seen everything. your woodworkers and your cloth-weavers - they all seem so very, very happy.
yes.
you may not know it, mr. chang, but right here you have utopia.[15]
you have very kind mr. lovett.
i do not mean it in that sense. i only give credit where credit is due.  er, mr. chang, I am very anxious to have you realize that i never for a moment believed that ridiculous kidnapping story.
oh, I am so glad.
simply preposterous. do you know what i did last night? last night, mr. chang, i held a sort of a self- inventory. i said to myself last night, mr. chang, i said, "lovey"  mr. lovett! "mr. lovett," i said, "you are an ungrateful fool . . . "
why, no.
"ungrateful fool . . . !"  those were my very words to myself last night. "here are these people in shangri-la doing everything in their power to make our stay comfortable and happy and i have not done one single thing to show my appreciation."
now, what would you like to do?
well, mr. chang, i thought, with your permission of course, and while I am waiting for these porters, i would like to organize classes for those children in the valley and teach them something practical and something useful. geology.
splendid!
is not it? is not it! you know i was a professor for twenty years? - and a very good one.
I am sure you were. when would you like to start?
oh, immediately.
then it is done.
oh, thank you. thank you!
thank you.
you see? you get the idea? from this reservoir here i can pipe in the whole works. oh, I am going to get a great kick out of this. of course it is just to keep my hand in, but with the equipment we have here, i can put a plumbing system in for the whole village down there. can rig it up in no time.  do you realize those poor people are still going to the well for water?
it is unbelievable.
think of it! in times like these.
say, what about that gold deal?
huh?
gold. you were going to
oh - that! that can wait. nobody's going to run off with it.  say, I have got to get busy. i want to show this whole layout to chang.  so long. do not you take any wooden nickels.
all right.
george - you are behaving like a child. you have not opened your mouth in two weeks.
i do not see that there is anything to say.
yes. I am afraid it does.
shall we have another?
no thanks. not tonight if you do not mind.
charming, is not she?
yes, charming.
your brother seems quite fascinated by her.
why not? she is an attractive young woman.
young? she arrived here in 1888. she was 20 at the time. she was on her way to join her betrothed - when her carriers lost their way in the mountains. the whole party would have perished but for meeting some of our people.
amazing!  she still does not look over 20. when is she likely to grow old in appearance?
not for years. shangri-la will keep her youthful indefinitely.
suppose she should leave it?
leave shangri-la! that is not likely. you could not drive her out.
no, i mean about her appearance. if she should leave the valley - what would happen?
oh, she would quickly revert in her appearance to her actual age.
it is weird.  chang, how old are you?
age is a limit we impose upon ourselves. you know, each time you westerners celebrate your birthday, you build another fence around your minds.
a fine trick! smart, are not you? what a pack of lies you told us about those porters! of course the minute they arrive, we can make arrangements to leave. if they take us. but you knew very well you would tell them not to!
now, my dear boy. you should not
you have been lying to us ever since we got here! apparently it is worked with some people. perhaps it is because they lack the courage to do anything about it. but not me, chang. you are up against the wrong man. I will get out of here, if i have to blow this fantastic place into the valley! I will get outporters or no porters!
you must prevail upon him not to attempt the journey. he could never get through that country alive.
i can not let him go alone. it is suicide!
yes, of course, your brother is a problem. it was to be expected.
i knew you would understand. that is why i came to you for help.
you must not look to me for help. your brother is no longer my problem. he is now your problem, conway.
mine?
because, my son, i am placing in your hands the future and destiny of shangri-la.  for i am going to die.
i have waited for you, my son, for a long time. i have sat in this room and seen the faces of newcomers. i have looked into their eyes and heard their voices - always in hope that i might find you . my friend, it is not an arduous task that i bequeath, for our order knows only silken bonds. to be gentle and patient, to care for the riches of the mind, to preside in wisdom, while the storm rages without.
do you think this will come in my time?
look, honey. we run the pipes through here, and we connect with the main water line here.
pipes? where are you going to get pipes?
oh, that is a cinch. I will show them how to cast pipes out of clay.
there you are! barnard, you would better get your things together. we are leaving.
leaving?
yes. I have just been talking with the porters. they are going to take us. we have got clothing, food, everything. come on!
when are you going to start?
right this very minute!  the porters are waiting for us on the plateau. and that chinaman thought he could stop me. come along.
i think I will stick around. I will leave with the porters on their next trip.
you mean you do not want to go?
well - I am
i see. you are afraid of going to jail, eh?
well, no. you see, i got this plumbing business
all right! if you insist on being an idiot, I am not going to waste time coaxing you.  how about you?
oh, no - you do not want to go yet, honey.  she will stick around too.  is that right?
if you want me to!
sure - sure. do not you worry. I will take care of you.
how about you? do you want to go?
go? where?
home. away from here. I have got porters to take us back.
oh, my dear boy, I am sorry. that is impossible. why, i have my classes all started.
i do not care what you have got started. do you want to go?
well - no - i think I would better wait. yes, yes. i will. I will wait.
you will wait till you rot!
yes.  barney!
oh my, is not that pretty! what is it?
plumbing. everything modern. I am going to run pipes all through the village
i said we are getting out of here. back to civilization. i made a deal with the porters. they brought in a load of books or something, and they are leaving tomorrow at dawn. they are waiting for us five miles outside the valley. come on, get your things together. where is your top coat?
you can not leave, george.
why not? what is going to stop me?
you mustn't. you have got to stay here now.
stay here?!  what is the matter with you, bob? you have been acting strangely ever since we came here.  I have never seen you like this. why can not we leave? what is stopping us?
something grand and beautiful, george. something I have been searching for all my life. the answer to the confusion and bewilderment of a lifetime. I have found it, george, and i can not leave it. you must not either.
i do not know what you are talking about. you are carrying around a secret that seems to be eating you up. if you will only tell me about it.
i will, george. i want to tell you. I will burst with it if i don't. it is weird and fantastical and sometimes unbelievable, but so beautiful!  well, as you know, we were kidnapped and brought here . . .
well, i - i really do not know what to say. except that you must be completely mad.
so you think I am mad?
what else can i think after a tale like that?  good heavens, bob, things like that do not happen today. we are living in the twentieth century.
so you think it is all nonsense, huh?
i think you have been hypnotized by a lot of loose-brained fanatics. why, i would not believe it if i heard it in an english monastery. why should i swallow it here in tibet?  how do you know the things they told you are true? did they show you any proof?
i do not need any proof.
i knew there was a reason i hated this place. I would give half my life to fly over it with a load of bombs just for what they have done to you. how do you know the things they told you are true? did they show you any proof? all this talk about the lamas being hundreds of years old. how do you know? did you see their birth certificates?  i can not believe it, bob. a bunch of decrepit old men sit around and dream about reforming the world. and you, bob conway - two-feet-on- the-ground conway - want to join them. it is horrible.
is that all my story meant to you?
what else could it mean to me? it is obviously a lot of bunk.
then you would better go, george. this is no place for you.
it is no place for you, bob. think of what is waiting for you. do you want to stay here until you are half dead? until your mind starts corroding like the rest of them?
please, george. i do not want to talk about it anymore.
you have got to talk about it. what about me? you said they stole that plane to bring you here. i did not want to come. you owe me some responsibility.
I am tired of owing you things. you are free to go. go ahead.
it is that girl - that girl has twisted and turned
enough! never mind the girl!  well, why do not you go?
look here, bob, ever since i can remember, you have looked after me. now i think you are the one that needs looking after. I am your brother, bob. if there is something wrong with you, let me help you.
oh, george . . .
besides, i - i do not feel like making that trip alone, bob.
george, you could not possibly stay here, could you?
I would go mad!
george, i may be wrong, i may be a maniac. but i believe in this, and I am not going to lose it.  you know how much i want to help you, but this is bigger, stronger if you like than brotherly love. I am sorry, george. I am staying.
well, i can not think of anything more to say. goodbye, bob.
george, are you sure of the porters? about their taking care of you, i mean?
oh yes. it is all set. maria made the arrangements.
maria?
yes, the little russian girl.
what is she got to do with it?
she is going with me.
you can not take her away from here!
why not?
because you can't. do you know what will happen to her if she leaves shangri-la? she is a fragile thing that can only live where fragile things are loved. take her out of this valley and she will fade away like an echo.
what do you mean - "fade away like an echo"?
she came here in 1888!
this would be funny - if it was not so pathetic. why, she is not a day over twenty!
you are wrong, george.
I am not wrong. she told me so. besides, she would not have to tell me. I would know anyway.  i found out a lot of things last night.  I am not ashamed of it either. it is probably one of the few decent things that is ever happened in this hellish place.
so everyone is serenely happy in shangri-la? nobody would ever think of leaving?  it is all just so much rot! she is pleaded with me ever since i came here to take her away from this awful place. she is cried in my arms for hours, for fear I would leave her behind. and what is more, she is made two trips to the plateau to bribe the porters - for me!
i do not believe it! i do not believe a word of it!
all right. I will prove it to you! you believe everything they have told you - without proof! I will prove my story!
it is all your fault! it was all arranged until he spoke to you! why can not you leave us alone?
do you mean to tell me you want to leave shangri-la?
I will die if i have to stay here another minute! I have waited a long time for this chance to go, and you are not going to stop me now. if i have to, I will go alone. it was i who bribed the porters. if it were not for me, you would never get out!
i thought the porters had instructions from the high lama not to take anyone.
the high lama? who pays any attention to him? the porters laugh at the high lama. all they want to know is how much gold he will give them. well, i gave them more gold. I have been stealing it for a year. I would do anything to get out of this place. to get away from that high lama - the one who calls himself father perrault! why, he is been insane for years!
father perrault is dead.
he is dead? that is fine. you will not see me shedding any tears over him!  oh george, you must take me with you!
are not you afraid to leave? you do not want to look like an old woman, do you?
old woman? chang told you that, did not he?
yes.
i thought so!  he tells everyone I am old. he wants them to stay away from me. he can not stand it when anyone comes near. he is punished me for every minute I have spent with george. if it were not for him, i would have been out of here long ago, but he always stops me. six months ago, i tried to escape and he locked me in a dark room. i nearly went crazy.  look at me, mr. conway, do i look like an old woman? is this the skin of an old woman? look into my eyes and see if these are the eyes of an old woman?
she was kidnapped and brought here two years ago just as we were, bob.
i do not believe it! i can not believe it. she is lying.  you are lying. you are lying! every word you have been saying is a lie! come on, say it!
you are lying, are not you?
no, mr. conway, I am not lying. what reason could i have for lying? the chances are that we will never come out of that horrible trip alive, but I would rather die out there in a snowstorm and be buried alive, than to stay here one more minute now.
you say the porters are waiting for us?
yes.
the clothes?
yes, everything!
what about the others?
I have already asked them. they are afraid to make the trip. we will have to send an expedition back after them.
come on! we are wasting time!
are you taking me?
yes, of course. certainly. come on!
lucky thing for me you snapped out of it, too. you saved my life. i never could have made it alone.
what was that?
was saying
can not you shut up? must you go on babbling like an idiot?
bob, can not you get them to wait for us? they are leaving us farther behind every day.
there is nothing that would suit them better than to lose us, but we must go on.  come on.
no, i can't! i can't! you have got to let me rest! you have got to let me rest!
hey!
target practice again! one of these days they are going to hit us.
as long as they keep on aiming at us, we are safe.  come now, child.
cable from gainsford.
oh, read it!
"leaving today for london with conway aboard s.s. manchuria. conway can tell nothing of his experiences. is suffering from complete loss of memory. signed, gainsford."
all of it?
yes. might as well - all of it.
yes, sir.
I will dispatch a convoy to meet him.
conway's gone again! run out! listen to this! from gainsford.
let me have it.  "aboard the s.s. manchuria. last night conway seemed to recover his memory. kept talking about shangri- la, telling a fantastic story about a place in tibet. insisted upon returning there at once. locked him in room but he escaped us and jumped ship during night at singapore. am leaving ship myself to overtake him, as fearful of his condition. wrote down details of conway's story about shangri-la which i am forwarding. lord gainsford."
