let's go,let's go, let's go, you shoulda done that ten minutes ago --
we need more dog food --
-- talk in the car, talk in the car, moves your ass, c'mon --
cmon,cmon,cmon, that one to?
i need this one.
why the hell do you need all four bags of books to go to school each day?
i can not carry all of them. i need them. i need my books. i need them to go to school.
be ready at two --
should be one-thirty.
i got an audition, i will not make it here 'till two, c'mon, I will see you later. love you.
love you too.
how is today then?
fuckin' bullshit is what this is.
fuckin' bullshit is right, in'it?
what? what? what now?
quietly, slow down, whoa --
you can not just come in here.
the door was open, i got a call --
you are just come in --
calm down.
i am calm.
i got a call to this apartment, report of a disturbance --
there is no disturbance.
i got a call of a disturbance, you are door was open, i just wanna see what is goin' on --
there is no disturbance.
then you have got nothin' to worry about.
you do not tell me, i know my rights, just come right in, you can not --
do not test me, you wanna talk about what the law book says, we can do that, push me far enough and I will take you to jail -- now calm down.
i am calm.
you are not calm.  you are screamin' and yellin' and I am here to check on a disturbance that was reported and that is what I am going to do - now are you alone in here?
i do not have to answer your questions.
no you don't: but I am going to ask you one more time: are you alone in here?
what does it look like?
no one else in here?
you are here.
ok.  that is true.  is anyone else, besides me and besides you in this house?
no.  i said that.
are you lyin' to me?
i live alone.
maybe so, but I am going to ask you one more time: is anyone else in this house right now?
no i said.
ok. what is your name?
marcie.
ok. marice why do not you take a seat for me?
i preffer to stand.
I am not askin', marcie.
i did not do anything.
maybe you didn't, but I am here to find out about a disturbance. some neighbors called said they heard screaming and a loud crash.
i do not know a loud crash.
and what about screaming?
i said: i do not know.  you can not just come in here and start pokin' around --
what is this, how did this happen?
you just woke up.  and what did you have a party last night, the way this place looks?
i went out last night.
ok. marcie. starting now i want you to have a new attitude with me.  the more you play games, the more suspicious I am going to become that you have been up to something.
it is a free country, you can think anything you want.
yes i can, marcie.  and until you start givin' me some straight answers: I am going to assume that some mischief has been goin' on here.
mischief?  what the fuck you talkin' about, mischief?
bad and illegal behavior. that is what i mean. ok?  mischief.  now have you been doin' some drugs today?
no.
you on any medication?
no.
been drinkin' today?
it is ten of the clock in the morning --
--- what was that?
i did not hear anything.
no. no. stay down, marcie, sit back down on that couch --
i do not have to do a god damn thing.
what is this? what is this? god damn bullshit. bullshit. do not put those --
marcie - calm down. calm down and do not do this. i want you to stay --
this is the lapd. if anyone is back here i want you to come out and i want you to show yourself to me with your hands in the air --
there is no one in there. stay out of my motherfuckin bedroom.
this is the lapd, if anyone is in the closet i want you to come out and show yourself to me, slowly and with your hands up --
there is no one in there!
marcie - quiet down! now if anyone is in the closet, come out now --
there is no one in my motherfuckin closet and stay out of my bedroom, stay out of my god damn bedroom.
-- do not do this -- my gun is drawn and if i have to open that closet you will get shot -- step out now.
what the hell is this marcie?
that is not mine.
...no...no goddamn use.  i have a son, y'know?
you do?
...ah...
where is he?
i do not know...i mean, he is around, he is here, in town, y'know, but i do not know...he's a tough one...very.... do you have a girlfriend, phil?
no.
get a girlfriend.
I am trying.
and do good things with her...share the thing...all that bullshit is true, y'know...find someone and hold on all that...where's linda?
she went out.  she said she went out to run some errands.  she will be back.
she is a good girl.  she is a little nuts, but she is a good girl i think. she is a little daffy.
she loves you.
...ah...maybe...yeah...she's a good one...
when was the last time you talked to your son?
....i dunn...o....maybe ten...five, fuck, fuck....that's another thing that goes --
-- memory?
time lines, y'know?  i remember things but not so -- right there -- y'know?
yeah.
"yeah."  the fuck do you know?
I have seen it before.
other fuckin' assholes like me.
there is no asshole like you.
...cocksucker....
how come every word you say is either "cocksucker," or "shitballs," or "fuck?"
do me a personal favor --
go fuck myself?
you got it.
...i can not hold onto this anymore...
I will get you another pain pill. another morphine pill --
...gimme that fuckin' phone...
who are you gonna call?
i wanna see this...where is he, do you know?
who?
jack.
is jack your son?
you wanna call him on the phone? we can call him, i can dial the phone if you can remember the number --
-- it is not him. it is not him. he is the fuckin' asshole...phil..c'mere...
this is so boring...so goddamn... and dying wish and all that, old man on a bed...fuck...wants one thing:
it is ok.
...find him on the...frank. his name's frank mackey --
frank mackey.  that is your son?
that'snotmy name...find lily, gimmme that, give it --
hello?
hi.  is frank there?
i think you have the wrong number.
I am looking for frank mackey.
no.
is this 509-9027?
yeah.  you have the wrong number. there is no one named frank here.
alright.  thank you.
yep.
-- he is fucking dying, he is dying as we are sitting here and there is not a fucking thing -- jesus, how can you tell me to calm down?
i can help you through this the best i know how but there are certain things you are going to have to be strong about and take care of, now we can go over them, but i need to know that you are listening to me, ok?
i just, i just -- i just -- I am just in a fucking state, i know he is going and it is like i do not know how -- just tell me practical things -- what the fuck do i do with his body? what happens when he dies? that next moment: what? what do i do?  then what?
well that is what hospice will take care of for you.  they will send a nurse, someone who can take care of all of that for you --
he has phil right now.
phil's one of the nurses from the service?
yeah.
if you are happy with phil taking care of him and helping you, that is fine, but contact hospice to arrange for the body --
-- you do not understand: it is more pain than before and the fucking morphine pills are not working, he is -- past two days it is like he can not really swallow them and i do not know if they are going down -- i can not see inside his mouth anymore -- I am up all night staring at him and i do not think the pills are going down and he moans and he hurts --
we can fix that, because i can give you -- are you listening?
I am listening.  I am getting better.
do you wanna sit down?
i need to sit down.
ok. linda:  earl is not going to make it. he is dying. he is.  he is dying very, very rapidly --
this is the number for hospice. ok. now. as far as the morphine pills go, there is something else to consider that can take the pain away that he is in, there is a very strong and very potent solution of liquid morphine....it's a little bottle, with an eye dropper and it is easy to get in his mouth and drop on his tounge and it will certainly diminish the pain that he is in but you have to realize that once you give it to him; there really is no coming back, i mean, it will certainly cure his pain, but he will float in and out of consciousness, even worse than he is now, linda.  i mean, any sign of the recognizable earl will pretty much go away --
-- how the fuck can i say anything to that -- i do not know what to say to that --
the job here is to make him as comfortable as possible -- right now -- our job is to just try and make it as painless as possible. right?  you understand?
hello?
hello.  is claudia here?
she is asleep.
are you her boyfriend?
you are jimmy gator, right?
yes.  what is your name?
I am bob.
you are her boyfriend?
no, I am just a friend.  what are you doing here, i mean...you know claudia?
I am her father.
can i come in?
yeah.  she is sleeping now, i mean --
want me to wake her up?
i'ii go....is it...back here?
...what the fuck is this...?
it is me.  claudia.  it is me.
what do you want? why are you here?
I would like to talk to you.  your boyfriend let me in, i just knocked on the door --
he is not my boyfriend.
wanna call me a slut now, something?
no.  no.
what the fuck do you want?
i want to sit.  i want to talk to you.
do not sit down.
...i want to....i want so many things, claudia. maybe we can just talk to straighten our things out....there are so many things that i want to tell you --
i do not wanna talk to you.
please.  it does not have to be now. maybe we can make a date to sit down, i did not mean to walk in on you like this --
why are you here, why are you doing this? coming in here -- you wanna call me a whore?
i do not want you to think that I am that way to you -- I am not going to call you a slut or something --
yeah, yeah right -- what the fuck are doing?  what the fuck are you doing in my house?
do not yell, honey.  please do not go crazy --
I am not crazy.  do not you tell me I am crazy.
I am not saying that, I am sorry --
I am not crazy.  you are the one.  you are the one who is wrong.  you are the one --
i have something, so much -- I am sick, claudia. I am sick.
get out of here, get the fuck out of my house --
now stop it and listen to me right now. i am dying, i got sick...now i fell down and I am not...don't --
get the fuck out.
I am dying, claudia.  i have cancer. i have cancer and I am dying, soon. it is metastasized in my bones and i --
fuck you.  fuck you, you get out.
I am not lying to you, I am not --
fuck you.  you get the fuck out of here.
baby, please, please --
I am not your baby, I am not your girl. I am not your fuckin' baby --
please put your clothes on, please --
you burn in bell.  you burn in hell and you deserve it -- you get the fuck out.
honey.
get out.
your mother wants to hear from you --
get the fuck out of here.
I am sorry.
it is alright.
...please...
do not donnie. do not do it.
this is so fucked, solomon. i do not deserve this.
do not get strong, donnie. this is making sense, this making a lot of sense. you are not doing the job, the job i ask you to do, a job i give you. over and over and over and I am sorry. but I am not going to say I am sorry that much more.
solomon: i am in the middle of so much. so much in my life and this is -- if you do this, if you fire me: i am fucked. i can not really explain much, but please, please, I have worked here for four years, four years I have given you and i'm, i'm, i mean what?  I am sorry i was late. i had a car accident.  i accidentaly drove into a seven-eleven. it was not my fault.
i do not have any money, solomon. if you fire me --
-- i give you money, i give you a paycheck. your sales suck, don. i give, i give. when i find you, when i meet you, what? i put you on the billboard, i put you in the store, my salesman, my fucking representation of solomon and solomon electronic, quiz kid donnie smith from the game show --
i lent my name, my celebrity. exactly --
fuck you.  i pay you, i paid you. i give you a fucking chance and a chance and over and over, over you let me down.  i trust you with so much. the keys to my store, the codes to my locks, the life, the blood of my bussiness and return is smashing in seven-eleven, late, always late, loans -- i loaned you money for your kitchen that you never did --
i paid you back.
two years! two years later and out of your paycheck, i never charge interest --
solomon, please.  please.  i am so fucked here if you do this.  this is the worst timing. the worst timing i could ever imagine. i need to keep working.  i have so many debts, so many things, i have, i have, i have -- i have surgery -- i have my oral surgery coming --
what surery?
oral surgery.  corrective teeth surgery.
what is that?
braces.
braces?
yes.
you do not need braces.
yes i do.
your teeth are fine.
your teeth are straight.
i need corrective oral surgery. i need the braces.
don, you got hit by lightning that time in tahoe, you went on vacation, i do not think braces is a good idea --
i can not believe you are going to do this to me, the situation I am in, i do not -- avi: you know what?  being hit by lighting does not matter for getting braces, ok? now solomon, let me just ask you once: please. please. do not do this.
how are you paying tor the braces, donnie?
i do not know.
and how much is braces?
it's...doesn't matter....
I have been a good worker --
do not do this, don.
i do not know.
you were going to ask me were not you?
I have been a good worker, solomon. a hard and loyal --
no need for braces, donnie.
that is none of your bussiness. i have been a good worker, a good and loyal worker for you, you fucking asshole.
hey fuck you don watch it now.
give me your keys, don.
please do not do this!
gimme your fuckin' keys.
how much you pay me for my help?
i think it is more complicated than that little man.
put me on the payroll, find out, find out wassup --
you do not just sign up to be a police officer -- it is about three years of training -- ok?
I am trained, I am ready to go, you wanna buy some candy to help underprivelaged youth in the --
sorry, little man.
you wanna take my statement, I will perform for you, got to get paid though, got to get paid.
why the hell are not you in school?
no school today.  my teacher got sick.
they do not have substitute teachers where you go to school?
nope.  so what did they find out in there?
that is confidential information, little man.
tell me what you know, I will tell you what i know --
no can do.
leave this one to the detectives, they am not going to solve shit, i can help you, make you the man with a plan, give you the gift that i flow -- think fast -- you wanna know who killed that guy?
ok. listen. you: c'mere.
no.
you wanna disrespect an officer of the law?
i can help you solve the case, i can tell you who did it.
are you a joker? huh? tellin' jokes?
I am a rapper.
oh, you are a rapper, huh?  you got a record contract?
not yet -- "give you the clue for the bust if you show me some trust --"
have you ever been to juvenille hall?
i am not fuckin with you --
hey. watch the mouth. watch it.
c'mon, man, just watch me, watch and listen --
go. hurry up. let's go.
presence - with a double ass meaning gifts i bestow, with my riff, and my flow but you do not hear me though think fast, catch me, yo cause i throw what i know with a resonance - fo'yo'trouble-ass fiend in weenin yo-self off the back of the shelf jackass crackas, bodystackas dicktootin niggas, masturbatin' yo trigga butcha you all just fake-ass niggas --
-- watch the mouth, homeboy, i do not need to hear that word --
-- livin' to get older with a chip on your shoulder 'cept you think you got a grip, cauze you hip got to holster? am not no confessor, so busta, you best just shut the fuck up, try to listen and learn --
alright, alright, cut it, coolio. that is enough with the mouth and the language.
I am almost done.
finish it up without the lip.
check that ego - come off it - I am the profit - the proffesor ima teach you 'bout the worm, who eventually turned to catch wreck with the neck of a long time oppressor and he is runnin from the devil, but the debt is always gaining and if he is worth being hurt, he is worth bringin' pain in - when the sunshine do not work, the good lord bring the rain in.
now that shit will help you solve the case.
whatever that meant, I am sure it is real helpful ice-t.
did you listen to me?
i was listening --
-- i told you who did it and you are not listening to me.
-- and I am through playin' games.
c'mon, man.
you are late, not me.
you coulda been in front --
-- i did not see you from the window.
you ready to keep winning?
sure.
I am fine. yes. I am fine.
ready to go,go,go?
where is richard and julia?
they are here, they are fine. in the dressing room.  see you later --
go to it, handsome.
see you.
where is the news department at this studio?
it is upstairs.
have you ever been there?
sure, why?
I am wondering about the weather department. I am wonderin' wether or not the weather people use outside meteorlogical services or if they have in-house instruments?
i can check on that for you, maybe we can take a tour --
ok.
rose is on the phone and here's the cards for today --
fifteen minutes ago, where were those cards?
I am sorry.
i need you to get me paula --
you want her right now?
yes. now. find her. she is somewhere in the building --
we are on the air in twenty minutes, jimmy.
find her, get her and tell her i want to talk to her, mary.  fucking hell.
how you doing?
I am drinking.
slowly or quickly?
as fast as i can.
come home soon after the show.
i went to see her -- some fuckin' asshole answers the door in his underwear, he is fifty years old, there is coke and shit laid out on the table --
-- did she talk to you?
she went crazy.  she went crazy, rose.
did you tell her?
i do not know.  i have to go, i do not have time and i have more drinking to do before i go march --
i love you.
love you too..
bye.
...hello...?
lapd. open the door.
uh...uh...what is it?
it is the lapd, can you open the door, please?
pink dot.
hi. I would like to get an order for delivery.
phone number.
818-753-0088.
partridge?
yeah.
what would you like?
I would like to get an order of...um...peanut butter.
mmm.hmmm.
cigarettes. camel lights.
mmm.hmm.
water.
bottled water?
um, no, y'know what? forget the water, just give me a loaf of bread...white bread.
ok.
and um....do you have swank magazine?
yeah.
ok. one of those. do you have ram rod? the magazine, ram rod?
yeah.
ok. one of those.  and...um...barely legal?
yeah.
do you have that?
yeah, i said.  is that it?
that is it.
do you still want the peanut butter, bread and cigarettes ?
yes. what? yes.
total is $15.29.  thirty minutes or less.
thank you.
that is fine.  it is nice to meet you.
are we gonna tape some stuff now?
if you are up to it, I have got us set up in a suite upstairs --
you got us a room so quick?
all it takes is one second?
just one look, one hesitation, one subtle gesture for me to know -- and bing-bam-boom I am away on a tangent -- i get so fuckin' amped at these seminars and lemme tell you why: because i am what i believe. i am what i teach, i do as i say, i live by these rules as religiously as i preach them: and you wanna know what? I am gettin' pussy left, right, up, down, center and sideways.
I am going to start rolling --
-- go, go, go.  I am givin' pearls here. and i'ii tell you samethin' else: I am not succeding in the bush because I am frank tj mackey.  if anything, there are women out there that want to destroy me -- it makes it twice as hard for me, i run into some little muffin, knows who i am, knows my schemes and plans -- shit, she is going to wanna fuck around, prove to her friends, say, "yaddda-yadda-yadda, i saw that guy, he was not anything, did not get me."  so me? I am runnin' on full throttle the whole fuckin' time.  dodging bullets left and right from terrorist blonde beauties. but i'ii tell you this: the battle of the bush is being fought and won by team mackey.  can i have a cigarette?
ok.  so, lemme just ask you a couple questions to start --
hello.  you are back again, huh?
yeah, yes, hi, hello.
-- can i get you?
diet coke.
diet coke.
i want a shot of tequila too.
-- what kind?
it does not matter.
do you still have to do homework?
not as much as i used to.  ever since we started, i have not really gone in to school that much because I have been getting more and more auditions --
i do not have regular classes anymore.
what do you do?
they just let me have my own study-time, my own reading time in the library.
that is pretty cool.
do you have an agent, stanley?
no.
you should get one, I am serious, you could get a lot of stuff out of this --
like what?
what do you mean, "like what?" -- you could get endorsments and shit --
-- richard.
bite it, cynthia.  you could get free things from people that want you to endorse their products.
commercials, a sitcom, an mow or something.
what is mow?
movie of the week.  i went up for one this morning with alan thicke and corey haim --
was it a call back?
no.  but i probably will get a call back.
if we beat the record, you might get a call back --
I will get it because I am a good actress, richard.
saucy-saucy.
c'mon guys, settle down --
cynthia?
what?
how much time do we have?
not enough, what do you want?
i should maybe go to the bathroom.
can you hold it?
i do not know.
just hold it, you will be fine.
they look pretty smart, i think.
no they do not --
what are they gonna do -- beat us?
maybe.
we are not going out two days before we set the record, it is not going to happen.
when they want us done, they will call in the harvard s.w.a.t team or some shit.
you look great.
what the fuck is this, jimmy?
...you know...
did your wife find out?
no.
then what?
it is just...too late for me to be fuckin' around.  i got to stop. i got to clean my brain of all the shit I have done that i should not have done --
-- that you should not have done? that you regret, what? this? what is this? fuck, man, c'mon.  treat me like an asshole, but treat me like an asshole.
i do not wanna have to lie to anyone. i do not want to hurt anyone else, anymore.
thirty fuckin' years I have been with rose, do not -- y'know -- with this, and i know what you think --
all your other fluzzies?
yeah. yes.
you are making me feel so dirty and shitty. i feel like a big piece of shit right now.
are you going to tell her what you have done?
yes.
will you say my name?
if she asks me any question i want to tell her.  i want to tell her everything I have done.
well can you do me one favor and do not do that.
come and tell me it is over and I will walk away, jimmy.  I have fucked you behind your wife's back for three years, and you have fucked teenage girls behind mine for the same amount of time -- I will walk away, you need something for your life, for your conscience, but do not put me in the middle --
i won't.
what happend to you?
i got in trouble at school.
are you ok?
fuck no.
you smell like trouble --
I am fuckin' hammered, burt.
you ok?
ooohhhhhh no.
it is been the same fuckin' thing for thirty years, burt --
these adults are tough enough, i think you will be surprised -- the mexican's a bit of a question mark --
open the door.
I am coming!
...yeah...
I am sorry, i had to get dressed.
-- you the resident here?
yes.
you alone in there?
yes.
no one else in there with you?
no, what is wrong?
you mind if i come in, check things?
for what?
ok. for one thing, we are going to need to turn that music down so we can talk, ok?
I am sorry.
you live alone?
yes.
what is your name?
claudia.
claudia what?
wilson.
ok.  claudia wilson: you tryin' to go deaf?
what?
did you hear what i said?
yeah, but i do not know --
-- listenin' to that music so loud: you tryin' to damage your ears?
no.
well if you keep listenin' to the music that loud you are not only going to damage your ears but your neighbors ears.
i did not realize it was that loud.
and that could be the sign of a damaged ear drum, you understand?
yeah.
you got the tv on too, keep those on at that same time usually?
no.
i got a call of a disturbance, screaming and yelling, loud music.  has there been some screaming and yelling?
yes.  i had someone come to my door, someone i did not want here and i told them to leave -- so -- it is no big deal. they left.  I am sorry.
was it a boyfriend of yours?
no.
you do not have a boyfriend?
no.
who was it?
i was...he's gone...i mean it is not. it is over, y'know --
you mind if i check things back here?
it is fine.
what are you lookin' for?
claudia: why do not you let me handle the questions and you handle the answers, ok?
ok.
you just move in here?
about two years ago.
bit messy.
yeah.
I am a bit of a slob myself.
yeah.
you and your boyfriend have a party last night?
i do not have a boyfriend.
you look like you have got money in your pocket.
maybe I am just happy to see my friend, brad there.
just throw some money around. money, money, money.
this sounds threatening.
do you have love in your heart?
i have love all over.  i even have love for you, friend.
is it real love?
well --
-- the kind of love that makes you feel that intagible joy.  pit of your stomach. like a bucket of acid and nerves running around and making you hurt and happy and all over you are head over heels....?
well you lost me with the last couple of cocktail words spoken, m'boy, but i believe it is that sort of love. sounds nice to me.
i have love.
a very chatty-kind, you do, indeed, it seems.
no.  i mean, I am telling you: I am telling you that i have love.
and I am listening avidly, fellow.
my name is donnie smith and i have lot's of love to give.
hello.
hi.
the fuck is wrong with you?
i gotta go to the bathroom.
you okay?  huh?  jimmy?
and the book says: "we may by through with the past, but the past am not through with us."
c'mon, jimmy, snap up, snap up --
in my sleep, burt.
willa cather.
for 25.  best known for the "tragedy and blood" genre, this author-playwright --
I am going to need a full name, stanley.
jean baptiste poquelin moliere.
hi, hello, great.  this is seduce and destroy?
it is.  can i have your home phone number with area code?
well i do not want to order anything, you see. i have a situation, a situation just come up that is really pretty serious and I am not sure who i should talk to or what i should do but could you maybe put me in touch with the right person if i explain myself?
I am really only equipped to take orders --
well can you connect me to someone else?
well what is the situation?
well, ok.  lemme see how i explain this without it seeming kinda crazy, but here go:  i'm, my name is phil parma and i work for a man named earl partridge -- mr. earl partidge. I am his nurse.  he is a very sick man. he is a dying man and he is sick and he is asked me to help him, to help him find his son -- hello?  are you there, hello?
I am here, I am listening.
ok.  see:  frank tj macky is earl partridge's son....
where are you from originally?
around here.
the valley?
hollywood, mainly.
and what did your parents do?
my father worked in televison. my mother -- this is gonna sound silly to you -- she was a librarian.
why does that sound silly?
well i guess it doesn't.
does you mother still work?
she is retired.
are you close?
she is my mother.
what does she say about, "seduce and destroy."
"go get 'em, honey."
and your father?
he passed away.
I am sorry.
people die.
i wouldn'tve asked --
not a problem.
and you ended up at uc berkely --
from '84 to '89.
psychology major?
right.
do you have your masters?
...this close...
in five years?
cats and dogs out there, huh?
mmmhmm.
must have alot goin' on for all that stuff you got back there, eh?  you could have quite a party all that stuff....
you been on prozac long?  dexadrine?
...i don't....
you motherfucker...you motherfucker.... you fucking asshole, who the fuck are you? who the fuck do you think you are?
-- what-what-what, ma'am -- i --
i come in here - you do not know, you do not know who the fuck i am or what my life is and you have the fucking balls, the indecency to ask me a question about my life --
why do not they have the same last name? they do not have the same last name.
i know -- and i can not really explain that, but i have a feeling there is something, some situation between them, like they do not really know each other much or well, something like they do not talk much anymore --
uh-huh.
does this sound weird?
well I am not sure why you are calling me.
there is no number for frank in any of earl's stuff and he is pretty out of it -- i mean, like i said, he is dying, y'know.  dying of cancer.
what kind of cancer?
brain and lung.
my mother had breast cancer.
it is rough.  I am sorry, did she make it?
oh, she is fine.
oh that is good.
it was scary though.
it is a helluva disease.
sure is.  so why call me?
-- see, i thought you grew up here in the valley --
like i said, yeah --
and you went to van nuys high, right?
i do not how much i went -- but i was enrolled.  i was such a loser back then. i was -- misguided, pathetic -- i was very fat. not even close to what i am today. not the frank tj mackey you are eager to talk to because i was swimming in what was as opposed to i wanted.
where does that name come from?
what name?  my name?
it is not your given name, right?
my mother's name, actually. good question.  you have done you are research.
and "frank?"
"frank" was my mother's father.
ok.  that is why.  i had trouble locating your school records at berkely and ucla. your name change -- they had no official enrollment --
oh, yeah.  no, no, no.  they would not --
they wouldn't?
no, no, no.  certainly not.  i was not officialy enrolled, that is right. was that unclear?
kind of.
i would not want that to be misunderstood: my enrollment was totally unoffical because i was, sadly, unable to afford tuition up there.  but there were three wonderful men who were kind enough to let me sit in on their classes, and they are names are: macready, horn and langtree among others. i was completely independent financially, and like i said: one sad sack a shit. so what we are looking at here is a true rags to riches story and i think that is what most people respond to in "seduce," and at the end of the day? hey -- it may not even be about picking up chicks and sticking your cock in it -- it is about finding what you can be in this world.  defining it.  controling it and saying: i will take what is mine.  you just happen to get a blow job out of it, then hey-what-the-fuck- why-not?  he.he.he.
got some coffee brewing, huh?
yeah...it's not...it's been on for a bit --
i like iced coffee, generally, but a day like this, rain and what not, i enjoy a warm cup --
-- do you wanna cup?
that is great, thank you.
i do not know how fresh it is going to be --
oh, it will be fine, I am sure, claudia.
you take cream or sugar?
that would be fine.  so, claudia, lemme just say, so i can get my role of lapd officer out of the way before we enjoy our coffee  I am not going to write you up or anything, I am not going to give you a citation here -- but the real problem we have is that there are people around here, people that work from their homes, people tryin' to get some work done, and if you are listenin' to your music that loud:  they are incovenienced by that.  if you had a job you would probably understand, but i see you like listenin' to your music and that is fine, you are just going to wanna keep it down at a certain volume, maybe memorize what number you see on the dial and just always put it to that -- if it is the middle of the day -- that is what i do -- just put it on two and a half and that is a good listening level, alright? i see you like listenin' to your music loud, but, hey, forget about the neighbors, you end up damaging your own ears ok?
yeah.
arlight, then.  cheers.
is this boyfriend bothering you?
i do not have a boyfriend.
the gentleman who came to the door --
-- is not my boyfriend.
many times, in damestic abuse situations the young lady is afraid to speak, but i have to tell you that, being a police officer, I have seen it happen: young woman afraid to speak, next thing you know, I am gettin' a call on the radio, i got a 422 --
it is not -- what is a 422?
it is where situations like these lead, claudia, unless you do something about it early, if and when the police call and come for help.  now there are certain measures you can take --
it is not my boyfriend -- and it is not anything -- it is over.  really. it is not.  he will not came back.
i do not wanna have to come back here in an hour and find that there is been another disturbance.
you won't.  you will not have to.
but i would not mind comin' back in an hour just to see your pretty face!
I am going to run to the bathroom real quick.
okey-doke.
i can not fuckin' do this.
are you alright?
fuck.  i think I am going to throw up, i think.  i have not thrown up since i was twenty years old.
i have to go to the bathroom, cynthia.
jesus christ, stanley, you can not go to the bathroom now.  you have exactly one minute before we are back on the air, this is not the time to go to the bathroom.
i'm, i need to go, I am going to --
hey, janet, it is chad.
what is wrong?
nothing's wrong, i just got some guy on the phone on my other line, he is says he works for this guy, this guy who is frank's father --
-- no,no,no what is this? who? what is this guy's name?
yeah, hey. chad.
alright, so I am going to transfer you over to frank's assitant, janet she is going to see what she can do --
thank you, chad, and good luck to you and your mother --
thank you.  thank you very much.
hello?
ok. janet you have phil parma --
hello, phil.
....do you know who i am?
you are a friend of the family i presume?
what?  what does that mean?
nothing special, just a spoke in the wheel.
you talk in rhymes and riddles and ra...rub-adub --- but that does not mean anything to me, see....see...see i used to be smart....i'm quiz kid donnie smith. I am quiz kid donnie smith from the tv --
might of been before my time.
but you are alright now, so what is the what?
what?
that is right.
i used to be smart but now I am just stupid.
brad, dear?
who was it that said: "a man of genius has seldom been ruined but by himself."
-- samuel johnson.
it was the lovely samuel johnson who also spoke of a fella "who was not only dull but a cause of dullness in others."
"the" cause of dullness in others --
picky, picky.
-- and lemme tell you this: samuel johnson never had his life shit on and taken from him and his money stolen -- who took his life and his money?  his parents? his mommy and daddy?  make him live this life like this -- "a man of genius" gets shit on as a child and that scars and it hurts and have you ever been hit by lighting? it hurts and it does not happen to everyone, it is an electrical charge that finds it is way across the universe and lands in your body and your head -- and as for "ruined but by himself," not if his parents take his friggin' life and his money and tell you to do this and do that and if you don't? well, what --
things go round 'n round, do not they?
yes they do, they do, but I will make my dreams come true, you see?  i will.
this sounds sad as a weeping willow.
i used to be smart but now I am just stupid.
shall we drink to that?
"if a brick weighs one pound plus one half brick -- how much does the brick weigh?" "well if subtracting the half of brick from the whole brick you got one half of brick, equals one pound so therefore the brick equals two pounds --" "a little more than kin and less than kind," is hamlet to claudius. "the sins of the father laid upon the children," is merchant of venice but borrowed from exodus 20:5 and "win her with gifts if she respects not words," is two gentleman from verona. where? who? how and why, kids?
"why do not you shut the fuck up," is me to you, chapter right here, verse right now.
what were you saying, stanley?
i was saying...thinking maybe I would get my own quiz show someday, jimmy. just like you!
-- that is right, that is right, and what I am saying, that none of my competitors can say is this:  that there is no need for insight or understanding.  things of the past! gone, over, done. do you realize how fucking miraculous this is? how fucking razor sharp and cutting edge and ahead of it is time this concept is?  I am talking about eliminating insight and understanding as human values.  god damn I am good.  there is no need for insight.  there is no need for understanding.  i have found a way to take any subjective human experience -- in other words -- all the terrible shit or all the great shit that you have had happen to you in your life -- and quickly and easily transform it in the unconscious mind through the subtle and cunning use of language.  the "listener-patient"  settles into a very light, very delicate, conversationally induced state: not a trance, mind you, but a state. a state that is brand new.  the system's state. what did i do?  i realized that concept and put it into practical "get my dick hard and fuck it" use. I am going to build a state for the seducer and the seducee to live, vote, breath, pay takes and party 'till dawn.  I am going to teach methods of language that will help anyone get a piece of ass, tit and tail --
let's talk about --
i just realized this is for television, is not it?  i can not swear up and down like i just did.
it is fine.  i can bleep it out.
i warned you -- i get on a roll...
-- let's talk more about your background --
muffy -- coffee?
I am confused about your past is the thing.
is that still lingering?
-- just to clarify --
so boring, so useless --
i would just want to clear some things up:
thank you, muffy.  funny thing is: this is an important element of, "seduce and destory:" "facing the past is an important way in not making progress," that is something i tell my men over and over --
this is not meant --
-- and i try and teach the students to ask: what is it in aid of?
are you asking me that?
yes.
well, just trying to figure out who you are, and how you might have become --
in aid of what?
I am saying, frank, in trying to figure out who you are --
-- there is a lot more important things I would like to put myself into --
it is all important --
not really.
it is not like I am trying to attack you --
this is how you wanna spend the time, then go, go, go -- you are going to be surprised at what a waste it is -- "the most useless thing in the world is that which is behind me," chapter three --
we talked earlier about your mother. and we talked about your father and his death. and i do not want to be challenging or defeatist here, but i have to ask and i would want to clarify something -- something that i understand --
I am not sure i hear a question in there?
do you remember a miss simms?
i know alotta women and I am sure she remembers me.
she does.  from when you were a boy.
mm. hm.
she lived in tarzana.
an old stomping ground --is this the "attack" portion of the interview, i figured this was coming sooner or later -- is "the girl" coming in for the kill?
no, this is about getting something right and claryfying one of your answers to an earlier question --
go ahead and waste your time.
i was told that your mother died. that your mother died when you were young --
and that is what you have heard?
i talked to miss simms.  miss simms was your caretaker and neighbor after your mother died in 1980.
are you asking me a question?
well i guess the question is this: do you remember miss simms?
you do not want any water?
no...i just... I am so fucked up here alan, i do not know...there's so much...so many things --
are you on drugs right now?
if i talk to you...y'know...if i tell you things...then you are a lawyer, right? you can not say things, you can not tell anyone, it is like the privelage, right? attornery-client, you understand?
not exactly, linda. I am not sure where you are going with this --
like a shrink, like if i go to see a shrink, I am protected, i can say things -- fuck -- i do not know what I am doing --
linda, you are safe.  ok. it is alright. you are my friend.  you and earl are my clients and what you need to talk about will not leave this room, you have something you have to say --
-- i have something to tell you. i have to tell you something. i want to change his will, can i change his will?...i need to ---
you can not change his will.  only earl can change his will.
no, no....no, you see...i never loved him. i never loved him, earl.  when i started, when i met him, i met him and i fucked him and i married him because i wanted his money, do you understand?  I am telling you this now...this I have never told anyone...i did not love him. and now....i know I am in that will, i know, i was there with him, we were all there together when we made that fucking thing and all the money i'ii get -- i do not want it -- because i love him so much now...i've fallen in love with him now, for real, as he is dying, and i look at him and he is about to go, alan, he is dead...he's moments...  i took care of him through this, alan. and what now then?
i do not want him to die, i did not love him when we met, and I have done so many bad things to him that he does not know, things i want to confess to him, but now i do: i love him. i love him so much and i can not stand -- he is going.
what kind of medication are you on right now, linda that is --
this is not any fucking medication talking, this is not -- i do not know. i do not know -- can you give me nothing? you have power of attorney, can you see him, can you, in this final fucking moment, go see him and make sure --- change the fucking will -- i do not want any money, i could not live with myself, this thing I have done -- I have fucking done so many bad things -- i fucked around.  i fucked around on him, i fucking cheated on him, alan. you are his lawyer, our laywer, there, I am his wife, we are married. i broke the conract of marriage, i fucking cheated on him, many times over, i sucked other men's cocks and fuck - fuck - fuck - ....fuck.... other things I have done..
adultery is not illegal -- it is not something that can be used in a court to discredit the will or -- linda. linda. calm down.
i can't.
you do not have to change the will, if what you want to do is get nothing you can renounce the will when it is time.
where will the money go?
well.  considering that there is no one else mentioned in the will...we'd have to go to the laws of intestacy, which is -- as if someone died without a will --
what does that mean?
the money would go to frank.  the court would put the money in the hands of a relative --
-- that can not happen.  earl does not want him to have the money, the things.
-- unless frank is specifically ommitted as a beneficiary that is what will happen.
this is so over-the-top and fucked-up i can hardly stand it.
linda, you just have to take a moment and breath and one thing at a time --
shut the fuck up.
I am trying to help, linda --
shut the fuck up. shut the fuck up.
you need to sober up.
now you must really shut the fuck up, please. shut the fuck up.
linda --
i have to go.
let me call you a car, linda.
shut the fuck up.
ok, ok. I am back.
this is, for not a fresh cup, a great cup of coffee, claudia --
thank you.
did you piss your fuckin' pants, stanley?
shut up -- shut up --
what happend, what is going on?
nothing. nothing happend. go away.
do not tell me to go away, stanley. i am the co-ordinator in this show and you will answer the questions that i ask, you understand?
what is the problem, what is the problem here?
I am fine. nothing.
why did not you answer those questions?
i did not know the answer --
bullshit.  bullshit. you know the answer to every goddamn question and i knew the answer to those questions and I am not half as smart as you are so what happened?
i do not know.
i did not I am fine, I am fine.
stand up.
i said I am fine.
...oh jesus, what the fuck...?
I am fine. I am fine, i just wanna keep playing --
why did you do this?
call 911. call 911 right now.
no, no, no. I am fine. it is small, i wanna keep going --
no, no, c'mon jimmy we need to call this quits and you need to see a doctor.
I am telling you right now, I am fine. i lost my goddamn balance and i could not see a moment, but I am ok.
call 911, mary, do it right now.
you fuckin' do not do that. you do not do it, you cocksucker. I will fuckin' kill you with my barehands.  go. get the fuck fuck -- we are going back and we finish the show --
jimmy you look like you are about to fuckin' die right here --
shut it.  shut yer fuckin' mouth.
are we gonna keep going with this game?
yes.
you are two fuckin' days from the record, get through this and i'ii do anything for you, you just got to get through this --
alright.
hang in there, ok. i love you.
--- yeah, yeah, i get in it in my ear. it is tmj is what it is called technically.
what is that stand for?
tempural-something-mandibular, thing with something, i dunno. but it affects my ear, i do not even know if i have tmj exactly but just very tight, like - it is like a muscle spasm and it is just gets so clenched --
this is my job.
we were just gettin' warmed up. we were just getting started.
well if you listen' to that music too loud again and that fella returns maybe we will share another cup of coffee --
if you are not here for a 422 --
no. no.  do not joke about that. that is not funny, claudia.  please, now.
I am sorry.
ok, then.  keep your chin up and your music down, alright?
yes.  i will.  it was nice to meet you officer jim.
just jim.
yeah, good, ok.
bye, bye, claudia.
good bye.
I am sorry, claudia.
what is it?  did you forget something?
no, no.  i was wondering...man oh man. i think i feel like a bit of a scum-bucket doing this, considering that i came here as an officer of the law and the situation and all this but i think I would be a fool if i did not do something i really want to do which is to ask you on a date.
you wanna go on a date with me?
please, yes.
well...is that illegal?
no.
then...i'd like to go...what do you want to do?
i do not know.  i have not thought about it -- you know what -- that is not true -- i have thought about it.  I have thought about going on a date with you since you opened the door.
really?
yeah.
i thought you were flirting with me a little.
do you wanna go tonight?  i mean, are you working?
no, I am off tonight.  i would lov-like, to go tonight, i can pick you up, i can pick you up here at about what time?  what time?
eight o'clock?
what about ten o'clock, is that too late?  i do not get off and then --
oh sure yes, that is fine, late dinners are good.  should i get dressed up or -- ?
no, no, just casual maybe, maybe i thought -- there is a spot i like to go, it is real nice that overlooks a golf course and the course is lit up at night --
billingsley's?
yeah, you know it? you know billingsley's?
it is my favorite place --
oh, see?  this is great.  ten o'clock.
great, bye.
bye.
doc it is janet.
what is up?
i have to talk to frank, is he nearby?
he is doing the interview with the lady --
i need you to interupt him, i need to get him on the phone with me right away --
what happend?
doc, go get frank and put him on the phone.
c'mon, frank.  what are you doing?
what am i doing?
yeah.
I am quietly judging you.
i do not wanna go, i can not do it this time.
-- the fuck are you talking about?
you have to go, stanley.  you are the smartest.
i do not wanna do it.  why can not one of you do it --
stanley if you do not fuckin' stand up and go over there I am going to beat your ass --
I am sick of being the one, the one who always has to do everything, i do not want to be the one always --
i confuse melancholy and depression sometimes....
mmm.hmm.
you see?
why do not you run along now friend, your dessert is getting cold.
I am sick.
stay that way.
I am sick and I am in love.
you seem the sort of person who confuses the two.
that is right.  that is the first time you are right.  i confuse the two and i do not care.
i love you.  i love you and I am sick.  i'ii talk to you....i'll talk to you tommorrow.  I am getting corrective oral surgery tomorrow.  for my teeth.  for my teeth and for you....for you so we can speak. you have braces.  me too.  me too.  I am getting braces, too.  for you.  for you, dear brad. and i do not have any money.  and i do not have any money now but i'ii get it...i will for you, brad.  i love you, brad.  brad the bartender.  you wanna love me back?  love me back and I will be good to you.  i'ii be god damn good for you. and i will not be mad if you do not know who said what. i will not punish you if you get the answer wrong. i can teach and tell you: samuel johnson.
brad, honey, you have a special secret crush over here i think, do not take him too lovely -- he might get hurt --
you mind your own bussines.
gently, son --
brad, i know you do not love me now --
"it's a dangerous thing to confuse chidlren with angels..."
-- and you wanna know the common element for the entire group, like he asks...i'll tell you the answer: I will tell you, 'cause i had that question.  i had that same question....carbon. in pencil led, it is in the form of graphite and in coal, it is all mixed up with other impurities and in the diamond it is in hard form.  "well...all we were asking was the common element, donnie...but thank you for all that unnecessary knowledge...ahhh, kids!  full of useless thoughts, eh?"  thank you. thank you.  and the book says: "we may be through with the past but the past is not through with us."  and no it is not dangerous to do that.
I am walking towards the elevator's, janet.
fine.  phil, you still there?
what happend?
doc, just - don't, how close are you?
I am about to get off the elevator --
phil, hang in just one more minute ok?  I am going to put you on hold -- doc you still there?
yeah, I am here, I am off the elevator, walking down the hall, now --
time's up.  thank you for the interview.
so you sat it out, that is what you did?
you requested my time and i gave it you, you called me a liar and made accusations. and you say, "if I would known i would not have asked," then it is not an attack?  well, i do not wanna be the sort of fella who does not keep his word.  i gave you my time, bitch. so fuck you now.
you are hurting a lot of people, frank --
-- fuck you.
we are not on display.  i am not a doll. i am not a doll...i' m not silly and cute. I am smart so that should not make me something, something so people can watch how silly it is that he is smart?  i know.  i know things. i know. i have to go to the bathroom i have to go to the bathroom and i have to go.
I am sorry, stanley.
i do not mean to cry, I am sorry.
it is okay, stanley. it is alright.
linda --
what are you doing?
I have got frank...frank earl's son. he's...he asked me to get him and i did --
hang up the phone.
no, linda, you do not understan --
put the fuckin' phone down, hang it up.
you do not do that, you do not call him, you do not know to get involved in the bussiness of his, of his of my family. this is the family, me and him do you understand?  you understand? no one else. there is no one else.  that man, his son does not exist.  he is dead.  he is dead and who told you to do that?
earl asked me, linda, please, linda, I am sorry -- earl asked me --
bullshit. bullshit he did not ask you, he does not want him, he does not want to talk to him, so fuck you that he asked that. there is no one but me and him.
let's go, c'mon, get up --
did we win or lose, i mean --?
i do not know, richard, they need to talk it over --
richard, shut it and keep it down.
if he had not pissed his pants, we woulda won.  we fucking had this game.
listen...listen to me now, phil: I am sorry, sorry i slapped your face. ...because i do not know what I am doing... ...i do not know how to do this, y'know? you understand?  y'know?  i...i'm...i do things and i fuck up and i fucked up....forgive me, ok? can you just...
....it's alright....
tell him I am sorry, ok, yes, you do that, now, I am sorry, tell him, for all the things I have done...i fucked up and I am sorry.... and I am going to turn away and walk now and not look at him not see my man, my earl, I will leave now...and tell him it is ok and I am ok. the whole thing was ok with me -- and i know.
do you know lily?  phil..do you know her?
no.
...lily...?
no.
she is my love...my life...love of it... in school when you are 12 years old. in school, in six grade....and i saw her and i did not go to that school...but we met. and my friend knew her...i would say, "what's that girl?"  "how's that lily?" "oh, she is a bad girl...she sleeps with guys..."  my friend would say this....but then sometime...i went to another school, you see? but then...when high school at the end, what is that?  what is that?  when you get to the end?
graduation?
no, no, the grade...the grade that you are in?
twelve.
yeah...so i go to her school for that for grade twelve...and we meet...she was fuckin...like a doll...porcelain doll...and the hips...child bearing hips...y'know that?  so beautiful. but i did not have sex with anyone, you know?  i was not...i could not do anything...always scared, y'know... she was...she had some boyfriends...they liked her y'know...but i did not like that. i could not get over that i was not a man, but she was a woman. y'see?  y'see i did not make her feel ok about that....i would say, "how many men you been with?" she told me, i could not take it...take that i was not a man....because if i had not had sex with women...like as many women as she had men...then i was weak...a boy.... but i loved her...you understand? ....well, of course, i wanted to have sex with her...and i did and we were together....we met...age twelve, but then again...age seventeen...something, somethin... i did not let her forget that i thought she was a bad...a slut.....a slut i would call her and hit her....i hit her for what she did...but we married...lily and me and we married...but i cheated on her...over and over and over again...because i wanted to be a man and i could not let her be a woman...a smart, free person who was something...my mind then, so fuckin' stupid, so fuckin....jesus christ, what would i think...did i think....? ...for what I have done...she's my wife for thirty eight years...i went behind her... over and over...fucking asshole i am that i would go out and fuck and come home and get in her bed and say "i love you..."  this'z jack's mother. his mother lily...these two that i had and i lost .... and this is the regret that you make...the regret you make is the something that you take...blah...blah...blah... something, something.....  gimme a cigarettee?
she had cancer...from her...in her stomach and i did not go anywhere with her...and i did not do a god thing... for her and to help her....shit...this bitch...the beautiful, beautiful bitch with perfect skin and child bearing hips and so soft...her namewaslilysee?  he liked her though he did, his mom, frank/jack...he took care of her and she died. she did not stick with him and he thinks and he hates me, ok...see...i'm...that's then what you get? ....are you still walkin' in that car...?
what?  say it again...walking in the car?
....getthat on the tv....there...
hello.  frank.  frank tj mackey.
...are you phil...?
yeah. i was trying to get in touch with you.  we got dissconnected.
i got your message.  that you were trying to get me -- right?
yes.  i did not know how to find you. earl asked me, so i looked through the adress books and there was no number, nothing --
is linda here?
she is not here, she went out. I am sorry.  this is all just so, i do not know what, what to do -- your dad asked me to try and track you down. to get you and i did, i called the number -- do you wanna come in?
yeah let's...maybe just stand.
these dogs'll calm down -- you just have to come in --
he is in here.
let's just wait one minute and stay here, okay?
ok.
how long have you taken care of him?
for six months.  I am the day nurse...
uh-huh.  what is going on?
he's...i'm sorry...so sorry...i've seen this before, you know and you don't.... he is going very fast....frank...um....
is he in pain?
i just...he was...but i gave him, i just had to give him a small dose of liquid morphine.  he has not been able to swallow the morphine pills so we now, i just had to go to the liquid morphine... for the pain, you understand?
...uh-huh...
how long...you think?
um...soon tonight...i think, yes? tommorrow...i mean...very soon...very...
when did he go off chemo?
about three weeks ago.
.....have you ever seen this..i mean, never mind, you said --
i work as a nurse, for a proffesion --
uh. huh.
I am really sorry.
he is in here --?
yeah.
I have heard your tapes on the phone.
oh yeah.
when they put me on hold, to talk to you...they play the tapes. i mean: I would seen the commercials and heard about you, but I would never heard the tapes ....
uh. huh.
it is interesting.
mmm.
i do not think i want that.
it will take the pain away.
it is not really pain.
how do we do this, then?
we just do it...we do it and we figure it out and we do as we do, i guess...
do you love me, rose?
you are my handsome man.
I am a bad person.
no.  no.
no, i mean:  I am telling you this, now. you see?  you see i want to make everything clear and clean...and apologize for me....for all the stupid things I have done....that will eat me up....
you feel like you want to be forgiven for your sins?  honey, you are not on your death bed, yet....this kinda talk's going to get you in trouble --
--- don't.  don't.  please.  just... listen to me...honey....  ...i've done...i've cheated on you.
...no...i do not hate you.  do you want talk...do you really want to talk to me and say things and get things figured out, jimmy?
yeah.
the question is not wether or not you cheated on me, the question is how many times have you cheated on me?
will that help?
yeah.
did you ever go out with someone and just....lie....question after question, maybe you are trying to make yourself look cool or better than you are or whatever, or smarter or cooler and you just -- not really lie, but maybe you just do not say everything --
well, that is a natural thing, two people go out on a date, something.  they want to impress people, the other person...or they are scared maybe what they say will make the other person not like them --
so you have done it --
well i do not go out very much.
why not?
I have never found someone really that i think i would like to go out with.
and i bet you say that to all the girls --
no, no.
you wanna make a deal with me?
ok.
what i just said...y'know, people afraid to say things....no guts to say the things that they...that are real or something...
...yeah...
to not do that.  to not do that that we have maybe done -- before --
let's make a deal.
ok.  I will tell you everything and you tell me everything and maybe we can get through all the piss and shit and lies that kill other people....
wow....huh..."...piss and shit..."
what?
you really use strong language.
I am sorry --
-- no, no, it is fine. fine.
i did not mean...it's seems vulgar or something, i know --
it is fine.
I am sorry.
...nothing.  I am sorry...
no, I am sorry.  I am saying I am sorry. i talk like a jerk sometimes --
-- well I am a real...y'know, straight when it comes to that...curse words i just do not use much --
I am sorry.
I am going to run to the bathroom for a minute...maybe just --
ok.
ok.
so....phil....um...i think I am going to step in and try and see him and say something if he can...talk...i mean:
...ok...
can you stand...back...maybe, i mean... just a little bit...in the room is ok, but back from us a little...
yeah.
how many times....it's ok...just say... just say...
i do not even remember...many...twenty... maybe more...not much more...twenty times.
i do not hate you, jimmy.  but i have a couple questions that i wanna ask....
I will answer anything.
was there anyone that i know?
yes.
who?
rose, i do not --
hey.
paula.  ellen.
that is it.
no one else that i know?
no.
how long with ellen?
just once.
how long with paula?
two years...three years...
what about now?
it is over.  i talked to her this morning.
is it over 'cause you are sick?
it is over becuase...for all the the right reasons i hope, what i said.
do you have any children with anyone?
what? no, rose, jesus, no --
well maybe.
i don't.
do you feel better now that you have said this?
i do not know....
I am not mad.  i am, but I am not.  y'know?
i love you so much.
I am not through asking my questions.
why does not claudia talk to you, jimmy?
why, well i think we've, we both do not know...what do you mean?
i think that you know.
maybe...i don't...
hi.
hi.
..sorry...
it is ok.
well.
that felt good to do...to do what i wanted to do.
yeah.
can i tell you something?
yeah, of course.
I am really nervous that you are going to hate me soon.  that you are going to find stuff out about me and you are going to hate me --
-- no, like what, what do you mean?
you are a police officer.  you have so much, so many good things and you seem so together...so all straight and put together without problems.
i lost my gun.
what?
i lost my gun after i left you today and I am the laughing stock of a lot of people.  i wanted to tell you that. i wanted you to know...and it is on my mind and it makes me look like a fool and i feel like a fool and you asked that we should say things, that we should say what we are thinknig and not lie about things and I will tell you that, this: that i lost my gun and I am not a good cop...and I am looked down at...and i know that....and I am scared that once you find that out you might not like me.
oh my god, jim. jim, that was so --
I am sorry --
that was so great what you just said.
i have not been on a date since i was married and that was three years ago....and claudia...whatever you wanna tell me, whatever you think might scare me, won't...and i will listen...i will be a good listener to you if that is what you want...and you know, you know...i will not judge you.... i can do that sometimes, i know, but i won't...i can...listen to you and you should not be scared of scaring me off or anything that you might think I will think or on and on and just say it and I will listen to you....
you do not how fuckin' stupid i am.
it is ok.
you do not know how crazy i am.
it is ok.
I have got troubles.
I will take everything at face value. I will be a good listener to you.
ohhhh i started this, did not i, did not i, did not i, fuck.
say what you want and you will see --
wanna kiss me, jim?
yes i do.
hi.
hi.
..sorry...
it is ok.
...say it, jimmy...
do you know the answer to this?
I am asking you.  I am asking you if you know why clauida will not speak to you....please, jimmy....tell me.
i think that she thinks i may have molested her.
she thinks terrible things that somehow got in her head...that i might have done something.  she said that to me last time...when it was...ten years ago she walked out the door, "you touched me wrong..." "i know that." some crazy thought in her, in her head...
did you ever touch her?
...no....
jimmy, did you touch her?
i do not know.
...jimmy...
i really do not know.
but you can not say....
i do not know what I have done.
yes you do....you do and you will not say.
...i do not know...
you deserve to die alone for what you have done.
i do not know what I have done.
yes you do.
stay here, please do not leave me, please, please, if i said i knew would you stay?
no.
i do not know what I have done.
you should know better.
....now that I have met you.... would you object to never seeing me again?
what?
just say no.
i will not say, no, wait, claudia --
let me go, leave me, let me go, it is ok, please.
please, what is it, please --
just let me walk out, ok?
I am here.  I am here now.  what do you want? do you want anything?
i do not think, he can't...
...just wait...dad...you want something...can you say...
....you have it...easy....you know? you have a father who loves you, huh?
yes.
you know what it is like to come home scared, scared that maybe if you do not have the money you are supposed to go out each day and get that you are going to get beaten....by a belt...he hits me with a belt, stanley....  I am supposed to sell those candy bars, and if i don't, i come home without the money....
....why does he do it...?
cause he hates me....he hates me so much.
it is not right.
i hate it.
I am sorry to put all this on you, stanley --
i have money.
...what...?
i have money to give you.
no.  no.  i have to do this on my own.
i can take you to get money.  i do not need it...i do not need it -- listen to me: i can let you have money so your father will not hit you ever again -- you will have the money because i do not need it.
what is that?
it is frogs.  it is raining frogs.
...fuck you mean, it is raining frogs?
it is raining frogs from the sky.
....what the fuck, what the fuck....
this happens....this is something that happens.
what the fuck is goin' on, what the fuck is going on?
daddy! dad! dad what the hell is goin' on?
stay quiet...stay quiet, son --
let's go, let's go, let's get his money and go -- did you get his money? did you get it?  did you get his money, dad?
no, son...be quiet...be quiet now...
c'mon, dad.  we got to just get his money and go, let's go. let's get the money --
we are not going to do that now.  we are not going to do that now and that is over.
bullshit. bullshit, dad we need to get his money and go.
give us your money man.
son, do not --
bullshit, bullshit dad we gotta get his money --
-- no.
give us your money.
put the gun down, please, boy.
give us your money, kid.
son, please, now....
dad --
please, boy, put it down and it is ok.
it is ok --
we gotta get his money so we can get outta here -- we gotta --
that idea is over now. we are not going to do that now.
daddy, fuck, daddy, do not get mad at me. do not get mad at me --  just gimme your money.
I am not mad, son, i will not be mad at you and it is ok and please put it down and i will not be mad and i will not --
dad.
i - just - thought - that - i - did not want - i - did not - i - did not -
it is ok, boy.
you have to be nicer to me, dad.
go to bed.
i think that you have to be nicer to me.
go to bed.
