well, all right, then.
well, all reet, then.
hey, man, gimme some skin.
shorty, this is laura.
'lo. I have got to freshen up.
now you come back.
that is a fine chick.
fine as may wine.
except she live on the hill and got a grandma.
make it too easy and it am not no fun.
i better not come in.
i am not stupid.
i mean it is late, baby.
i know where you are going.
I am going to bed. i got to work tomorrow, need my rest.
baby, I will call you tomorrow.
what for? i am not white and i do not put out.
sheeet, you ain't. i had aplenty.
...that is not a whore?
that is alright. baby, take your time. sophia's not going anywhere. i told you to walk, do not run.
shhhh! i do not like women that talk.
do not you know, you can not hump the bogart.
eat lead, coppers.
bang, bang. you are dead.
naw, you missed me, copper. try this on for size.
i forgot to tell you I am wearing a bulletproof vest.
the hell you are.
I am tired of always playing the cops. i wanna be bogart sometimes.
you are too small to be bogart.
I am not too short to be cagney.
you like 'em scrambled soft or hard, sweetie?
c'mere.
sweetie, they are almost ready.
you hear me, girl?
you the man.
you better believe it.
you evil this morning.
what is your story, baby?
yeah, girl; that is your story. when you going to holler "rape," sister?
me?
you will, baby -- if the time come.
lemme feed you, sweetie, while they hot.
malcolm, you can be anything you want. you got class and you are smart.
all them books you read and you still do not know nuthin.
i do know i love you.
let's go.
why? is it because of your white gal? folks say you are running around town with her.
save it, baby. save it for mr. right, 'cause your grandma's smarter than ya think.
it is the same questions, mrs. little. since the death of your husband --
murder.
-- there is a serious question as to whether --
these are my children. mine. and they am not no question. none.
i think sometimes, mrs. little, candor is the only kindness.
all of your children are delinquent, mrs. little, and one, at least, malcolm is a thief.
get out.
your control over your children, therefore --
did you hear me?!
you will regret this, mrs. little.
if you do not move out through that door, you are going to be past all regretting.
we were parceled out, all five of us. i went to this reform school and lived at this woman's house. she was in charge.
this is your room, malcolm. i know you will keep it clean.
this is malcolm, our new guest. we will treat him like a brother.
i was special. the only colored kid in class. i became a sort of mascot. like a pink poodle.
i did not know then that i was a nigger.
he is bright.
they talked about me like
good grades. fine athlete. president of his class.
i was not there. like i was some kind of pedigreed dog or a horse. like i was invisible.
sit down. we am not fixing to eat you. you look brand new in town. pretty handy with a bottle.
he had it coming.
what they call you?
red, and i am not no punk.
you better not be. cause if a cat toe you down in this town, you better stand up or make tracks.
man live by his rep.
that is a fact. what you do, boy?
I am working trains. selling.
bet you like that shit.
keeps me out of the army.
when they want your ass, will not nothing keep you out.
not this boy... i am not fighting their war. i got my own. right chere. heard tell you are a good man to know.
heard where?
where i come from. boston.
sombitch and i am not never been to beantown.
man's rep travels.
how 'bout that?
you am not bullshitting me, is you, boy?
my papa taught me one thing: do not never bullshit a west indian bullshit artist.
is your papa west indian?
no, my mama. she is from grenada.
i like you, country.
yeah, got to do something about you.
you putting a hurtin' on my vision.
where can i get a hold of you?
you can't. I will get a hold of you.
lemme write it down for you.
do not never write nothing down. file it up here, like i do.  'cause if they can not find no paper they am not got no proof. ya dig?
yes, sir.
did you just now con me?
yes, sir.
why?
'cause i want in. and it do not take a lot to know you there, daddy.
i like your heart and i like your style. you might just do, little. lessen you got to git back to that train job.
i done told the man what he could do with his train.
when?
just now.
you looking good, little. real clean. clean as the board of health. but you missing something.
what?
frisk me, baby. give me a real pat down.
how is it feel?
solid, daddy.
okay, baby. now you outfitted. you ready to tackle the street?
let 'em come. I am ready.
i told you less paper, less trouble.
I am working on it.
i keep all my numbers in my head. I have never written any down.
it hit?
nnnnnnn!
am not nuthin' in the world to give you that real deep cool. like girl. you there?
I am there, daddy. wheww. I am cool enough to kill.
bet you are.
baby, i was gonna give it to you.
well, bitch you move too slow.
sometimes you got a big ugly mouth.
yeah, and I am putting my money where my ugly mouth is. I am putting you back in the numbers right now.  baby, what is today?
1, 2, 8; 2, 8, 1.  i git 'em all?
I will take your goddam bet.
i thought you said we were going to the movies last night.
i say a lot of things.
and like a fool i believe it.
do your job, get me a bourbon on the rocks and a pack of lucky's.
you know that gal?
mind your own goddamn business... she comes in a lot?
'bout every other night, red.
with him?
she know?
if she got eyes, she do.
is she hooking?
not yet. but the way things going, that boy gonna turn her out any day.
daddy, where is my money?
what you talking?
you owe me six big ones.
1, 2, 8 hit, did not it?
you din't have no 1, 2, 8.
was you that high? old man, i threw the slats at you. i said to combinate me.
you never had it.
the bitch was there.
shit, what else she gonna say?
then skip it, man. but you slipping, baby. you done slipped.
oh, sit down, man. what you tasting? I am buying.
i am not drinking hot piss with you. come on, sam.
you are a damn liar.
you _took_ me, you bastard, and now I am taking you.
it is me or you, am not it, pops?
you know it.
I will give you back the 600.
i do not want your money.
I am wearing, archie.
there is two guns on you.
and every cat's watching, am not they? it is a toe-down.
that is what it is. walk on out.
let billie finish.
now.
you had the number.
baby, i got to let this old man win. keep the faith, and tell billie I will see her later.
the dirty yellow rat bastard.
do not push it. you way ahead. you back on top. that boy loves you, man.
what you say?
he gave it to you, archie. he did.
yeah and get a slave, too, huh, baby?
i am not doing bad.
man, the name musicians am not got shit. how you going to have something? i need a stake, a bundle, a grand. my woman can not afford it; my homey am not got it. how about you baby? what you got?
jesus, red, she is just a kid.
jesus am not got nothin' to do with this.
I am half wop, half nigger and am not afraid of no one.
what can you do?
that am not bad.
tell him about baldy.
then i put him to bed and pour talcum powder on him like a baby. he gets his jollies off.
so what about him?
so? the man got silver, china, rugs --
might be all right.
might be, shit. man, i know this town. i got my own fences. who the hell are you? who put you in charge?
you want to be the head man?
that is right.
head nigger in charge?
I am the man.
okay, baby. let's flip for it. flip this.
your turn, rudy. you want me to flip for you?
jesus christ, no. okay, okay. you got it, you got it! you are the boss.
do not never try to cross someone who am not afraid to die.
you the man!
what did you do, homey, palm it?
yeah.
palmed it right in the goddam chamber.
jesus christ, homey, you are nuts.
the average first offender gets two years for burglary. we were all first offenders. that is what sophia and peg drew --
two years in the women's reformatory at framingham.
but our crime was not burglary. it was balling white girls. they gave us the book.
burglary, count one -- 8 to 10 years; count two, 8 to 10 years; count three, 8 to 10 years...
fourteen counts of 8 to 10 years.
the sentences to run concurrently.
shorty thought he hit us with 114 years till i explained what concurrently meant. it meant a minimum sentence of 10 years hard labor at the charlestown state prison. the date was february 1946. i was not quite 21. i had not yet begun to shave.
do you know what a friend you have in jesus, son?
preacher, take your tin jesus and the virgin mary, both, and shove 'em.
who the hell are you?
put it in a cup of water. it is nutmeg.
man, what do you want?
you need something. it is not a reefer, but it will help some.
man, get outa my face. i am not nobody's punk.
if you am not trying to punk me, what is your hype?
i can show you how to get out of prison. and it is no hype.
talk, daddy, I am listening. hey that am not bad. you got some more?
that is the last stuff you will ever get from me.
what did you give it to me for then?
'cause you needed it. 'cause you could not hear me without it.
you am not lying.
when you go busting your fists against a stone wall, you are not using your brains. cause that is what the white man wants you to do. look at you.
putting all that poison in your hair.
man, you been locked up too long, everybody conks. all the cats.
why? why does everybody conk?
cause i do not want to walk around with my head all nappy, looking like --
like what? looking like me? like a nigger?! why do not you want to look like what you are? what makes you ashamed of being black?
i am not said I am ashamed.
leggo. i got to wash it out.
let it burn. maybe you will hear me then.
sure, burn yourself, pain yourself, put all that poison into your hair, into your body -- trying to be white.
man, i do not want to hear all that.
i thought you was smart. but you just another one of them cats strutting down the avenue in your clown suit with all that mess on you. like a monkey. and the white man sees you and he laughs. he laughs because he knows you am not white.
the question is, who are you? you are in the darkness, but it is not your fault. elijah muhammad can bring you into the light.
elijah who?
elijah muhammad can get you out of prison. out of the prison of your mind. maybe all you want is another fix. i thought you were smart.
what you sniffing around for? i told you i gave you your last fix.
i am not never seen a cat like you. am not you scared talking like that in front of an ofay?
what is he going to do to me he am not already done?
you the only cat do not come on with that "whatcha know, daddy" jive; and you do not cuss none.
i respect myself. a man cuss because he has not got the words to say what is on his mind.
tell you this: you am not no fool.
do not con me. do not try...
okay, okay.
do not con me.
what do you do with your time?
i read. i study. because the first thing a black man has to do is respect himself. respect his body and his mind. quit taking the white man's poison into your body: his cigarettes, his dope, his liquor, his white woman, his pork.
that is what mama used to say.
your mama had sense because the pig is a filthy beast: part rat, part cat, and the rest is dog.
come on, daddy, pull my coat. what happens if you give all that up? you get sick or somethin'? i pulled a hustle once and got out of the draft.
I am telling you god's words, not no hustle. I am talking the words of elijah, the black man's god. I am telling you, boy, that god is black.
what? everybody knows god is white.
but everything the white man taught you, you learned. he told you you were a black heathen and you believed him. he told you how he took you out of darkness and brought you to the light. and you believed him. he taught you to worship a blond, blue-eyed god with white skin -- and you believed him. he told you black was a curse, you believed him. did you ever look up the word black in the dictionary?
what for?
did you ever study anything was not part of some con?
what the hell for, man?
go on, fool; the marble shooters are waiting for you.
okay, okay. show me, man.
i can not make out that shit.
soiled with dirt, foul; sullen, hostile, forbidding -- as a black day. foully or outrageously wicked, as black cruelty. indicating disgrace, dishonor or culpability.
that is bullshit. that is a white man's book. am not all these white man's books?
they sure am not no black man's books in here.
then what you telling me to study in them for?
you got to learn everything the white man says and use it against him. the truth is laying there if you smart and read behind their words. it is buried there. you got to dig it out.
man, how'm i going to know the ones worth looking at?
man, I am studying in the man's book. i do not dig half the words.
look 'em up and and out what they mean.
where am i gonna start?
start at the beginning. page one, the first one. here --
aardvark, noun. an earth pig; an ant- eating african mammal. man, that sounds like the dozens.
read it and keep on reading.
ole pete am not much in the head, but he can lay in there with the wood.
lemme tell you about history: black history. you listening?
you pitch, baby; I will ketch.
the first men on earth were black. they ruled and there was not one white face anywhere. but they teach us that we lived in caves and swung from trees. black men were never like that.
sure, white man throw us a bone and that is supposed to make us forget 400 years.
a black man playing big league ball is something.
i told you to go behind the words and dig out the truth. they let us sing and dance and smile -- and now they let one black man in the majors. that do not cancel out the greatest crime in history. when that blue- eyed devil locked us in chains -- 100,000,000 of us -- broke up our families, tortured us, cut us off from our language, our religion, our history.
little.
no. that is the name of the slave- master who owned your family. you do not even know who you are. you are nothing. less than nothing. a zero. who are you?
I am not malcolm little and I am not satan.
who are you?
allah has sent us a prophet, a black man named elijah muhammad. for if god is black, malcolm --
then the devil is white.
i knew you would hear me. the white man is the devil. all white men are devils.
i sure met some.
no. elijah muhammad does not say "that white man is a devil." he teaches us that the white man is the devil. all white men.
the body is a holy repository.
i will not touch the white man's poison: his drugs, his liquor, his carrion, his women.
a muslim must be strikingly upright. outstanding. so those in the darkness can see the power of the light.
i will do it.
but the key to islam is submission. that is why twice daily we turn to mecca, to the holy of holies, to pray. we bend our knees in submission.
i can't.
for evil to bend its knee, admit its guilt, implore his forgiveness, is the hardest thing on earth --
i want to, bembry, but i can't.
-- the hardest and the greatest.
i can't.
for evil to bend its knee, admit its guilt, implore his forgiveness, is the hardest thing on earth --
i want to, bembry, but i can't.
-- the hardest and the greatest.
i do not know what to say to allah.
have you ever bent your knees, malcolm?
yeah. when i was picking a lock to rob somebody is house.
tell him that.
i do not know how.
you can grovel and crawl for sin, but not to save your soul. pick the lock, malcolm; pick it.
i want to. god knows i want to.
why do not you just ask your question?
you have been talking about the disciples. what color were they?
i do not think we know for certain.
they were hebrew, were not they?
that is right.
as jesus was. jesus was also a hebrew.
just what is your question?
what color were the original hebrews?
i told you we do not know for certain.
then we do not know that god was white.
now just a moment, just a moment --
but we do know that the people of that region of asia minor, from the tigris-euphrates valley to the mediterranean, are dark-skinned people. I have studied drawings and photographs and seen newsreels. i have never seen a native of that area who was not black.
just what are you saying?
I am not saying anything, preacher. I am proving to you that god is black.
how many you turning out?
500.
make it 1000. we got a lot of fishing to do.
brother malcolm, i want you to meet brother earl. he just joined the nation.
i got to hand it to you, homey. that is the best preacher hype i ever did hear.
it is not a hype, shorty. and i meant what i said: join us.
come on, baby. i do not pay that shit no mind.
the honorable elijah muhammad says you should pay it all your mind. if you got a mind.
baby, i love you. take it easy, greasy. how about a snort?
I have been clean for twelve years, shorty.
you is something, homeboy. my trouble is -- i am not had enough stuff yet, i am not et all the ribs i want and i sure am not had enough white tail yet.
how is the rest of the gang? you seen anyone?
well, sammy's dead. yeah, fell over in the bed with a chick twenty years younger than him. had twenty-five grand in his pocket.
take it easy, baby.
that really you, red?
you saved my life, archie. running me out of harlem. when i think how close we came to gunning each other down, i have to thank allah.
i was not going to shoot you, baby. it was just my rep, that is all. and do not shit me now, but did you have that number? tell me.
i do not know. it does not matter. the thing is we got to get you back on your feet.
yeah. i got a couple a new angles am not been figured yet. all i need's a stake and a  chance --
can you use a few bucks? i am not got much, but --
no, man, I am doing okay. thanks.
take it easy. lay down and do not think about it.
yeah.
you could of been something, archie, but the devil got to you.
brother bembry, can we fix it so our loudspeaker is heard on the street?
I am sure we can. this is a new sister, sister betty.
what?
she ate.
sure I will speak to your class. but I am a hard man on women. you want to know why?
if you want to tell me.
if you want to tell me.
women are deceitful. they are untrustworthy flesh. I have seen too many men ruined or tied down or messed up by women.
women talk too much. to tell a woman not to talk is like telling jesse james not to carry a gun or a hen not to cackle. and samson, the strongest man that ever lived, was destroyed by the woman who slept in his arms.
shall i tell my sisters that we oppose marriage?
what points?
that you have not time for either marriage or eating --
considering today's standards of animal raising and curing meats, i do not fully understand the restriction on pork.
let me explain. no. I will do better than that. I will show it to you. scientifically. but it is demonstration purely in the interest of science, you understand?
i see your point.
so it is not a matter of the breeding conditions or preparation of the meat. the meat itself is foul.
could we sit down someplace?
I am sorry. I have had you on your feet for hours.
you have been on your feet for days. and did not even finish your salad.
that is something i have not done in fifteen years.
what?
sat down with a pretty girl and had an ice cream soda.
how do you like it?
delicious.
let's talk about you for a change.
there is nothing to talk about.
oh, yes, there is. i know a lot about you. brother bembry briefed me.
oh? purely scientific interest I am sure.
you are from detroit, near where i come from. you majored in education at tuskegee. you are studying nursing and having trouble with your family.
i can handle it.
they want you to quit the muslims or they will not pay your tuition, is not that it?
you have enough worries of your own.
no, good sisters are rare. we need every one. tell me something: how tall are you?
why do you ask?
just an idle question.
if it is just idle, i will not answer it.
but brother bembry says I am tall enough for a tall man.
how old are you, betty?
there is a few things you do not know about women, brother malcolm. they are possessive and vain.
are you?
and dogged when i set my mind to something.
what have you set your mind to?
being a good muslim, a good nurse and a good wife.
I am minister malcolm x. two witnesses saw him brought in. he was not brought out.
you heard the sergeant. outside.
who the hell are they?
brothers of brother johnson.
eddie, let's see that blotter.
only a pig could do a thing like that.
watch your tongue, boy.
do not you call me boy, you pig. letting a man bleed like that.
i want to also, but until we are instructed by the messenger to do so, we will just wait and pray.
I am tired of praying.
that is enough, brother earl.
what can i do for you?
mr. x, i was out there tonight. i saw what you did. i want to be a muslim. i am not never seen a negro stand up to the police like that.
do you?
not exactly, but i want to be one, like you.
i admire your enthusiasm but you should never join any organization without first checking it out thoroughly.
we need more young warriors like yourself, stick around and we shall see if your heart is true.
mr. x, i will not make you out a liar.
if i surprise you, let me explain. menial work teaches us humility.
let me do it then.
no, each of us must relearn that work is the only worthwhile thing. allah has given you a great gift. use it wisely, never forgetting that we are nothing, while he is all.
allah akbar.
I am in detroit.
i know.
at a gas station.  will you marry me?
yes.
did you hear what i said?
yes i did. did you hear my answer?
i think so. can you catch a plane?
yes. did you eat?
i love you.
it will not be easy.
just hold me.
it will be rough.
hush your mouth.
I will be away a lot.
you are with me even when you are away.
i never told you, but when i first saw you on the podium, cleaning your glasses, i felt sorry for you. nobody as young as you should be that serious. but i do not think that anymore.
what do you think?
the simplest thing in the world: i want to have a lot of babies with you. dear heart, i love you.
mr. x is a demagogue. he has no place to go, so he exaggerates. he is a disservice to every good law-abiding negro in the country. can i ask you a question?
please, go ahead.
mr. malcolm x, why do you teach black supremacy? why do you teach hate?
for the white man to ask the black man if he hates him is just like the rapist asking the raped, or the wolf asking the sheep, "do you hate me!" the white man is in no moral position to accuse anyone of hate.
stop me if I am wrong. i "polarize the community." i "erroneously appraise the racial picture."
you put it very well.
you left one phrase out. another educated kneegrew said to me and i quote: "brother malcolm oversimplifies the dynamic interstices of the negro subculture." would you agree?
entirely.
well, i have this to say. do you know what a negro with a b.a., an m.a. and a ph.d. is called -- by the white man? I will tell you. he is called a nigger.
let him finish.
thank you. now the negro in the field caught hell all day long. he was beaten by the master; he lived in a shack, wore castoff clothes and hated his master. if the house caught fire, he would pray for a wind. if the master got sick, he would pray that he would die. and if you said to him, "let's go, let's separate", he would yell, "yeah, man, any place is better than this." you have got a lot of field negroes in america today. I am one.
I will have it tomorrow.
brother benjamin, do not rush, it has to be exact.
you are now benjamin 2x.
all praises are due to allah. thank you, brother minister.
come, sit with us.
thank you, brother; sister, how are you?
please make way, please --
can i ask you something?
sure, man.
are you elijah's pimp?
what?
"his greatest greatness."
say what you are saying.
if you do not know, man, then i feel sorriest for you.
why are you looking at me like that?
because you are in trouble.
how do you know?
i do not want to bring my troubles home. you know that.
I am not made of glass.
i just want to sit here and be still.
we have never had a fight. not a real one. but we are going to have one right now if you do not talk about it.
talk about what?
the talk is everywhere!
there is always talk, always been talk, and always will be talk. do not they say how I am trying to take over the nation, how I am getting rich off the nation?
we will get to that, too, but this is not just talk any more.
"los angeles, upi: elijah muhammad, 67-year-old leader of the black muslim movement, today faced paternity suits from two former secretaries who charged he fathered their four children..."
there are always slanders, always lies. you are reading the devil's lies. can not you see they are trying to bring us down, bring down the messenger.
"both women, in their 20's, charged they had had intimacies with elijah muhammad since 1957..."
i was going to talk to bembry about it tonight.
to bembry? is bembry your friend?
woman, have you lost your mind? what is the matter with you?
no, what is the matter with you? wake up! are you so dedicated that you have blinded yourself? are you so committed you cannot face the truth? bembry is the editor of the newspaper you established. ask him why your name has not been in "muhammad speaks" in over a year? ask him why you rate front page in every paper in the country, but not a single sentence in your own.
I am not interested in personal publicity. our people know what I am doing.
do you know what bembry is doing? you are so blind, everyone can see this but you!!!
bembry saved my life. the honorable elijah muhammad saved my life.
a long time ago. you have repaid them many times over. ask them why they have new cars and houses full of new furniture.
is that what this is about? material wealth?
what do we have, malcolm. a broken- down jalopy and the clothes on our backs. we do not even own our own home. what about our children? what about me? you do not even own life insurance.
the nation will provide for you and the children if anything happens to me.
will they? are you sure? are you sure or are you blind?
dear heart, you have to help me. I am raising our kids practically by myself, while you are running all over the world. you do not know how many times the girls ask me when is daddy coming home?
what do you want me to do? our people need me.
we need you too!
what do you want me to do?
open your eyes, you can face death 24 hours a day; but the possibility of betrayal never enters your mind. if you will not do that for yourself do it for us.
brother minister he often talked about you. he loves you, loves you like his own son. says you are the best, his greatest minister but that someday you would leave him and turn against him.
he told you that?
yes sir.
are you sure?
yes, i am, brother minister. all i want is support for my children. he should provide for his children. that is all i want.
allah will provide.
now about our coming up in the world a little. you are not naive. you are a man of the world. the movement's grown; we have grown with it. you know folks. they want their leaders to be prosperous. one hand washes the other.
"i'm telling you god's words, not to hustle."
you want a new car? you want a new house? is that it? it is the money, right?
did you see the papers today?
yes, sir, i did.
that was a very bad statement. the country loved this man, and you have made it hard in general for muslims.
another one?
how long has this been going on?
all day since you and betty left. brother minister, i have to level with you. they gave me a mission. but i could not do it. i love y'all.
what mission?
to wire your car so it would explode when you turned the ignition. the ministers say you are spreading untruths about the messenger. the ministers say you are a great hypocrite, judas, benedict arnold. the ministers say your tongue should be cut out and delivered to the messenger's doorstep.
what does sidney say?
I am with you, brother minister.
no. you will be marked for death.
let me die then.
i will not let myself come between you and your father. go home.
you are my father.
and do not come back.
get some sleep.
you have to sleep for three.
I am sorry. i have not been the best husband or father.
shhh!
families should not be separated. I will never make another long trip without you and the kids. we will all be together.
dear heart, i love you.
we had the best organization that black people ever had and niggers ruined it.
i do not care about myself, my wife and four children were sleeping in their beds, they have nothing to do with this.
let's get out of this cold.
brother earl.
malcolm, where are you? we have been calling all over the city.
I am going to try and get some work done tonight.
let some of us come down there.
no, that will not be necessary. I will be all right.
i wish you would listen to us. what about the meeting tomorrow? we need to frisk people.
i do not want folks to be searched, it makes people uncomfortable. if i can not be safe among my own kind, where can i be? allah will protect me.
stop calling us. leave us alone. leave us alone. I will kill you. I will kill you.
betty it is me. it is me.
malcolm, they keep calling, threatening us. I am going crazy, when is this going to stop?
do not answer the phone. it is all right. it is all right. nothing is going to happen to anybody.
dear heart, where are you?
at the hilton. the girls asleep?
i just put them to bed. can we come to the meeting tomorrow?
i do not think that is such a good idea.
is the program ready?
no, brother minister.
why not? you have had ample time, you and the sister.
folks are sitting out there today, not next week, expecting to hear our program.
next week, brother minister.
has the reverend called? is he going to show?
reverend chickenwing called last night and said he would not be able to attend.
so now we have no opening speaker? why was not i informed last night?
i called sister betty, she did not tell you?
since when do you start telling sister betty my business? since when? she has nothing to do with this. you tell me, not her, not anybody else.
i assumed...
what did i tell you about assuming?
brother minister, what is wrong?
the way i feel, i ought not to go out there today. in fact, I am going to ease some of this tension by telling the black man not to fight himself -- that is all a part of the white man's big maneuver, to keep us fighting amongst ourselves, against each other. I am not fighting anyone, that is not what we are here for.
let's cancel.
is my family here yet?
down front as always.
make it plain.
and now, without further remarks, i present to you one who is willing to put himself on the line for you --
