where are you going?
well I have kind of had my fill of the place, you know what i mean?
you must be going somewhere.
i do not have any real destination. I am just going south.
mind if i come along for the ride?
I am stranded out here.
hop in.
where did you learn to fight like that? jim  i read a book.
well, you saved me from a bad situation. thanks.  i admit this is...unusual.
are you a regular there?
are you serious?  my boyfriend ditched me...
ditched you?
we were fighting - i told him to let me out.  so where are you headed?
bartender said there are motels south of here.
what would your - boyfriend - think?
screw him!
you do not seem afraid of much.
not with this...
so where are you from?
up north.
where up north?
seattle.
you got any family?
no...
you are the mysterious type, right?
mind if i turn out the light?
no...
you know, you do not seem afraid of much either.  how do you know I am not going to try to rape you?
figure you would have tried it already.
you always carry a gun with you?
no.
only on dates?
alright, where is she?
and who are you?
who am i?  I am going to be your worst fucking nightmare until you start breaking it down for me.  you understand? where did you get the car!
I am done talking until i get a lawyer.
no - that is not it!  she said her boyfriend stranded her up there! i did not ask her to come with me!
did you have sex with her?
what?
did you have sexual intercourse with the woman in question?
no.  it was not like that!
then what did you do, play canasta?
anyhow...	you wake up and she is gone. but--  --this is my favorite part--  she leaves you the keys to a brand new beemer.
she stole my car!!
bullshit...
did you report it stolen?
so...  to get the car back, you break into her house.
i did not break in - the back door was open!
yeah, it was opened -  with a goddamn screwdriver!!!
you can cut the shit, asshole--
we have got kidnapping, grand theft auto, burglary, and two counts of murder on you, and I am going to see to it personally that it sticks!
where am i going?
county jail - get in.
what the hell happened?
he busted the back window with his feet, and fled on foot.  we pursued him into this warehouse - but he is - gone, south - maybe a couple of miles if he is fast -
why did not you call for back-up! what were you thinking, jesus!!!
it happened too fast.  he was in the back, quiet and calm and boom! he was out - and gone.  we...we fanned out...stanton must have let his guard down!
i do not know how you are used to doing things, marvosa, but it sounds like some damn sloppy work to me!
oh for chrissakes it could have happened to anyone of--
zydowski.  it is about time.
you will not like this.  i ran the prints from the house.  no police record on your suspect--at least not in our files. but there is a match on the girl.
yeah?
her prints belong to stephanie field, convicted for soliciting two years ago.
what?  wait a minute -
that is not all.  according to the computer - she died of a drug overdose last year.
that is great zydowski, you tech guys are really on the ball.  harding - call the print lab at the fbi, run the prints through their library, see if it is less screwed-up than ours...
what the hell is this marvosa!!
he must have got the keys... off stanton.
great. well that changes a lot...
I am going to look for him on my own. fuck this.
we are all going to fan out!  c'mon, let's do a sweep of the alleys -
do not take any chances.  call for back-up this time!
do not worry -
it is marvosa -
what do you need?
the shit just hit the fan, brother. that bitch has a partner and he got away from me.
he walked in on fleming and took him out.
so what?
so what is they have enough to shut us down!
you mean shut your ass down!
no i mean ours, motherfucker! if i go down everyone's going with me - you and your crew especially! you will not get protection, you will not get the trucks - nothing!
what?
jim trudell!  bravo company!
tubbs, it is me.
well where are ya, what are ya, drunk?
no...i'm in some trouble...
well...whatsamatter?  run in with the law?
yeah...
you are drunk.  you know, it is been a long time and I would love to catch up, but i really got to -
tubbs listen!  i do not know anywhere else to go!  i need your help!
just what did you get yourself into, jimmy?
it's...it's a long story.  can we meet somewhere?
jesus, man...
please...
did you hit him?
i did not hit shit!
the guy was looking for trouble, shoving people around, being an asshole...
and he took a swing at you?
yeah...the guy was psycho - i was just tying to protect the girl...
did he harm the girl?
hell, he probably raped her in the lot, dumped the body somewhere. that is what he was like - a real wacko.
mm-hmm...that's not what the bartender told us.
now you listen to me hay-seed! if you do not want to spend a year in jail for making a false report you will start giving me straight answers, you got that!!
alright, alright!  we were just fucking with him..you know?
i was just having a little fun -
and what did he do to the girl?
nothing!  he did not do nothing!
what did the six-toes have to say?
sarah williams left the bar with trudell on her own.
so? girls left bars with ted bundy too. it does not rule out foul play.
but what was a hair dresser from malibu doing 60 miles away in some dive bar?
i do not know, shit.  maybe she was looking for love...
find out for me.
fine...
captain there is someone here to see you - he is waiting in your office.
who is it?
i do not know - but he is from the fbi.
captain doyle?
yeah?
what can i do for you?
your department contacted our agency regarding information on sarah williams.
yeah - i heard - nothing came up.
we did a little digging on jim trudell at sergeant zydowski's request. he is 31, no priors, and he is been working for the military for ten years.
we ran the i.d.  i could have told you that.
i do not think you understand. i do not mean shuffling papers in an office, i mean jim trudell worked classified assignments, special forces...sabotage...until last year. he was brought up on charges of espionage, but the charges were later dropped, and he sprang the service.
yeah?..well what are you getting at? you saying he has an agenda down here?
our agency monitors all threats very carefully, and there is good reason to believe jim trudell has the training, the connections, and the experience to present a clear threat to the public if he remains at large.
if what you are saying is true, then why would he have killed two police officers? a man like that would want to lay low, if he was planning some kind of damn sabotage mission!
that is the point.  he slipped up, and he is desperate now.  and that means he is all the more dangerous.
I am sure if our departments cooperate we can find out the truth.
cooperate?
every step of the way.
if you guys want in, fine.  just remember this is our jurisdiction.
let's roll -
right behind you.
operator, I would like to make a collect call - 213-467-0972...
this is tubbs. sorry i can not answer the phone, I am out square dancing. leave a message--
alright, we know who we are looking for.  play it cool until the time is right to make a move.  let's not pull any gangbusters shit or we will lose him again.
or worse, we will have a hostage situation on our hands.
if you can trail him to a remote area do it. we all want a piece of him but let's keep our heads and stay within the law - we got people everywhere out here.
these crowds are going to make it a bitch!
I am sure you can handle it.  now i want to do an alley-to alley sweep beginning at the north and south ends from marine to 30th.  foot beat units continue on the boardwalk.
I will take the south end -
fine -
you mind if i ride with you?
yeah, stick around, you might learn something.
yeah?
where are you?
we are by ozone...
you set to go -
what do you think?
alright, stay on the phone.
where is he?!!
i lost him - i heard shots - that way!!
holy shit -
hello tubbs.  can i come in?
yeah, c'mon in...you scared the hell out of me!
no...
look, jimmy, you know, i have not seen you in eight years, you show up to my door like you are on drugs - now the least you could do is tell me what the fuck is going on!
and?...
i killed them.
oh, shit, shit, shit - i do not know about all this! you sure?!
yeah I am sure!  i did it with my own hands!
jimmy, do you realize what you did? man that is like death penalty shit -
it was self-defense, tubbs! they are dirty!  i walked in on something, i do not know what -
you got to turn yourself in. before it is too late -
they are inside the department, they are everywhere - it is not safe.
shit, you know what happens to me if I am harboring a fugitive?  i already think they are on to me! i thought you were the phone police for chrissake!
i have nowhere else to go, tubbs, i need your help!
oh man...what happened?
i do not know.  but I am in trouble. I am all over the papers. i have to figure out what is going on.
alright...alright...you've saved my ass enough times.  what do you want to do?
i hope you have not lost your touch with this stuff.
shit, what i have now made our setup in angola look like tinker toys.  I have been skipping through internal revenue records all day. i even have video strip poker. you want to check it out?
I have got a better idea...
ok...where do you want to start?
ok, I am logged on to the municipal network.  I am showing sixteen people with the name sarah williams in l.a. county.  none of them live in hollywood.  do you remember the address?
1490...breckinridge...
let's see what we got...
donut?
no thanks.  how do you know they can not catch you on this thing?
i don't, but I am pretty sure. it is a long story but i cloned a cellular linkup with a binary code scrambler and sent it through the phone network mainframe.  if they start a trace it will be to a pic'n'save on pico.
i knew i could count on you.
i got a lot of free time, you know what i mean?
ok...county tax records...they're saying 1490 breckinridge is owned by... an atlantic trust corporation...they have a p.o. box in d.c.
how about marvosa and the others?
I will access the lapd mainframe, but we got to be careful - that one's kind of tricky -
so...what happened to you, jimmy?  i figure you would be in some far off place somewhere, living on the edge like the good old days.
i gave all that up.  i got tired of the lies. they wanted to stuff me in levenworth to cover their asses on a botched assignment.  it got so i did not know who to trust anymore...  ...some things never change, i guess.
you know this time, there is nobody that is going to cover your ass. you are over your head this time.
what else is new?
did you read today's paper?
no zydowski i did not read today's paper - it is just going to irritate the hell out of me.
well read this -
something i do not already know?
well it is just kind of a coincidence, is not it?  stanton and fleming, both started in '83, both in area six...both in vice?
vice...you think they had something to do with this dead hooker?
could explain why fleming was there.
speak of the devil.
they found the getaway mercedes a parking garage north of venice. it checks out.
good! we will get it to the nearest outlying station and hold it for prints - we are on our way -  you coming?
and where the hell is marvosa?
he said he was following up some lead.
well let's get his ass to the garage!  some lead...
what is this?
our getaway car.  you said a cell phone?
what?
when did you join the force?  you know, the police force, the place you work...
nineteen eighty four.  what fucking difference does it make?
did you start out area six?
yeah...
so you must have known fleming... and stanton -
yeah i saw 'em around.  they worked vice.
well do not you think that is odd?
what?
it is kind of a funny coincidence, is not it?
gotta come from somewhere...
where do you come from, marvosa?
just wondering if maybe they had a thing going with this hooker, you know, some connection.
hey what they did on their time was their business, you know?  i just want to catch this scumbag, wherever he is.
captain?
yeah?
lapd data center reports a breach on the system.  an outside hacker has accessed files on detectives fleming and stanton...and yours too, marvosa.
outside hacker?  what the fuck are you talking about?
that is got to our secret agent man! do we have an address?
something wrong with you marvosa?
it is just...catching up with me, you know?
well why do not you sit this one and get some rest...you look like shit. cut to int tubbs' apartment - night
ok...marvosa makes calls to this fax number overseas.  and that is switzerland's country code.
a bank?
who knows?  maybe he is ordering army knives. i can not access that, but look what we have here...these are the account records for fleming and marvosa.
both at the same bank...
and look at the balances...these are not police salaries...
ahh, shit.  we are pretty much tapped out.  I am getting denied access all over the place...
it is not very much to go on...is there anything else we can check?
shit, we just started.  but i better log out of this.
what is going on here?
you will find out - soon enough.
that was her - the girl... we have to go.
I am not going anywhere!
tubbs, these people mean business.
i told you I am not going anywhere! i got my whole life in this place!  I will just destroy the evidence and play dumb.
i can not help you anymore, jimmy. I am sorry.
I am going to need a way to get there.
are you going to be alright?
do not worry about me...  ...and do not forget your helmet. you do not want to get a ticket.
do not you guys ever knock?
where is he?
long gone... marvosa well you will not mind if i do not take your word for it, right?
long gone, huh?
i asked him not to tell me where he was going.  i told him i do not want any part of it.
oh yeah?  you are a smart man?...
yeah, and that is all I am going to say. if you want to arrest me, go ahead...
nahhh...
why did you set me up?
i didn't.  i figured you leave it well enough alone.
well you figured wrong!  and now I am public enemy number one.  you have an answer for that?
i had to get away!  my life was in danger!
look what are you anyway? some kind of spy?
no.  a witness.
what exactly did you see?
six months ago, a police lieutenant named charles fletcher was found dead in a hotel room - he blew his brains out - left no note, you may have heard of it...
no, but I am listening.
i was there, and it was no suicide. he was killed by professionals.  i was in the bathroom when it happened.
did not these - professionals - figure he had a girl in the room?
yeah...they did.  one girl...
and what did you do?
i got out of there.	i just grabbed up my stuff, and then i found it.
found what?
i had it all on tape...
what did you do then?
i did not know what to do - but i knew i had something somebody would want.  that is where i met him - told him what i had.  the fbi set me up with a new place...but the cops found me somehow.  so i ran...and met you.
what happened with the tape?
i took it with me.  it is in a safe place.
so you know about marvosa, and stanton, and all of them.
are you alright?
I will live...
i tell you one thing trudell - you would make a hell of a cop...
it was not in the cards.
there is something I have been meaning to ask you, stephanie.
yeah.
where the hell is my car?
have you ever heard of the live oak river?
no -
neither did i.  I will make it up to you, i promise...
