by gosh, them stiffs are get- tin' heavier and more of 'em every day. they even got the coroner working overtime.
yeah, between the gangsters and the autos, we will not need another war to carry off the population.
you did not even mention the suicides. did you notice the beaut that came in today?
did i?
that is the one that is got the coroner doing nightwork.
what--special autopsy?
dr. meirschultz, please.
he is not here.
what are you going to do?
I am going to call the police.
no, you can not do that--they'll get suspicious--
no-
who are you? what is your name?
i do not know, [i tell you].
what made you steal? are you hungry?
no--i do not want to give any money. everybody wants money--i'm not going to give any money.
who wants your money-- maybe i can help you.
maybe you want my money, too.
no, i do not want money. i only want to find out who you are and where you live. my business is finding peo- ple. not taking their money.
you--a friend to me?
why, yes, to you, mr.--mr. --what?
i do not know--i can not tell--
no, no! i will not sign any pa- pers. you can not make me--
hm--pressure-- to buckley. that is all right. we will talk later.
imagine--she was alive. what a horror. could have been buried alive. she must have run away from the morgue.
never mind your theories. was she ever conscious?
just before she died she came to--
did she talk?
said &quot;doctor&quot;--[something]
[was it] &quot;meirschultz&quot;?
tell me, just what you know of dr. meirschultz.
papers--they all want me to sign papers.
dr. meirschultz, too?
yes--i can not stand it-- everybody wants papers-- oh, oh
take him to the psychopathic hospital.
sure--they're sorta queer, I would say. they's lots of queer goings on up there. they even brought a dog back to life once.
that sounds to me very remarkable.
it may be, but to my notion, those that monkeys with what they got no business to get queer sooner or later.
maybe you are right.
i know i am. why, i even heard a shot up there last night.
why did not you notify the police?
i understand from your neighbors that all [them] cats are making noise at night. dr. meirschultz has put in a complaint.
he is been stealing my cats to experiment on [them]. i know cause I have been [watching] spying on him.
[lot of] how many cats you have--what's the matter-- rats?
yeah--thousands, and right in my back yard.
thousands?
sure, got thousand cats, too. look at 'em-- points to cages of cats.
what' s the idea [of wanting so many] do you sell them [to the doctor]?
oh, no. it is my own idea. I am in the business. in the fur business.
oh, i see. cats' fur.
that is it. you get it quick.
but where do the rats come in?
you are not as quick as i thought. i figgered out that rats breed faster than cats-- cat skins make good fur-- the cats eat rats. rats eat raw meat. that is, they eat the carcasses of the cats. so --the cats eat the rats--the rats eat the cats. and i get the skins--simple am not it?
oh, him. he has a cat of his own. but his assistant--he's the cat-hatenest man i ever saw. goofy, if ya ast me.]
by the way--did you hear a shot last night?
I am detective jones. just dropped in to tell you a bit of news.
you found buckley?
by the way, where is your assistant?
oh, maxwell? he is left.
you can not double-cross me like that.  you were to help me. you were to operate on him. you were going to put him under my power.
not so fast, mrs. buckley. that was your idea!
did you wish to see someone?
i understand my husband is-- your assistant. may i see him please?
you mean he does not work for you?
no, not exactly. why the great anxiety? it must be something important.
it is--you know what a struggle he is had.
indeed, he has often told me.
he is inherited a fortune.
you say a fortune. he never spoke to me of any rich relatives.
he hardly knew of them him- self.  i believe it was his uncle in australia.
i am certainly glad to hear it. i know he will be pleased.
do not tell him. i want to be the first to bring him the news.
that is only natural. maxwell will be here around eight tonight.
okay--i'll be here at eight.
how do you do.
well, news of buckley?
yeah, he was picked up-- also the body from the morgue. say, what did you have to do with stealing that body?
why, buckley stole that body. that is what alarmed mrs. buckley so. i have been try- ing to get her to put buckley in an institution but she wants to keep him.
so--that's it. buckley took the body.
yes indeed. he has been a difficult case. now that you have him in custody--you have him have not you?
oh, yes, he is in good hands now.
fine. mrs. buckley will be all right when she gets used to the idea.
do you have many patients, doctor?
oh no. mostly research in endocrinology.
mind if i look around? seems to me you have car- ried on some interesting experiments. sure of himself but taking no chances. maxwell sure, I will take you thru.
what is down there?
oh, just the basement. some day i intend to build an experimental laboratory down there. it will save me from intrusion.
I would like to have a look.
you are right. but before i can get him back here, you will have to help me.
how? what can i do?
[something very important. i have been threatened;] mrs. maxwell, my assistant's wife, is crazy.  she thinks i mur- dered her husband. [she wants to murder me.] i want you to help me quiet her-- give her a shot from this hypo. [keep it hid till we get her] down in the basement-- there is a secret vault [there]. we will put her there till we get your husband--[then turn her over to the authorities. then we will both be free.]
it sounds all right, except for the fact that she is crazy. it seems to me she has the right idea--.
oh, so you feel that way too . motions to other room. stay in there--i'll call you when needed.
gosh, you had me fooled.
sh--sh--i want to have a few words with you quietly.
so--friendly or otherwise--?
[perfectly friendly, my dear.] at last, i have really a secure living for us. we can travel or anything we choose.
then you knew of the inheritance?
sure--i have one little job to accomplish, then we can leave together. no doubt you are surprised at this disguise.
no, i would not be surprised at anything from you. winningly. maxwell now, honey--you are here in time to help me and you can--
i knew there was a catch in this some place--but spill it. quiet and dramatic. maxwell in the other room, i have a crazy woman that i have been treating.
ha ha, you have been treating.
quiet, will you? this is ser- ious. our lives are in danger.
what do you mean &quot;our&quot;?
that is what i said. now, lis- ten to me. i want you to help me take this woman down stairs. i will give her a shot. you can take care of her till i get help.
how about me getting the help. she is quiet now, is not she?
you here again?
yes. mr. buckley thinks you treated him a little rough. he is in the hospital. how about it?
oh, nothing. he is crazy, that is all. i had a little trouble with him.
what is that?
oh, nothing. a cou- ple of my patients having a little argument.
take me down there.
it will not do any good. they are a pair of would-be mur- deresses fighting it out.
man, you are crazy. what kind of a place is this?
oh, i'm crazy, am i? let me tell you something.  those women have--the gleam--
come on, we are wasting time.
