your kid brother got married last sunday, eh, marty?
that is right, missus fusari. it was a very nice affair.
that is the big tall one, the fellow with the moustache.
no, that is my other brother, freddie. my other brother freddie, he is been married four years already. he lives down on webb avenue. the one who got married sunday, that was my little brother, nickie.
i thought he was a big tall fat fellow. did not i meet him here one time? big tall, fat fellow, he tried to sell me life insurance?
no, that is my sister margaret's husband, frank. my sister margaret, she is married to the insurance salesman, and my sister rose, she married a contractor. they moved to detroit last year. and my other sister frances, she got married about two and a half years ago in saint john's church on kingsbridge avenue. oh, that was a big affair. well, let's see now, that will be about a dollar- seventy-nine. how is that with you?
well...
when you going to get married, marty? you should be ashamed of yourself. all your brothers and sisters, they all younger than you, they married and they got children. i just saw your mother inna fruit shop, and she says to me, "hey, you know a nice girl for my boy marty?" watsa matter with you? that is no way. now you get married.
missus fusari, missus canduso over there, she is inna big hurry, and...
my son frank, he was married when he was nineteen years old. watsa matter with you?
that is swell, missus fusari.
you should be ashamed of yourself.
so these two girls come over to the bar...
hey, ang'...
...and they sit down right next to me...
you want a beer, ang'?
i look over at this one nexta me, not bad, about thirty-five -- hiya, marty...
hiya, ralph...
...i been talking about two nurses leo and me picked up in a bar on seventy-first street.
hey, lou, gimme two bottles-a beer...
so, marty, lemme tell you about these nurses, marty...
waddaya read there, joe?
so, marty, let me tell you about these nurses...
what nurses?
the nurses leo and me picked up last night. we got a date with them tonight.
you still owe me ten bucks from last week, if that is what you are working up to.
so waddaya feel like doing tonight?
i do not know, ang'. wadda you feel like doing?
well, we oughta do something. it is saturday night. i do not wanna go bowling like last saturday. how about calling up that big girl we picked up inna movies about a month ago in the rko chester?
which one was that?
that big girl that was sitting in front of us with the skinny friend.
oh, yeah.
we took them home alla way out in brooklyn. her name was mary feeney. what do you say? you think i oughta give her a ring? I will take the skinny one.
she probably got a date by now, angie.
well, let's call her up. what can we lose?
i did not like her, angie. i do not feel like calling her up.
well, what do you feel like doing tonight?
i do not know. what do you feel like doing?
well, we are back to that, huh? i say to you, "what do you feel like doing tonight?" and you say to me, "i do not know, what do you feel like doing?" and then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching sid caesar on television. well, i tell you what i feel like doing. i feel like calling up this mary feeney. she likes you.
what makes you say that?
i could see she likes you.
yeah, sure.
I will call her up.
you call her up for yourself, angie. i do not feel like calling her up.
boy, you are getting to be a real drag, you know that?
angie, I am thirty-four years old. i been looking for a girl every saturday night of my life. I am tired of looking. everybody's always telling me to get married. get married. get married. do not you think i wanna get married? i wanna get married. they drive me crazy. now, i do not wanna wreck your saturday night for you, angie. you wanna go somewhere, you go ahead. i do not wanna go.
my old lady, every word outta her mouth, when you gonna get married?
my mother, boy, she drives me crazy.
so what do you feel like doing tonight?
i do not know. what do you feel like doing?
marty, your mother wants you onna phone.
come on over about half past seven, we will think of something.  hello, ma, what is the matter?
hello, marty, when you coming home? where you now? because your cousin thomas and his wife virginia, they are here. they had another fight with your aunt catherine... i do not know...
I am coming home right now, ma. I will be home in about two minutes. tell thomas stick around, i wanna see him about something.
he coming home right now.
so what happened, aunt theresa, about the milk bottle was my mother-in- law, she comes inna kitchen, aunt theresa, and she begins poking her head over my shoulder here and poking her head over my shoulder there, so then she begins telling me how i waste money and how i can not cook, and how I am raising my baby all wrong, so she got me so nervous, i spilled some milk i was making for the baby...
she was here, you know, wednesday, and i said, "catherine, my sister..."
so she say, "you're spilling the milk." so she kept talking about these coupla drops of milk i spilled, so she got me so mad, so i said, "mama, you wanna see me really spill some milk?" so i took the bottle, and i threw it against the door. i did not throw it at her. that is just something she made up. she goes around telling everybody i threw the bottla milk at her. i did not throw it anywheres near her. well, i was sorry right away, you know, but she ran outta the house.
well, i do not know what you want me to do, virginia. if you want me, I will go talk to her tonight.
well, I will tell you, aunt theresa...
lemme tell it, tommy.
okay.
we want you to do a very big favor for us, aunt theresa.
sure.
aunt theresa, you got this big house here. i mean, you got this big house just for you and marty. and i thought maybe tommy's mother could come here and live with you and marty.
well...
because i called up tommy's brother joe, and i said, "joe, she is driving me crazy. why do not you take her for a couple of years?" and he said, "oh no!" i know i sound like a terrible woman...
no, virginia, i know how you feel.
i just can not stand it any more! every minute of the day! do this! do that! i do not have ten minutes privacy with my husband! we can not even have a fight! we do not have no privacy! everybody's miserable in our house!
all right, ginnie, do not get so excited.
she is right. she is right. young husband and wife, they should have their own home. and my sister catherine, she is my sister, but i got to admit, she is an old goat. and plenty-a times in my life, i feel like throwing the milk bottle at her myself. and i tell you now, as far as I am concerned, if catherine wantsa come live here with me and marty, it is all right with me.
that is very nice-a you, aunt theresa.
we gotta ask marty, of course.
sure.
you just sit here, i gotta turn the fire on under the cooking.
that is very nice-a you, aunt theresa.
how is marty been lately, aunt theresa?
oh, he will get married, do not worry, aunt theresa.
well, i do not know. he sits arounna house alla time. you know a place he can go where he can find a bride?
well, there is the stardust ballroom. that is a kind of a big dance hall. every saturday night, it is just loaded with girls. it is a nice place to go. you pay seventy-seven cents. it used to be seventy-seven cents. it must be about a buck and half now. and you go in and you ask some girl to dance. that is how i met virginia. nice, respectable place to meet girls. you tell marty, aunt theresa, you tell him, "go to the stardust ballroom. it is loaded with tomatoes."
the stardust ballroom. it is loaded with tomatoes.
right.
hello, ma.
marty, thomas and virginia are here. they had another fight with your aunt catherine. so they ask me, would it be all right if catherine come to live with us. so i said, all right with me, but we have to ask you. marty, she is a lonely old lady. nobody wants her. everybody's throwing her outta their house...
sure, ma, it is okay with me.
you gotta good heart.
he says okay, it is all right catherine comes here.
oh, marty, thanks a lot. that really takes a load offa my mind.
oh, we got plenny-a room here.
sure! sure! it is going to be nice! it is going to be nice! I will come over tonight to your house, and i talk with catherine, and you see, everything is going to work out all right.
i just wanna thank you people again, because the situation was just becoming impossible.
siddown, thomas, siddown.
I am sorry we got to rush like this...
that is all right, that is all right...
on accounta...
I am going to see you tonight...
marty, i do not know how to tell you how much i appreciate what you and your mother are doing, because the kinda thing was happening in our house was virginia was in the kitchen making some milk for the baby. so my mother comes in...
tommy, i promised the babysitter six o'clock.
tommy, before you go, i wonder if you gimme a little advice.
sure, what?
you are the accountant inna family, and i figure you might know about these things. my boss wantsa sell his shop to me. his kids are all married, you know, and he and his wife live alone, and they wanna move out to california where his daughter lives, so he wantsa sell his shop. he wants five thousand dollars down, although i think i can knock him downa four...
tommy!
I will see you at mass tomorrow. we will sit down and we will discuss the whole thing.
all right, I will see you, thomas, because he wants an answer by monday.
sure. thanks a lot about my mother. we will work out some arrangement, because naturally i want to pay...
do not worry about it.
no, listen, that is my mother, I am going to pay for her...
so what are you gonna do tonight, marty?
i do not know, ma. I am all knocked out. i may just hang arounna house.
what?
i say, why do not you go to the stardust ballroom? it is loaded with tomatoes.
it is loaded with what?
tomatoes.
ha! who told you about the stardust ballroom?
thomas. he told me it was a very nice place.
oh, thomas. ma, it is just a big dance hall, and that is all it is. i been there a hundred times. loaded with tomatoes. boy, you are funny, ma.
marty, i do not want you hang arounna house tonight. i want you to go take a shave and go out and dance.
ma, when are you going to give up? you got to bachelor on your hands. i am not never going to get married.
you gonna get married.
sooner or later, there comes a point in a man's life when he got to face some facts, and one fact i got to face is that whatever it is that women like, i am not got it. i chased enough girls in my life. i went to enough dances. i got hurt enough. i do not wanna get hurt no more. i just called a girl just now, and i got a real brush-off, boy. i figured i was past the point of being hurt, but that hurt. some stupid woman who i did not even wanna call up. she gave me the brush. i do not wanna go to the stardust ballroom because all that ever happened to me there was girls made me feel like i was a bug. i got feelings, you know. i had enough pain. no, thank you.
marty...
ma, I am going to stay home and watch jackie gleason.
you gonna die without a son.
so I will die without a son.
put on your blue suit...
blue suit, gray suit, I am still a fat man. a fat ugly man.
you not ugly.
I am ugly... I am ugly! I am ugly!
marty...
ma! leave me alone!
i told you she was not especially attractive, but that she had a good deal of charm, and she is really a real nice girl...
she is all right, andy. it is just that i get one saturday night off every three weeks, and i was expecting something better, that is all.
i told you she was not attractive...
you told me that she was a little tall, but that she was not bad looking at all.
millie's been after me to fix her up with a date, so i...
all right, I am having a fair time. it is just that i get one saturday night off in three weeks, and i wanted to wind up with something tonight.
herbie! wadda you doing here?!
i came up to dance, wadda you think? you here with somebody?
I am just here with another girl.
where you going now?
I am just going to get my cigarettes. i left them in my coat.
I will see you around.
I will see you.
hey, herbie...
what?
you wanna have a drink before we start dancing?
listen. you people go grab a table. I will be back inna minute. I will be right back.
not a bad crowd tonight, you know?
there was one nice-looking one there inna black dress and beads, but she is dancing now.
there is a nice-looking little short one for you right now.
where?
down there. that little one there.
yeah, she looks all right from here.
well, waddaya say, you wanna ask them? I will take the one inna green dress.
i think this number is a little fast. wait a minute.
you say something?
yeah. i was just asking you if you was here stag or with a girl.
I am stag.
well, I will tell you. i got stuck on a blind date with a dog, and i just met an old girl i used to know, and i was wondering how I am going to get rid of the girl I am with. somebody to take her home, you know what i mean? I would be glad to pay you five bucks if you take her home for me.
what?
I will take you over, and I will introduce you as an old army buddy of mine, and then I will cut out. because i got this other girl waiting for me out by the hatcheck, and I will pay you five bucks.
are you kidding?
no, I am not kidding.
you can not just walk off onna girl like that.
we did not tell her anything yet. we thought that we would leave it to you. we thought you would put it like how you were lonely, and why do not she come to live with you. because that way it looks like she is doing you a favor, insteada we are throwing her out, and it will not be so cruel on her. do you want tommy and me to stay here with you?
i think it be a better idea if you and thomas go out, because otherwise she is going to start a fight with you, and everybody's going to be yelling.
hello, aunt theresa.
hello, thomas.
i just this minute got the baby to sleep.
aunt theresa, we figure the best way to ask her is you say that you are very lonely, see? and would not she come and keep you company, because that way, you see...
do not worry. I am going to take care-a the whole thing.
hey! what are you doing here?
i came to see you. how you feel?
i gotta pain in my left side, and my leg throbs like a drum.
i been getting a pain in my shoulder.
i got to pains in my shoulder too. i have a pain in my hip, and my right arm aches so much i can not sleep. it is a curse to be old. how you feel?
i feel fine.
that is nice.
we got to postcard from my son nickie and his bride. they are inna big hotel in florida on their honeymoon. everything is very nice.
that is nice. i got to letter from my husband's cousin in abruzzi. his mother died.
oh.
do you remember emilio digiorgio, owned the tavern in abruzzi?
i do not think i remember him.
well, he died. you know who else died?
who?
you know the old man upstairs in this house. old irishman, always drunk. he got pleurisy. he was inna hospital two weeks. he died yesterday.
well, i always like to visit you, catherine, because you always got such cheerful news.
ma, you want something to eat, some tuna fish?
hey, why do not you go to the movie? your mother and me, we are going to be baby-sitter.
listen, let's go downa kaplans' apartment. they told us to come down.
sure, sure.
i wake up this morning, i hear the baby crying. so i wake up. i come in their room. that girl is shaking her hand atta baby. i said, "you brute! do not you strike that baby! that is my son's baby!"
it is her baby too, you know.
that is my son thomas's baby.
well, it am not your baby.
did i tell you she threw the bottle- a milk at me?
you told me.
she is a witch, that one. i tell you what happen yesterday?
what happen?
she gave me the evil eye.
ufa!
i keep one eye open when i sleep, because she is going to come in, stab me in my bed.
catherine, i want you come live in my house with marty and me.
ah?
you son thomas and virginia, they come to my house this afternoon...
who?
your son thomas and his wife virginia...
when was this?
this afternoon, about four, five o'clock.
what they say?
you know what they say. they say things are no good in this house. catherine, your son is married. leave him in peace. he wantsa be alone with his wife. they do not want no old lady sitting inna balcony. now i tell you what i think. i want you come live with me in my house with marty and me. in my house, you have your own room. you do not have to sleep onna couch inna living room like here. we will cook inna kitchen and talk like when we were girls. you are dear to me, and you are dear to marty. we are pleased for you to come.
my son thomas came to see you this afternoon, and he said to you he wants to cast his mother from his house?
catherine, do not make an opera outta this. the three-a you anna baby live in three skinny rooms. you are an old goat, and she has an italian temper. she is a good girl, but you drive her crazy. catherine, you are no fool. you know this is no good, an old woman living with a husband and wife. two women inna same kitchen, anna house burns down.
so i am an old garbage bag, put inna street.
oh, catherine, please! do not make a tragedy. you come to my house where you know you be happier yourself.
it pains that they should do this.
i know it pains.
catherine, you are very dear to me. we have cried many times together. when my husband died, i would have gone insane if it were not for you. i ask you to come to my house, because i can make you happy. please come to my house.
these are the worst years. i tell you. it is going to happen to you. I am afraida look inna mirror. I am afraid I am going to see an old lady with white hair, like the old ladies inna park, little bundles inna black shawl, waiting for the coffin. I am fifty- six years old. what am i to do with myself? i have strength in my hands. i wanna cook. i wanna clean. i wanna make dinner for my children. am i an old dog to lie in fronta the fire til my eyes close? these are the terrible years, theresa! terrible years!
catherine, my sister...
you come up here often?
i was up here twice before. once with a friend of mine and once i came up alone. the last time... do you see that girl in the gray dress sitting over there?
yeah.
well, the last time i was up here, that is where i sat. i sat there for an hour and a half, without moving a muscle. now and then, some fellow would sort of walk up to me and then change his mind. I will never forget just sitting there for an hour and a half with my hands in my lap. then i began to cry, and i had to get up and go home.
i cry a lot too. I am a big cryer.
this is something recent with me, this bursting into tears at the least thing.
oh, i cry all the time, any little thing. my brothers, my brother-in- laws, they are always telling me what a goodhearted guy i am. well, you do not get goodhearted by accident. you get kicked around long enough, you get to be a real professor of pain. i know exactly how you feel. and i also want you to know I am having a very good time with you now and really enjoying myself. so you see, you are not such a dog as you think you are.
I am having a very good time, too.
so there you are. so i guess I am not such a dog as i think i am.
you are a very nice guy, and i do not know why some girl has not grabbed you off long ago.
i do not know either. i think I am a very nice guy. i also think I am a pretty smart guy in my own way.
I am twenty-nine years old. how old are you?
I am thirty-four.
...you teach chemistry? that is funny. where? what school?
benjamin franklin high school.
benjamin franklin, where is that? brooklyn? i went to theodore roosevelt right up here on fordham road. it is right arounna corner from my house. i have a cousin who is a teacher. he teaches latin. he lives in chicago. he was studying to be a jesuit, but he gave it up after his first vows.
you got to real nice face, you know? it is really a nice face.
thank you.
...when i got outta the army, clara, i was lost. i did not know what i wanted to do. i was twenny-five years old, what was i going to do, go back to my old job, forty cents an hour. i thought maybe i go to college under the g.i. biller rights, you know? but i would not graduate till i was twenny-eight, twenny-nine years old, even if i made it in three years. and my brother freddie wanted to get married, and i had three unmarried sisters -- in an italian home, that is a terrible thing. and my kid brother nickie, he is a one got married last week. so i just went to pieces. i used to walk inna streets till three, four of the clock inna mornings. my mother used to be so worried about me. my uncle mario come over one time. he offered me a job driving his hack onna night shift. he got his own cab, you know. and god forgive me for what I am going to say now, but i used to thinka doing away with myself. i used to stand sometimes in the subway, and god forgive me what I am going to say, i used to feel the tracks sucking me down under the wheels.
yes, i know.
I am a catholic, you know, and even to think about suicide is a terrible sin.
yes, i know.
so then mr. gazzara -- he was a frienda my father -- he offered me this job in his butcher shop, and everybody pleaded with me to take it. so that is what happened. i did not wanna be a butcher.
there is nothing wrong with being a butcher.
well, i would not call it an elegant profession. it is in a lower social scale. people look down on butchers.
i don't.
well, the point is mr. gazzara wantsa sell his shop now, because he and his wife are lonely, and they wanna move out to california in los angeles and live near their married daughter. because she is always writing them to come out there. so it is a nice little shop. i handle his books for him, so i know he has a thirty-five percent markup which is not unreasonable, and he takes home net maybe a hundred, hundred and fifty bucks a week. the point is, of course, you got to worry about the supermarkets. there is two inna neighborhood now, and there is an a&p coming in, at least that is the rumor. of course, mosta his trade is strictly italian, but the younger italian girls, they get married, and they do not stick to the old italian dishes so much. i mean, you got to take that into account too.
it is my feeling that you really want to buy this shop, marty.
that is true. i do. but I am going to have to take outta loan inna bank eight thousand dollars. that is a big note to carry, because i have to give mr. gazzara a mortgage, and what i have to weigh is: will it pay off in the end more than i can make onna salary?
wadda you think?
i think anything you want to do, you will do well.
i only got about three bucks on me now, but i just live about eight blocks from here on the other side of webster avenue. why do not we walk back to my house? I will run in, pick up some dough, and let's step out somewhere.
i really should get home...
it is only a quarter of twelve. the clock's right over there.
i really should get home, i told my father... well, i suppose a little while longer. i wonder if there is any place around here i could put some makeup on...
she was always a bit thin in the hips...
well, at the time she told me this, she already had six. every time i saw the woman, she was either...
and that husband of hers is a skinny bit of a fellow, is not he?
well, i bumped into her on the street, and she was as big as a barrel.
oh, that is nice. so the doctor was wrong, was not he?
oh, no! she died right in the hospital...
oh, that is a sad story. and her husband is that little fellow, works in peter reeves.
that is the one.
oh, that is a sad story.
...it's really a fine opportunity for me. but I am not sure i want to be a department head. it is mostly executive and administrative work. well, anyway, i told you about my father, and he depends on me a great deal, and...
why do not you just move out to portchester?
well, that is what i was saying. my father is getting old. and we are very close. he is a wonderful man, really...
i think you are kidding yourself, clara. i used to think about moving out, you know? and that is what i used to say. "my mother needs me." but when you really get down to it, that am not it at all. actually, you need your father. you know what i mean? you are living at home, and you got your father and mother there, and you can go on like that -- being a little girl all your life.
I am afraid of being lonely.
oh, you will not be so lonely. you will make friends right away.
actually, i do not make friends easily.
what are you talking about? you are a real likeable person. you will make friends out there in portchester one, two, three. you will have people visiting you alla time. I will come visit you. I will borrow my brother freddie's car, or you can call me up when you feel blue, or I will call you up. and it is going to be nice. do not be so afraid.
hello, ralph.
hey, marty, come over here a minute.
waddaya mean, ralph?
hey, louise, i want you to meet marty pilletti. marty, that is louise kelly, inna back seat there.
hiya.
I am with a girl, ralph.
get ridda her. this is money inna bank.
i can not do that, ralph, because somebody already brushed her off once tonight.
this is a good deal here, marty.
this is the kitchen.
yes, i know.
come on inna dining room.
siddown, take off your coat. you want something to eat? we gotta whole half-chicken in the icebox.
no, thank you. i do not think i should stay very long.
sure. just take off your coat a minute.
so i was telling you, my kid brother nickie got married last sunday. that was a very nice affair. and they had this statue of some woman, and they had whiskey spouting outta her mouth. i never saw anything so grand in my life.  and watta meal. I am a butcher, so i know a good hunka steak when i see one. that was choice filet, right off the toppa the chuck. a buck eighty a pound. of course, if you wanna cheaper cut, get rib steak. that got to lotta waste on it, but it comes to about a buck and a quarter a pound, if it is trimmed. listen, clara, make yourself comfortable. you are all tense.
oh, I am fine.
you want me to take you home, I will take you home.
maybe that would be a good idea.
no, marty, please...
i like you. i like you. i been telling you all night, i like you...
marty...
i just wanna kiss, that is all.
no...
please...
no...
please...
marty...
waddaya doing tomorrow night?
nothing.
I will call you up tomorrow morning. maybe, we will go see a movie.
I would like that very much.
the reason i can not be definite about it now is my aunt catherine is probably coming over tomorrow, and i may have to help out.
I will wait for your call.
we better get started to your house, because the buses only run about one an hour now.
all right.
waddaya doing new year's eve?
nothing.
hello, marty, when you come home?
we just got here about fifteen minutes ago. ma, i want you to meet miss clara snyder. she is graduate of new york university. she teaches chemistry in benjamin franklin high school.
siddown, siddown. you want some chicken? we got some chicken in the ice box.
no, mrs. pilletti. we were just going home. thank you very much anyway.
well, siddown a minute. i just come inna house. I will take off my coat. siddown a minute.
how did you come home, ma? thomas give you a ride?
oh, it is a sad business.  my sister, catherine, she do not get along with her daughter-in-law, so she is going to come live with us.
oh, she is coming, eh, ma?
oh, sure.  siddown, siddown. marty, tell her siddown.
might as well siddown a minute, clara.
did you offer the young lady some fruit?
i offered her, ma, she do not want nothing.
no, thank you, really, mrs. pilletti.
it is a very sad business, i tell you. a woman, fifty-six years old, all her life, she had her own home. now she is just an old lady, sleeping on her daughter-in-law's couch. it is a curse to be a mother, i tell you. your children grow up and then what is left for you to do? what is a mother's life but her children? it is a very cruel thing when your son has no place for you in his home.
could not she find some sort of hobby to fill out her time?
hobby! what can she do? she cooks and she cleans. you gotta have a house to clean. you gotta have children to cook for. these are the terrible years for a woman, the terrible years.
you must not feel too harshly against her daughter-in-law. she also wants to have a house to clean and a family to cook for.
you do not think my sister catherine should live in her daughter-in-law's house?
well, i do not know the people, of course, but as a rule, i do not think a mother-in-law should live with a young couple.
where do you think a mother-in-law should go?
i do not think a mother should depend so much upon her children for her rewards in life.
well, maybe that is what they teach you in new york university. in real life, it do not work out that way. you wait till you are a mother.
it is silly of me to argue about it. i do not know the people involved.
ma, I am going to take her home now. it is getting late, and the buses only run about one an hour.
sure.
it was very nice meeting you, mrs. pilletti. i hope I will see you again.
sure.
all right, ma. I will be back in about an hour, an hour anna half.
sure.
goodnight, mrs. pilletti.
goodnight.
where you been, for pete sakes?! i been looking all over for you.
i looked for you, angie, before i cut out, but i could not find you.
i been looking all over for you!
what happened, angie, was that we thought we were just gonna go for a short walk, and then we thought we were gonna come right back, but we got to talking. listen, angie, i want you to meet clara...  clara, this is my best friend, angie. i told you about him.
how do you do?
waddaya gonna do now?
I am going to take clara home. it is close to one.
you want me to ride down with you?
what for?
it is early.
it must be one o'clock.
it is saturday night! there is still plenty-a action around!
angie, by the time i get clara home, it is going to be one, one-thirty. by the time i get home, it is going to be two o'clock. i got to get up for ten of the clock mass tomorrow.
all right, I will see you!
where you going?
you got an elevator in this house?
we just live one flight up.
so I will call you tomorrow.
okay.
okay, so I will see you tomorrow night then.
okay.
do not you think i feel lousy about this too?
all right, ginnie. i do not wanna talk anymore about it.  i do not think i got one hour's sleep the whole night.  last night was the first time in my life i ever heard my mother cry, you know that?
tommy...
i do not wanna talk about it!
i know what you are going to say. a man's got to stop being his mother's baby sooner or later. how many times you going to say it? she is my mother, you know. i oughta have some feelings about her, do not you think?
why do you always put me inna position of being the louse?
virginia, i do not wanna hear no more about it!
tommy...
i do not wanna hear anymore about it, you hear me?
hello, aunt theresa.
hello, thomas, how do you feel?
ah, my mother, she drives me crazy. i hadda beg her to let me drive her over here. the martyr. she always gotta be the big martyr.
boy, beautiful day, hey, thomas?
sure, great if you am not married.
wadda you so sore about?
oh shaddup, will you do me a favor?
what about the time she wanted to make an old-fashioned italian dinner for my brother, but you would not let her!?
waddaya talking about?!!
once a month you could not let her use the kitchen!
i told her she could use the kitchen any time she wanted...
...you hadda be the boss inna kitchen alla time!
she do not wanna use my pots and pans!
tommy, gimme a coupla minutes, because i promised mr. gazzara I would let him know tomorrow. see, what i wanna know, tom, if a buncha individual retail merchants get together, how does it operate? on individual mark- ups? you know what i mean? say I am the butcher and aldo capelli, he is the dairyman and grocer, so suppose i mark up thirty-five percent, but he works on forty, so...
waddaya talking about, do you know what you are talking about?
no, i do not know. that is why I am asking you.
wadda you wanna buy a shop for, will you tell me? you got to good job, you got no wife, you got no responsibilities. boy, i wish i was you, boy. waddaya wanna tie yourself down with a shop? what is he want? five thousand down? you are going to have to carry a mortgage sixty, seventy bucks a month. a mortgage anna note from the bank. for pete's sake, you are a single man with no responsibilities. stay that way, boy. take my advice.
well, you see, thomas i figure the big problem is the supermarkets. but patsy's shop, that is a specialized trade. the supermarkets do not carry italian meat.
who buys italian meat anymore? you think my wife buys italian meat?  she goes to the a&p, picks up some lamb chops wrapped in cellophane, opens up a canna peas, and that is dinner, boy.
well, i understand the problem about the supermarkets, but i was talking to this girl last night, and she made the point that a likeable personality is a valuable business asset.
marty, see that my mother is nice and comfortable, eh?
sure. this girl said...
what girl, what does she know?  why do not you let her hold the baby once in a while?! your mother, boy, she wantsa take the kid for a day, that is fine!
hey, i come home from your house last night, marty was here with a girl.
who?
marty.
your son marty?
well, what marty you think is gonna be here in this house with a girl?
were the lights on?
oh sure.  this girl is a college graduate.
they are the worst. college girls are one step from the streets. they smoke like men inna saloon. my son joseph, his wife, you know, she types onna typewriter. one step from the streets, i tell you. mrs. pilletti ponders this philosophy for a moment.
that is the first time marty ever brought a girl to this house. she seems like a nice girl. i think he has a feeling for this girl. you heard him sing. he been singing like that all morning.
well, that is all. you will see. today, tomorrow, inna week, he is going to say to you, "hey, ma, it is no good being a single man. I am tired-a running around." then he is going to say, "hey, ma, wadda we need this old house? why do not we sell this old house, move into a nicer parta town? a nice little apartment?"
i do not sell this house, i tell you that. this is my husband's house. i had six children in this house.
you will see. a coupla months, you going to be an old lady, sleeping onna couch in her daughter-in-law's house.
catherine, you are a blanket of gloom. wherever you are, the rain follows. someday, you gonna smile, and we gonna declare a holiday.
hello, ma, waddaya say, it is getting a little late.
sure.
that was a nice girl last night, marty.  she was not a very good-looking girl, but she looks like a nice girl.  i said, she was not a very good-looking girl... not very pretty...
i heard you, ma.
she looks a little old for you. about thirty-five, forty years old?
she is twenty-nine, ma.
she is more than twenty-nine years old, marty. that is what she tells you.
what, ma?
she looks thirty-five, forty. she did not look italian to me.
i said, is she italian girl?
i do not know. i do not think so.
what are you talking about? she is a nice girl.
she did not look italian to me.
i do not like her.
you do not like her. you only met her for two minutes.
do not bring her to the house no more.
what did not you like about her?
i do not know! she do not look like italian to me. plenny a nice italian girls around.
well, let's not get inna fight about it, ma.
hello, lou, angie come in yet?
he was here last night till about two o'clock. i hear you really got stuck with a dog last night.
who told you that?
angie. he says she was a real scrawny- looking thing.
she was not so bad.
hello, ralph. how did you make out with those nurses last night, ralph?
oh man, you shoulda come with us last night, marty. that one for you was a real lunatic. how did you make out?
...so the whole book winds up, mike hammer, he is inna room there with this doll. so he says, "you rat, you are the murderer." so she begins to con him, you know? she tells him how she loves him. and then bam! he shoots her in the stomach. so she is laying there, gasping for breath, and she says, "how could you do that?" and he says, "it was easy."
boy, that mickey spillane, boy he can write.
we gotta whole pot inna kitchen. we give you a plate-a your own.
oh, i could not eat nothing. my mother just stuffed me right up to the jaws.
what i like about mickey spillane is he knows how to handle women. in one book, he picks up a tomato who gets hit with a car, and she throws a pass at him. and then he meets two beautiful twins, and they throw passes at him. and then he meets some beautiful society leader, and she throws a pass at him, and...
boy, that mickey spillane, he sure can write.
who you gonna call?
i was gonna call that girl from last night. take her to a movie tonight.
are you kidding?
listen, angie, i wanna tell you, you were very impolite last night. i introduced you to the girl, you just turned and walked off. now, why did you do that?
you got me mad, that is why. hey, joe, show marty that picture.
marty, let's go downna seventy-second street area tonight.
i do not feel like going, angie. i thought I would take this girl to a movie.
boy, you really musta made out good last night.
we just talked.
boy, she musta been some talker. she musta been about fifty years old.
i always figure a guy oughta marry a girl who is twenny years younger than he is so that when he is forty, his wife is a real nice-looking doll.
that means he would have to marry the girl when she was one year old.
i never thoughta that.
i did not think she was so bad-looking.
she musta kept you inna shadows all night.
i told this dog i was gonna call her today about two-thirty.
brush her. listen, you wanna come with me tonight, or you wanna go with this dog?
waddaya getting so sore about?
i looked all over for you last night, you know that?
so what are you gonna do tonight, marty?
i do not know, ma. I am all knocked out. i think I will just hang arounna house and watch...
what time is it?
about eight o'clock.
