daddy!
hi, allison --
have you got a minute?
not much more.  big day in the big city.  what is on your mind?
fireworks.  update -- we are con- structing the number '65' on the barge, archers from the state college at new paltz will shoot flaming arrows at it, when it catches fire it will give us the effect of a viking funeral with none of the morbidity... the hudson river authority says, for you, they will make a special dispensation - of course there'll be an overtime bill for the poughkeepsie fire dept...
allison, i trust you.  this is your thing.
but it is your birthday.
good morning, dad.
hi, honey.
I am allison, you are 'honey'.
drew called from the astar, they are still two minutes away.
drew's aboard?
he wanted to ride back down with you. now sit and relax, get some- thing in that flat tummy of yours --
i hate parties --
calm down, daddy, you will see, you are going to love it.
is not it enough to be on this earth sixty-five years without having to be reminded of it.
no.
will you relax?  i know it is a big deal day --
how did you know?
drew told me.
does drew tell you everything?
i hope so.
you like him, do not you?
yeah.  i guess so.
i do not like to interfere.
...then don't.
...this shit's not bad.
-- the late harvest riesling, mr. quince, a possibility for dessert.
and that?
pinot grigio.  we are considering it for the appetizer.
what do you do that for?
well sir, it is 9:30 in the morning.
9:30's almost 10:30.  where i come from, the sun's over the yardarm, m'boy, and the cocktail lamp is lit.
hello, beautiful.
hi.
good morning, drew.  thanks for coming out.
well, it is a big day.  wanted to line up a few ducks before kickoff. any thoughts?  last minute refine- ments or variations?
'thoughts'?  not a one -- but i did hear a voice last night.
a voice?
in my sleep.
what did it say?
'yes'.
'yes' to the deal?
maybe, who knows?  you know how voices are.  let's go.
hi, bill --
good morning, quince.
how're you doing--?
I am doing great.  you ready?
i am, this is it.  b day.
how is that, quince?
bontecou day.  going to close with big john -- look at you, bill, all cool as a cat and over at bontecou's, I will bet he is shitting in his pants.
honey, please.
okay.  all aboard - new york, new york!
remember everybody, tonight, dinner in the city at daddy's.  you too, drew.  we have still got some loose ends --
not my birthday again?
you are only six-five once.
thank god.  now could we go?  let's get this day started.
i thought you were in a meeting--?
i am.  with you.
...there's a start for a meeting.
i know it is none of my business --
do you love drew?
you mean like you loved mom?
forget about me and mom -- are you going to marry him?
probably.
do not get carried away.
uh oh --
susan, you are a hell of a woman. you have got a great career, you are beautiful --
and I am your daughter and no man will ever be good enough for me.
well, i was not going to say that --
what were you going to say?
listen, I am crazy about the guy -- he is smart, he is aggressive, he could carry parrish communications into the 21st century and me along with it.
so what is wrong with that?
that is for me.  I am talking about you.  it is not so much what you say about drew, it is what you do not say.
you are not listening --
oh yes, i am.  not an ounce of excitement, not a whisper of a thrill, this relationship has all the passion of a pair of titmice.
do not get dirty, dad --
well, it worries me.  i want you to get swept away.  i want you to levitate.  i want you to sing with rapture and dance like a dervish.
that is all?
be deliriously happy.  or at least leave yourself open to be.
'be deliriously happy'.  I am going to do my upmost --
i know it is a cornball thing but love is passion, obsession, someone you can not live without.  if you do not start with that, what are you going to end up with?  i say fall head over heels.  find someone you can love like crazy and who will love you the same way back.  and how do you find him?  forget your head and listen to your heart.  I am not hearing any heart.  run the risk, if you get hurt, you will come back.  because, the truth is there is no sense living your life without this.  to make the journey and not fall deeply in love -- well, you have not lived a life at all. you have to try.  because if you have not tried, you have not lived.
bravo.
aw, you are tough.
I am sorry.  but give it to me again. the short version.
stay open.  who knows?  lightning could strike.
i won't.  and when i tell drew about it, he will not either.
you will not tell him, and even if you did, he would clock it and punch it into his laptop in order to pull out some key phrases when he gives the commencement speech at wharton.
you are terrible.
i know.  but I am the only father you have got.
thank god.
he does not care.  but thanks anyway.
hey, this is it, the hour approach- es, I am getting all excited.  so what do you think, is it --  -- just the 'executive committee' or could you guys use me?
quince, m'man, thanks for the offer, but it is all set for just me and bill. more people might --
i know.  gum up the works.
'...i know, it is none of my business.'
what?
i was saying to quince we will not need --
did you just hear something?
why yes, bill, i was saying to quince --
no no, not you.
daddy, what is the matter?
nothing.  I am sorry.
what is it, daddy --?
nothing.
are you okay?
a-okay.  got my gloves on, my ears pricked.  I am ready for action.
well, go get 'em, pops.
yer damn right.
...tomorrow we sign off -- photo opportunity, you and big john, it will lead network news.  okay so far?
sounds good.
it is going to be great --
do you think i need a haircut?
bill, after this deal, you will be able to afford one.
our first annual report, must be thirty-five years ago now, i owned two stations, i wrote down a state- ment of purpose, that one day you would wake up to a parrish radio station, read a parrish paper at breakfast, catch our news on tele- vision during the day, and go to bed with one of our books or magazines and you would always be told the truth and in the bargain, have a good time.
that is great!  wait 'til i show it to bontecou.
bill, thanks for coming over...  and how're you doing today, drew?  you have got a firecracker here, the kid's really set the table.
good, good.  glad to hear it.
we have met before, y'know, that white house function, the president had you on his right and you know where i was?
I am sorry, i do not recall --
left field somewhere.  well, bill, i want to come in from the outfield, bat cleanup like you have, learn the plush ropes --
i thought you were buying my company.
oh, mr. parrish, i could never buy parrish communications.  i could pay for it, of course, but it would always have your imprint.
good morning, i was talking kind of loud there, sorry.
not at all.  it was fascinating.
oh yeah?  what was 'fascinating' about it?
you and 'honey'?
my kid sister.  she just broke up with her boyfriend and she is thinking about dropping out of law school.
I am sorry --
nothing to be sorry about.  that is the way with men and women, is not it?
what is the way?
nothing lasts.
i agree --
why?
i was just being agreeable, now I have got to explain why?
I am not trying to sharpshoot you, but that 'nothing lasts' stuff, that is what was the trouble with honey's guy.  he was fooling around and honey caught him at it.  one girlfriend was not enough for him.
so you are a one-girl guy?
damn right.  looking for her right now.  who knows?  you might be her.
how did you know?
everybody's a doctor around here. this apartment house is all green pajamas and slippers.  the guy I am waiting for to vacate is a doctor. what kind of doctor?
me?  internal medicine.
so if i needed a doctor, you could be it?
i could be her.
'her'.
yes, i could.  i have an office in the hospital.
-- this is my lucky day.  i arrive in this big bad city and i not only find a doctor, a beautiful woman as well.
not at all.
how 'bout another cup of coffee?
I have got patients coming in --
and i want to get into my apartment and go to work.  please, what do you say, another cup of coffee?
I am all excited --
me, too.
i thought it was great, i thought you and big john would be like a couple of bulls in a china shop --  instead it was --
like a marriage made in heaven?
you have a way with words.
good morning, mr. parrish.
hi, jennifer.
so... board convenes tomorrow, you will recommend, we close and it is a deal, right?
as close as a deal could be.
olympic.
'yes' what?
'yes' is the answer to your question.
i did not ask any question.
i believe you did.
i think you know --
i don't!
try.  because 'if you have not tried, you have not lived'.
what are you talking about?
what you were talking about.
are you giving me orders?
I am sorry, i --
no, you are not.  you are trying to 'handle' the situation but this is the one situation you knew you never could handle.
where are you?  are you there?
it is enough now.
please.  talk to me --
there is going to be plenty of time for that.
what do you mean?!
i think you know --
know what?  know what, goddammit!
I have been buzzing you, mr. parrish. are you all right?
sure.
lunch is 'in' today, have you given it any thought --_
no.  nothing.
nothing?
...it's kind of a pro bono job.
'pro bono'.  that means doing good -- going to be doing good all your life?
i know what you are saying.  does not pay very well.  depends on the woman i marry.  maybe she would like a bigger house, a better car, lotsa kids, college does not come cheap --
you would give up what you want for the woman you marry?
i would.
you will have a hard time finding a woman like that these days --
you never know.  lightning could strike.
I have got to go --
did i say something wrong?
no, it was so right it scares me.
I have been thinking... i do not want you to be my doctor.  because i do not want you to examine me.
why?
because i like you so much.  you have coffee here every morning, do not you?  if i came by, could you give me the name of a doctor?
sure, I will give you the name of a doctor.  ...and i do not want to examine you.
why not?
because i like you so much.  now I have got to go.
what, honey?
i lay awake nights in a cold sweat, i want this party to be like some- thing mom would have made for you, i want it to be perfect --
i know you do, darling.
and you could care less --
oh, you could not be more wrong, sweetheart.  i can' tell you how much i appreciate it and how I am looking forward to it.
good.  songs.  what songs should sidney -- pancho and his six men we can forget about -- what songs do you think he should play?
did you speak to the governor?
he is coming.
his wife?
unfortunately.  i sat between them at the bronx zoo benefit -- it was better than seconal.
what about the mayor?
he said he would be there with bells on.
please do not be negative, drew, we have an acceptance list that would do the white house proud -- the secretary-general of the un, the chairman of the fcc, nine senators, i do not know how many congressmen, and at least twelve of the fortune '500'.
no jocks?  a twenty-game winner or a masters champion?  someone i could talk to.  or would talk to me.
you are overthinking it --
i do not think they are ordinary.  i love keychains.
where are you?
I am here.
what is this, a joke, right?  some kind of elaborate practical joke? at my 40th reunion, we delivered a casket to the class president's hotel room and --
quiet.
the great bill parrish at a loss for words?  the man from whose lips fall 'rapture' and 'passion' and 'obses- sion'...all those admonitions about being 'deliberately happy', what there is no sense 'living your life without...', all the sparks and energy you give off, the rosy advice you dispense in round, pear-shaped tones --
what the hell is this?  who are you?
just think of millenniums multiplied by aeons compounded by infinity, I have been around that long, but it is only recently that your affairs here have piqued my interest.  call it boredom, the natural curiosity of me, the most lasting and significant element in existence has come to see you.
about what?
i want to have a look around before i take you.
'take me'...?  where?
it requires competence, wisdom, experience -- all those things they say about you in testimonials -- and you are the one.
'the one' to do what?
show me around.  be my guide.  and in return, you get...
get what?
time.
what the hell are you talking about?
watch it!
I am sorry --
in return you will receive minuets, days, weeks, I am not going to go into details ... what matters is that i stay interested.
yes what?
'yes' is the answer to your ques- tion.
what question?
bill.  come on.  the question.  the question you have been asking yourself with increased regularity, at odd moments, panting through the extra game of handball, when you ran for the plane in delhi, when you sat up in bed last night and hit the floor in the office this morning.  the question that is in the back of your throat, choking the blood to your brain, ringing in the ears over and over as you put it to yourself --
the 'question' --
yes, bill.  the question.
am i dreaming this?  are you a dream?
i am not a dream.
you are coming to 'take me'.  what is that?  who the hell are you?
you are --?
'...yes --'
yes.
death!
that is me.
you are not death.  you are just a kid in a jacket and a pair of pants.
the jacket and the pair of pants came with the body i took.  let me ask your opinion.  do i blend in?
you want me to be your guide --?
you fill the bill, bill.
i do?  how long will you be staying?
you should hope quite a while.
and then --?
this is crazy -- you are not going to eat dinner with us.
bill, i am eating dinner with you. and your family.  and that is what we are doing.  it is not open for discussion.  nothing is.  do not you understand?
excuse me?  could i say something?
of course.
it just occurred to me --
speak up, please.
when i introduce you, if i say who you are, i do not think anyone will stay for dinner.
then don't.
daddy.  does your friend have a name?
a name?
yeah, something he goes by --
oh, excuse me.  this is -- uh -- this is --
daddy!  come on, a name.
yeah, bill, the suspense is killing me.
sorry...um - you - you know it is gone right out of my head --
what?!
just plain 'joe'?
love that name.
'joe...'
yes.
is there any more to it?
what do you mean?
like 'smith' or 'jones --'
-- black.
whew, at last.  nice to meet you, mr. black.
'joe black'.  won fifteen and lost two for the brooklyn dodgers in 1952.
yes?
you bet.  I am king of my rotisserie league.
are you?
paillarde of veal.
yeah, they hit the calf over the head with a mallet and then luisa hits it again in the kitchen.
honey --!
you know what I am saying, joe?
no --
joe knows what you are saying, just being polite --
have we met?
uh -- he is from out of town --
how long you here, joe?
as long as it takes.
no --
i get the feeling you have done some business before.
we have an arrangement now.
what side of the industry did you say you were on?
i did not say.
joe sounds like a ringer, bill.  i have the feeling you guys got the broad strokes already.  need any help with the details?
hi, everybody.  sorry to be late -- had to have dinner with my depart- ment chief --
you ate?
...i'm here, are not i?  would not miss a loose end meeting.  what is on the table for discussion?  party favors, flowers -- hi dad, hi drew --
you know each other?
we have met.
what?!
-- this morning.  the corinth coffee shop.  he was looking for a doctor.
well, i guess he is found one.
joe, you do get around.
that is your name?
and is not it a lovely one?  so sturdy, so straight --
incidentally, joe, where are you staying?
here...
'here'?
uh - will that hold you, joe?
incidentally, 'joe' what?
black.
hey, this is fun.
now, I am getting interested.  i want to know more ---
we have got some things to discuss.
-- did i hear 'business'?
what 'business'?
do not bother asking, we already tried.
it is so very nice to see you again.
funny, i do not get that feeling. maybe it is because you found out I am bill parrish's daughter.
cut it out, susan.  you and I have got to talk.  big day tomorrow, everybody.  joe, let's go.
joe, that is the kitchen.
thank you.
that was 'joe'.
he is cute.
very.
...i'm sorry, I am a little discon- certed, that stuff between you and susan -- uh -- threw me.
'threw' you?  where?
shook me up.  i mean that you knew her and everything --
i did not know her.  the body i took knew her.  the man she met in the coffee shop this morning.  i - uh - took him.
so there is nothing between you and susan?
no.
i wish you had said something to me about staying here --
it had not occurred to me until then. i was just having such a wonderful time -- besides, is not this what I am here for?
what a good idea.
thank you.  would you like the man's name?
no.
if there is anything else, do not hesitate --
i won't.
how long have i got?
you are putting me on the spot, bill.
when you go, i go.
that is the best i can do.  ...but minute-by-minute, i find myself lingering.
...i just saw my doctor, he told me everything was fine.
your doctor?  did your doctor say anything about a tiny, undetectable hole in your aorta?  did he mention an irreparab- ly weak vein in the further reaches of your famous brain?  were there any prognostications about the possibil- ilites of a fatal collision on a golf cart or suffocating in an avalanche on a ski vacation in gstaad?
no --
i hope you realize, bill...in your office this morning, that was your time.
closer than that.
well, thank you for letting me know.
not at all.
and - uh - i  guess, 'goodnight'.
good night to you, bill.
yes, sir?
hello.  I am joe black.  nice to meet you.
yes sir, mr. black, a pleasure.
what are you eating.
you mean this, sir?
'laura scudder's peanut butter'.  you like it?
i would say, sir, it is right up there with jif and skippy.  but miles ahead of peter pan.  like a taste?
what are you doing here?
I am lost.
-- can not seem to escape you today.
I am sorry.
'big'?
you appear at his side out-of-the- blue, stay at his house, eat dinner with his family, it is practically a first.  you are in the red-hot center of big business and i thought you were a regular joe.
i am joe.
not the one i met this morning, hit- ting on me in as nice a way as I have been hit on in a long time, but the moment you find out I am my dad's daughter, you act like a stranger.
that is not my intention.
what are your intentions?  to make little dreams in coffee shops, turn a woman's head, and i do not mind admitting it was turned, i liked it, but ten hours later i feel like a fool.  i do not get it.  you, my father, here in this house, the cof- fee shop, it is making me upset, and i do not like being upset.  who are you anyway?  and what are you eating?
peanut butter.
you act like you never had peanut butter before --
i haven't.
-- what kind of childhood did you have?
do you love drew?
come again?
when you put your mouth to his, susan, it seems a frequent thing.
drew is none of your damn business. nor is where i put my mouth.
I am sorry.  do you live here?
no, joe, I am swimming here.  then I am going home.
i guess what I am trying to say is -- I would like us to be friends.
I have got plenty of friends.
i do not have any.
i can see why.
yes --?
i have a certain function to per- form, and that seems to take all of my time.  bu sometimes - uh - i speculate - uh - i have not left room for - uh - anything else.
I am sorry to say i know what you are saying.
susan?
yes?
did you know you have a wet spot on your shoulder?
goodnight, joe.
goodnight to you, susan.
yes?
i think you want to go to the west wing.  through there.
good morning.
good morning, bill.
how are you?  how're you feeling?
'feeling'?  i feel fine.  how do you feel?
um -- well, i did not sleep too well. this is crazy.  this is the left- field thing of all time.  what do i do?  what do i tell my family?
oh, i would not tell them anything, bill.  you will ruin the good start we had last night.  i felt as if i were being treated like a person.  'joe' this and 'joe' that - a nice smile - quince passed me the rolls -- no 'rapture' or 'passion' or any of those mighty things you seem so intent on imparting, but i am cer- tain, should you - uh - say - uh - who i am - our adventure would end abruptly.
and what?
and i will not tell anyone who you are.
sounds fair enough.
it is a deal?
a 'deal'?
you give your word, i give mine -- that we will do what we say.  it is a truth exchanged between two people.
bill --
yes?
you have got a deal.
when you were shaving this morning, you were not just shaving, right?
what do you mean?
you were hatching ideas, making plans, arriving at decisions, right?
i guess so.
so you understand the concept then. when you are busy here, your work, what your task is, is being executed elsewhere.
of course.
so you have grasped the idea.  con- gratulations.  now multiply it by infinity and take it to the depth of forever, and you still will have barely a glimpse of what i am talking about.
joe --?
yes, bill.
how about giving a guy a break?
make an exception?
there is one to every rule.
not this.
-- i do not deserve this.  I am still young, this is not my time --
that is what everybody says.
I am not everybody.
that is what everybody says.
i want to live.
i understand.
what is it like?
what do you mean?
what is it like where I am going?
can you keep a secret?
yes.
so can i.
-- and call my family, I would like them to come over for dinner tonight.
did not the family get together last night --?
jennifer.
of course, mr. parrish.  right away.
perhaps you would like to wait in my office --?
no.
what I am trying to say is this is a board meeting and you are not a mem- ber of the board.
I am sure you will see to it that it will not be a problem.
nice to see you.  i did not expect you, but certainly you can not get enough of a good thing.
thank you.
the board of parrish communications - is hereby called to order.  our sole order of business is an acceptance of john bontecou's generous offer and --
do you have any more of these deli- cious cookies?
anything else, mr. black?  how about some water?
why yes, thank you.
hot or cold.
cold.
and a glass.
would you like to sit down, joe?
yes.
...sounds like you are not leaving much room for discussion.
sorry.  i know it looks like I am reversing my field.
that is your privilege, bill.  but given our needs, given the absolute necessity for growth, given the fu- ture, the truth is... joining john bontecou is every bit as certain as - death and taxes.
yes.
"death and taxes"?
yes.
what an odd pairing.
it is just a saying, mr. black,
of whom?
it does not matter.
then why did you bring it up?
you are not familiar with the phrase, "in this world, nothing is certain but death and taxes"?
i am now.
glad i could be of some help.
shall we adjourn?
but the matter's still on the table, bill --
why do not we let it rest for the moment?  give it some air?
well said, eddie.  mr. black, shall we?
-- what is the deal here?  are you going to be breathing down my neck right 'til the very end?
i do not understand.
...i'd like to be alone for a while.
are you sad, bill?
yes, i am.  there is a research lib- rary on the fourth floor.  why do not you go down and read some magazines?
you are not thinking of going some- where, are you, bill?
joe, could i ask you to take a walk? buy a tie or something.  i know I will be seeing you.
of course.
now I would like to be alone.
oh.  okay.
jennifer, give mr. black a map of the city.
no thank you, bill.  i can manage.
joe --
how nice you look.  is that your uniform?
oh goodness, no.
then why are you here, joe?
i came to see you.
i do not have any time to see you now.  I am doing grand rounds and then I am examining back-to-back patients until dinner and then --
very well, I will watch.
watch me do what?
whatever you do.
that is impossible.  I am a doctor, I am --
and I will be a visitor.
patients have visitors, not doctors.
i do not mind --
obeah.
obeah evil.  i not evil.
what you then?
i from dat nex' place.
you wait here'n to take us?  like you bus driver to dere?
no, no.  i on holiday.
some spot you pick.
i nuttin' to do wi' dat.
make it go 'way.
doctor lady make it irey.
not dis pain.  dis pain tru an' tru. make it go 'way.
can't, sistah.
can, mistah.  take me to dat nex' place.
not time yet.
make it time.
she is in a great deal of pain.
yes.
joe, I am with drew.
not now.
i have to go, I am sorry to say --
be sorry for nothing.
are you going to eat your lunch
it is all yours.
excellent.  what is it?
cold lamb sandwich with cilantro.  a little coleman's mustard.
truly - uh - splendid.
glad you like it.  my wife turned me onto cold lamb sandwiches.  joan -- that was my wife --
uh-huh.
cold lamb sandwiches -- not as chewy as roast beef, not as boring as chicken.  she knew stuff like that.
and more.
why did not you stop me?
well...i do not know.
i thought you would heard a trillion times --
this part I am interested in.
may i interrupting?
yes.
no.
'just kidding'?
sit down, drew.
before i do --  i was hoping we might be alone, bill.
joe and i have no secrets from each other.
how nice for you both.
why?
i was hired, you told me, to help bring parrish communications into the 21st century.  this merger is the vehicle --
joe, cut it out.  and you too, drew.
i thought this was practically a done deal --
well now it is undone, okay?  forget bontecou!  scrub him!  I am tired of his fancy name and his fancy offer. I am not going for it.
dinner?  absolutely.
absolutely.
why, at this juncture, are you letting yourself be so concerned by business matters?
i do not want anybody buying up my life's work and turning it into something it was not meant to be.  a man wants to leave something behind. and he wants it left behind the way he made it.  and he wants it to be run the way he run it -- with a sense of honor, of dedication, of truth. okay?
okay.
and i do not need your goddamn permis- sion either!  you!  drew!  i do not need anyone to tell me how to run my life.
easy, bill.  you will give yourself a heart attack and ruin my vacation.
...we're never all together two nights in a row.  maybe christmas, thanksgiving, that is it.  what is going on?
nothing's going on.  maybe he does not want to be alone.  he is go- ing to be sixty-five in a minute --
...i do not know, daddy seems funny to me.  ever since joe showed.  it is like he dropped from the clouds...
-- but he does seem very nice.
you think so?
...i read you all the way on the bontecou thing, and i know where you are coming from.  and I am with you a hundred and one percent.
thank you, quince.
but I have got to tell you, if mergers are in the wild, I have got some great prospects I have developed.  i want to talk to you about them next week.
next week?
yeah.  or the week after.
no, anything is possible.  it is up to joe.
joe, you do not know how glad i am you are aboard.  anybody who can take some of the weight off the old man, I am in his corner.
that is very gracious of you, quince.
no problem.  I will leave you two alone.  i can tell you guys have something on the fire --
did you know twenty-six members of your rifle company are coming?
who?
from the korean war.
conflict, honey.  korean conflict.
whatever it was, they will be here. we sent out invitations to everyone, plane tickets included -- the rsvp's are amazing.  a few of them we did not hear from, and some of them are dead, of course --
of course.
you know, we are going to give this party for you whether you like it or not.
i like it.  i like it.  I am sorry i do not seem more appreciative.
that is okay, daddy.
...i know you are down, but you know when you are down, drew, there is no place to go but up.
thanks, quince.
never mind bontecou.  I have got some other merger possibilities up my sleeve, and I am putting them to see old man.
are you?
we will do it together.  I will clue you in.  timing's got to be right.  the old man says it is up to joe.
'it's up to joe'?  those were his words?
yeah.
'it's up to joe', huh?
yeah, that is what he said.
well, that is very interesting.
i thought so, too.  joe's a neat guy.
yeah.  neat.
i wanted to apologize, susan --
i thought you said 'be sorry for nothing'.
well, now i am sorry.  for intruding on you this afternoon.
it was not an intrusion.  and if it was, it turned out to be welcome.
i appreciate you --
excuse me?
i mean i appreciate that.
and i appreciate you, too.
i was a little abrupt with you this afternoon, drew.  forgive me.  i want you to know i value your advice.
as much as joe's?
you are competitive soul, drew. that is what makes you a great addi- tion to the money.  joe is just... around.
for how long?  and why?
please.  do not worry about him.  and above all, do not antagonize him.
no.
well, I am going to tell you anyway. i did cheat on that exam at groton. but so did twenty-six other guys, and nobody ever mentioned it until today.  and I am expecting you will not mention it again.  i do not know who you are and where you are getting your information, but I am willing to pretend i did not hear it, and let bygones be bygones.  but can i tell you something else, it would be nice to see the big guy without you next to him.  what are you, his shadow?  do you hold his dick for him when he goes to take a leak?  you know some- times somebody would like a few min- utes alone with w.p.  that means without you.  okay, pal?  let's eat.
look who is talking.
yeah, speak for yourself.
it will come back, daddy.
will it?...
dinner?  again?
have not you had enough of us, dad?
i would prefer some peanut butter.
how would you like that, sir?  on some kind of toast?
toast?  no...just the butter.
right away.
why do you love peanut butter so much?
i do not know.
i adore things like that....food i can not do without.  do not you?
yes...
it comforts you, does not it?
yes...i've found that it does.
mind if i throw up?
please, drew.
I am very concerned about the woman you attended to today.
i am, too.
has her pain abated?
we are doing what we can for her. but it does not look good.
I am sorry to hear that.
who are we talking about?
but i know she is grateful for the care you are giving her.
is this a state secret or are we being excluded just for the fun of it?
susan's patient is whom we are talking about.
did he?  that is more than we get to do.
well, maybe next time joe goes, he will take us along.
perhaps you could remind me.
I will make a note of it.  anything else?
I would like to come, too.  see susan strut her stuff.
you are on, quin-cee.  destination hospital.  joe, you will be the tour guide.  okay?  how is that sound to you?
i have to go, bill -- it is been a helluva day.  need a few minutes to sort everything out.
okay, we will see you tomorrow.
sure.
why did you go to the hospital?
i do not know.
you were just curious?
i guess...
about susan?
i would not put it that way.
what way would you put it?
you tell me, bill.
how about you telling me?  when i ask a simple question, i expect a straight answer.  that is what I am used to.  anybody who does not give it to me, i fire.
are you going to fire me, bill?
...see you tomorrow night.
include me out.  I have had enough of the conversations.
you do not mean that.  you would not disappoint daddy --
daddy'll do fine.  besides, he is got joe.  and so do you.
drew, you are out of line.
that may be.  but i do not like the fucker.  i do not like the way he looks at you and talks to you.  and vice versa.
sorry, but i like the way he looks and talks to me.  and vice versa. okay?
no, not okay.  i thought we had a good thing going here.  it shows you never know.
well... goodnight.
yeah.  goodnight.
how long have you been standing there?
i do not like the way drew spoken to you.  but i feel better about it now because of the way you spoke back.
why?
because guys who never say anything about themselves are always married.
no, I am not.
girlfriend?
no.
gay?
no.
where are you going?
to bed.
'to bed'?
yes.  I am tired.
that was wonderful.
yeah, it is good to get together.
do you mind if i raise a little caution flag?
raise away.
what is the nature of your interest in joe?
well, remember how you told me about "lightning striking"?  the nature of it is in there somewhere.
i will not say you may be getting onto shaken ground --
then what will you say?
i do not think this is the lightning you are looking for.  drew's a good man.  i know i did not seem to be completely in his corner before, but I have come to appreciate --
now we love drew and joe in verbo- ten?  what is going on?
nothing.
when you say 'nothing' that way, it is not nothing.
then what is it?
it is something.
and what would that be?
bill's birthday is the day after tomorrow.  there is a provisory by- law in our charter.  per the discre- tion of the board, corporate off- icers can be retired at age sixty- five.
you are taking this too far, drew.
am i not obligated to?
thank you for coming.
hello, quince.
well, I am happy to tell you I have got good news.  as i was telling drew, I have been making a little hay while the bontecou sun was shining -- two, possibly three new and boiling hot prospects for merger.
how did bill react to the leads you have developed?
he was interested.
-- but he was concerned about the timing?
the timing -- yes.  he says it is up to joe.
'it's up to joe'?
that is what he said.
what is this?
annie made them.
who is annie?
from la rosette, only the greatest pastry chef in america.  this is orange, from real seville oranges.  lemon, on a mille-feuille crust, a little on the fanciful. and a while, nothing like a good old white cake, vanilla, with angel food but some maroons shavings thrown in.
i do not like cake.
it is for the party, dad --
oh, the goddam party --
'goddam party'!
this is great, honey.  the orange. has it got a little vodka in it? like that finnish stuff, orange vodka --  put your lips around this one, bill. it is out of this world.
no thank you, quince.  I am sorry, honey.  I am no good at this.  why do not you choose whatever cake you like?
but he does give a shit.  do not you, bill?
yeah, i give a shit.
see.  there.  what did i tell you?
yeah, but --
but what?
what will i tell annie?
this one.
the vodka.  what did i tell you?
cirrhosis of the liver is the fifth leading killer of adult western males.
i did not know that.
on the other hand, winston churchill drank a bottle of cognac a day and lived until he was ninety-one.
you are an original, joe.  a little hard to figure, maybe...
and you are a nice man, quince.
thanks.
you are welcome.
what is there to say?  they know what john bontecou is -- and if they didn't, they know now.
yes, you made your feeling abun- dantly clear.  now they want to do the same with theirs.
what are their feelings?
if i read this board right now, they want you to accept bontecou's offer.
over my dead body.
what do you think the board is going to say when i tell them that?
i do not care.
with all due respect, you damn well better care because if you try to stonewall them again, there'll be blood on the floor.
whose?
yours.
I am feeling real uncomfortable right now because the guy who reports to me is threatening me.
I am just giving you the truth.  there was a time when william parrish liked the truth.
i think it is time you went home, drew.
certainly.  goodnight.
no, i do not --
not good, not bad, you know what we got?  nothing.  no credit, no cars, no mortgages -- no wives.  nothing.
you first.
why do not you get off his case?
oh, you are the great joe's attorney now?  are we going to go to court? or are we going to go to bed?  and i do not mean you and me.  i mean you and him.
that is it.  it is over.  get out.
so i guess a blowjob's out of the question?
almost.
i said get out.
I am sorry about --
please.  we do not need to talk about drew.
i love your smell.
-- i guess you haven't.
thank you.
it was everything.
-- could you?
never tried, 'til now.  joe, may i kiss you?
why, yes.  thank you.
yes?
i do not know who you are.
well...i'm -- uh, joe.  and you are susan.  and i - uh - have this weak feeling in my knees --
and is your heart beating strangely?
faster.  and i want the scent from underneath your ears and the taste of your lips and the touch of your tongue to stay with me -- forever.
hello, bill.
hello.  would you like to join me, quince and allison for a nightcap?
um -- not right now.
okay.  goodnight.
goodnight.
good morning, mr. parrish.
good morning, jennifer.
the board is waiting.
what?
did not you call a board meeting?
did you want to have a cup of coffee or something, bill?
i do not think so.  do you?
that is it?
bontecou wants a quick response and --
the answer is no, quick enough for you?
do not you want to hear the details?
I am not interested in the details. and I am not interested in the big picture either.  what i am inter- ersted in is how my board got conven- ed behind my back, is entertaining a further proposal from a man whom it offends me to do business with, moreover has the audacity to present this to me like a prize fish, and i am expected to clap for it like a performing seal.  no, thank you.
so i am to understand from your re- sponse that you do not want to hear the details of bontecou's offer?
yes, you are to understand that, and now may i ask you a question?
certainly, bill.
are you running this board or am i?
we are not getting anywhere here. why do not we take some of the best out of this thing, let's consider it coolly, let's take a week --
bontecou wants a speedier response than that.
he will wait --
I have already introduced mr. black to you all.
but who is he?  what are his creden- tials?  what is his relationship to you?
in english, please.
mandatory retirement upon our chairman's sixty-fifth birthday.
...it's not over, 'til it is over.
please, eddie, no 'fat lady sings" shit.
i still sense some doubt in this group, we could turn it around. you will be up in the country?
yes, the big 'celebration' of my mandatory retirement birthday. you are an honored guest, eddie.
I am going to stick it out here.  we still have a shot.
what have you done?  you have gotten the old man fired!
that we did.  thanks to you.  he was wobbling, mind you, but you spplied the coup de grace.
I am going to put a stop to this!
quince, you can not unscramble scrambled eggs.
but i did not mean to do it!
the train's left the station, pal, and you are aboard.  would you like to hear the silver lining?  check that, gold.  I have been working with john bontecou all along.  we had a game plan -- acquire parrish communications then break it apart and peddle it piece-by-piece to the highest bidder.  i set it up for him, he smacks it out of the park.
i do not want to get rich this way -- I am going to expose you.
go right ahead.  tell william parrish how you betrayed him at a secret board meeting.  and tell allison how you got her father fired -- and he lost his company.
I am sorry, bill --
that is okay.
what is okay?
just a manner of speaking.
what 'okay' is, it is 'okay' it is over.  we have got bigger fish to fry, do not we, joe?
'fish'?
never mind.  I am tired.  I am going to take a nap.
I am not hungry.
then i can not help you.
you are here?
i am.
i just thought I would drop by, scrounge a little lunch, i was in the neigh- borhood --
how beautiful.
he is taking a nap.
he must be tired -- this bontecou thing --
yes, he is tired.  i believe so.
...no.
maybe it is the draft through the door.
did you like making love to me?
i loved it.
more than you love peanut butter?
yes!
where are you going?
nowhere?  i'm...here.
for how long?
oh, i hope a long, long time.
i could not sleep.
I am sorry to hear that.
yes, i saw you see me.
well, you are at the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong woman.
I will be the judge of that.
I am her father!
with all due respect, bill, I am not asking your permission.
well, you goddam well should.  you walk into my life, give me the worst news a guy can get, have me dancing on the heads of pins with my busi- ness and with my family, and now you are spooning with my daughter.
'spooning'?
yes, and stop repeating everything i say, and turning it into a question. spooning, fooling around, god knows what.  you arrive on the scene -- why you picked me, i still do not under- stand --
i picked you for your verve, your excellence, and for your ability to - how shall i say - instruct.  you have lived a first-rate life.  and i find it eminently usable.
you are violating the laws of the universe.
this universe?
any universe that exists or ever existed.  you may be the pro, joe. but i know who you are.  and you are all fucked up.
i do not like your tone, and i do not like your references.
and i do not give a shit.
may i remind you this is not just a dispute with a putative suitor, this is me.  so watch it...bill.
cut the 'bill' crap out -- you sonofabitch.
i told you, 'watch it'.
don' be facety, woman.
none facety, mistah.  you come for me?  dat's good news.
no, i come to see doctor.
doctor?  what could be wrong wit' you?
nuthin'.
oh, you come to see doctor lady?
yes.
my doctor lady?
mine, too.
yah.
you loved back?
i am.
she knows you real self?
she knows how she feel.
rass!
don' need you okayin'.
schoolboy tings is you head. badness for you, badness for her, badness for me, lyin' here tumor, big as breadfruit, poison my inners an' waiting.
brung you flowers and all i gettin's facety back.
only flowers i wan' see's one's over my peaceful self restin' in the dutty.
can do no right by people.  come to take, you wan' to stay, leave you stay, you wan' to go.  rahtid!
where is joe?
joe?
where is he?
i do not know.
because i was sitting in a staff meeting, incredibly bored, my mind kept wandering and the only place it landed was -- joe.
i do not understand.
love.  passion.  obsession, all those things you told me to wait for.  well, they have arrived.
this is crazy --
why?  a man appears at your side, almost never leaves it, you clearly trust him, depend on him, i sense you value him deeply, why are not those things good enough for me?
you do not know anything about joe --
what are you afraid of, dad?  that I will fall head over heels for joe -- well, i have -- as you did with mom.  that is always been standard, whether you like or not.
susan, i do not think joe is going to be with us long.
where is he going?
i do not know, i can not say --
c'mon!  the guy's working with you. you always know chapter and verse about everyone who works --
in this case, i can't.  i - uh -- i just can not help you.  i only would tell you -- that with joe, you are on very, very dangerous ground.
i love him.
i do not care if you love him!  I am telling you he is no good for you!
uh --
yes?
-- i have the feeling that, all in all, what i made this voyage for -- has served its purpose.
what are you saying, that it is time to go?
you are?
yeah.
good.  tomorrow, after the party.
eddie?
yeah - bill - how are you?  you okay?
fine, fine.  big doing up here.  why are you still down here?
the board's working through the weekend, tying up the loose ends on this damn thing.  but i want to give it one more try, I am still holding out some hope.
eddie, hold out all the hope you want but, i promise you, it is hope- less, it is over.  come on up, let's get drunk, if i had your shoulder to lean on i might actually enjoy this --
no, I am going to stay down here, keep my finger in the dike and maybe by monday, the waters could recede.
if you are trying to show me lay- down-in-front-of-the-bus loyalty, forget it.
sorry, bill, have a drink, eat your cake, blow out the candles and make a wish.  talk to you monday.  okay?
okay, eddie -- anyway, thanks for the memory.
hi, daddy, what do you think?
it is starting to grow on me.  but what do the 'b' and 'p' mean?
the fountain is the caspian sea and the sea is serving up caviar.  the 'b's for beluga, the 'p' for petrossian.  of course, they also stand for 'bill' and for 'parrish'.
do they, m'dear?
-- plus we have got a baritone with a balalaika coming from the russian tea room.  I have dressed him in a cossack shirt and he will sing nelson eddy songs.
i do it because i love you.  because everybody i loved you.  mommy -- wher- ever she is -- susan, quince, the people who work for you, everybody who is ever known you.
yeah?  and what about my enemies?
they respect you.  is not that a kind of love?
i have not been the father to you that --
that you have been to susan?
i was not going to say --
but that is what you were thinking. and that is okay.  because i know you love me.  not like it is with susan, the way your eyes light up when she comes in the room and the way she always gets a laugh out of you, as opposed to me when i walk in a room and that look comes over your face, "what does she want now?"
you know, darling, this is going to be a wonderful party.
yes, it is.
I am afraid this is a wine bar, mr. quince.
okay, give me a bottle of wine.
red or white?
both.
c'mon, have a drink.  you look like you need one bad as me.
do i?  I am a little confused.
confused, huh?  about what?
love.
'love'?  oh, man, I have got troubles of my own.
you love allison, do not you?
oh yes, i do.
how did you meet?
i was a world-class loser and she was a happy, little rich girl -- and for some reason she took me in.
but she loves you?
because there is nothing we do not know about each other and it is okay. i mean the deeper, darkest secrets -- they do not matter.
'the deepest, darkest secrets --'?
yeah, it is like you know every inch of each other's souls -- and then you are free.
what do you mean 'free'?
free to love each other.  com- pletely.  totally.  no fear.
oh yes, you are one of my favorites.
what would you say if you knew it was me who brought down bill parrish?  i told drew and the board that bill depended on you.  drew led me on, but i had no business telling him in the first place.  he was setting up bill from day one.  drew and bontecou are going to chop up the company and sell it off for parts. bontecou was outside, drew was mr. inside.  and i was the fool who made it all happen.  oh god, what do i do?
you think so?  how do you know?
because that is the kind of man bill parrish is.
do you think i should wait to tell him 'till after the party?
no.
i like you in a black tie.
i love you in an evening gown.
it beats a surgical, does not it?
yes.  your father and i, our time together has come to an end.
where are you going?
well -- i --
and you can not tell me who you are.
i can tell you the when part.  tonight.
it gets worse.
no worse than it gets for me.  I am in love with a woman whom i do not want to leave.
then don't.
we know so little about each other --
we know all that we need to know --
but there is so much to tell you --
don't.  that will come later.
will it?
lightning struck.  we caught it in a bottle.  do not let it out.  i want to be with you, joe --
what will we do?
'love will find out the way'.
'love will find out the way'?
it is a saying.
i believe that, do not you?
yes, that is why i said it.
...what can i say after i say that I am sorry?  i zipped when i should have zagged, i opened my big mouth one too many times, everything got all twisted --
it is okay, quince.  i understand. you have always meant well and i appreciate that.  sometimes things just turn out -- wrong.
come in, joe -- i want to thank you -- okay, bill?
sure.
joe knew the whole story.  i told him.  it was his idea that i come clean.  i mean i wanted to come clean but he gave me a pair of balls, you know what i mean?
yes, i believe i do.
all in all, what bill wants to do is build the golden bridge to drew with no hard feelings.
you think drew will go for it?
quince, I have got confidence in you.
sir, I will deliver the package.
thanks.
not at all.
what the hell do you care?
i was just asking, bill.
you 'want to know', I will tell you. you are looking at a man who tonight is not about to walk through the valley of the shadow of death, he is galloping into it.  and the same time, the business he built with his own hands and his own head is being commandeered by a couple of cheap pirates.  and, oh yes, i almost forgot, my daughter's fallen in love with death.
-- and I am in love with your daughter.
say again?
I am in love with your daughter, and I am taking her with me tonight.
you are what?
i think you heard me, bill.
you are not taking susan anywhere. and what the hell does that mean anyway?
I am sorry, bill --
susan is my daughter, she has a wonderful life ahead of her and you are going to deprive her of it and you are telling me you are sorry?  well, I am sorry, apology not accepted.
i love her, bill.  she is all that i ever wanted, and I have never wanted for anything because I have never wanted anything before, if you can understand.
how perfect for you -- to take whatever you want because it pleases you.  it is not love --
then what is it?
some aimless infatuation in which, for the moment, you feel like in- dulging.  it is missing everything that matters.
which is what?
trust, responsibility, taking the weight, for your choices and feel- ings and spending the rest of your life living up to them.  and above all, not hurting the object of your love.
so that is what love is?
multiply it by infinity and take it to the death of forever and you will still have barely a glimpse of what i am talking about.
those were my words, bill.
well, they are mine now.
susan wants to come.  she says she is in love with me.
with you?!  who is 'you'?  did you tell her who you are?
no.
does she know where she is going?
i do not like what you are saying.
i do not expect you to.
are you threatening me?
i certainly hope so -- i loved susan from the moment she was born, and i love her now, and every minute in between, and what i dream of is a man who will discover her and she will discover a man who will love her, who is worthy of her, who is of this world, of this time and has the grace and compassion and fortitude to walk beside her as she makes her way through this beautiful thing called life.
did i say that?
and i said you would have a hard time finding a woman like that.
the 'coffee shop' --
-- that was the place... and you were the guy.
i - uh --
you want me to wait for you, you will be back --
I am still here.
but you are not.  you are somewhere else.  you are someone else --
tell me you love me -- tell me you love me now --
i love you now, I will love you always --
hold me --
susan --
-- yes?
thank you for loving me.
okay.
get him in here.
this is damn big of bill, i also think it is smart.
he had no choice.  you are a formidable adversary.
he said that?
well, you have got him by the short- hairs.
yeah, the short, gray hairs.
we are all here, bill --
i appreciate this, eddie, members of the board, this will just take a minute of your time.  as the custo- dians of the company, you may re- ceive information from what follows that is valuable to you --  -- or not.  either way, thanks.
we are all ears.
i do not know where you get that idea -- the board agreed --
the board did not know you are a mole who burrowed inside so you could bury us all.
is this mr. black's fantasy?  another one of his whoppers?  are not you sick of this asshole lurking around? no one knows who he is, but one thing everyone does know, he somehow got your ear and has been pouring poison into it ever since.
so tell me, tell me, I am peeing in my pants.
-- and now you are going to pee some more.
joe, do not do this --
it is time to put this person where he belongs.
it is not necessary, joe.  drew's going to step aside --
I am not stepping anywhere --
i appreciate your gentlemanliness, bill, but what we need to do here is drive the dagger home --
the dagger --?
i told you to shut up.
prepare yourself, drew - i am --
he is --
I will take it from here --  i am --
-- an irs man.
the treasury department asked my cooperation in his undercover investigation of john bontecou. they were convinced that bontecou, on past deals, had structured his mergers and acquisitions in sus- picious and complicated ways so as to evade paying the taxes he is liable for.  the irs wanted to go after him, and this deal offered them the opportunity.  i agreed to cooperate.
and we are very grateful.
moreover, agent joe black here -- of course that is not his real name -- smelled out your involvement, drew.  he developed evidence you were working both sides of the fence.  unfortunately, that is known as a conflict of interest --
undisclosed conflict of interest --
an offense --
an indictable offense.
i think I would like to talk to my lawyer --
no lawyers, drew.  we are going to offer you a deal.
and what do i get?
you get not to go to jail.
you are talking through your hat. you are offering a deal because you have got no proof.
proof?  we have got plenty of proof.
well, thank you, that is great, but it is more than i bargained for.  i just wanted to set the record straight.
but we want you back, bill.  mean- while, enjoy your party, celebrate, we will attend to the nasty details. and mr. black, may we say thank you.
what a night.
I am having a helluva time.
you were right about joe, he is going somewhere --
I am sorry.
are you relieved?
yes, but --
but what?
i want you to know how much i love you.  that you have given a meaning to my life that i had no right to expect, and that no one can ever take from me.
daddy --
no -- i love you so much and i want you to promise me something.  i do not want you to ever worry about me.  if anything should happen, I am going to be fine and everything's going to be all right.  -- and i have no regrets.
i love you, daddy --
that is why it is okay.
I am still here.  would you like to dance with me, susan?
oh, yes --
if you do not mind dancing with an old fogey like me.
oh, dad, you are not old.  you will never be old.
what was that?
the fireworks are about to start.
happy birthday, bill.
thank you.
not exactly.
i guess you have your reasons.
yes.
yes.
that is life.  what can i tell you?
that is it?
well, i do not know what else to say. it is a helluva party --
you think so?
yeah...and you are the prettier thing here.
you said you liked me.
no --
y'didn't?
...we know so little about each other.
but we have got time.
