you am not coming to work?
do not guess. just come for my day's pay owing and to tell you I am heading east.
what you gonna do back there, east?
lotta rich women back there...
yeah?
men, they mostly faggots.
must be some mess back there.
well, am not no use hanging around here.
am not going to collect your pay?
i got me two hundred twenty-four bucks of flat folding money...  he know what he can do with that chicken-shit day's pay. and if he am not man enough to do it for himself, i be happy to oblige!
ever stationed at kennedy? those florida chicks...
instant v-goddam-d.
this pensacola teeny-bopper -- jail bait -- but built? ten bucks she wanted. three of us made a deal for, twenty-five, see, big goddam bargain?
big peni-goddam-cillin bargain, right?
you got it.
no. you got it.
were you looking? about the statue of liberty?
joking? no, ma'am. oh no! i mean business!
I am sorry. i thought you were -- never mind -- I have never actually been there, but let me see, you take the seventh avenue subway, i think, to the end of the line...
you sure are a pretty lady.
you are not looking for the statue of liberty at all.
no, ma'am, I am not.
why, that is perfectly dreadful. are not you ashamed of yourself?
beg pardon, ma'am. I am brand spanking new to this town, come from houston, texas, and hoping to get a look at the statue of liberty...
you are hoping to get a look at what?
the statue of liberty.
it is up in central park, taking a leak. if you hurry, you will make the supper show. now get lost.
do not know what line morey's in, but myself now, fact is -- I am a hustler.
hers'n zodda meg a livig.
beg pardon, ma'am?
said, a person's got to make a living.
you sure you heard what i said?
scuse me, hon, fraid I am only half here. maybe you oughta run on along. but why do not you take this phone number?
you are such a doll. i hate money, do not you? god, it is been fun.
funny thing, you mentioning money. i was just about to ask your for some...
that is one hell of a shirt. i bet you paid a pretty price for it, am i right?
oh, it am not cheap. i mean, yeah, I would say this was an all right shirt. do not like to, uh, you know, have a lot of cheap stuff on my back.
shee-it...  kee-rist, you really know the ropes. wish to hell i bumped into you before. I am joe buck from texas and I am going to buy you a drink, what do you say to that?
enrico rizzo from the bronx. do not mind if i do.
same all around! for my friend, too!
... you see what I am getting at here? she got a penthouse up there with color tv and more goddam diamonds than an archbishop and she busts out bawling when i ask for money!
for what?
for money.
for money for what?
I am a hustler, hell, did not you know that?
how would i know? you gotta tell a person these things  a hustler? picking up trade on the street like that -- baby, believe me -- you need management.
i think you just put your finger on it, i do.
my friend o'daniel. that is who you need. operates the biggest stable in town. in the whole goddam metropolitan area. a stud like you - paying! -- not that i blame you -- a dame starts crying, i cut my heart for her...
hey, listen, how about you take me to mee this mister o'diddle bird right now?
well, joe, you are a nice guy, and I would be doing you both a favor, but why? what'm i dragging my bum leg all over town for? it is no picnic and what for, for me myself, what?
tomorrow when some piece like that is scratching your back in a fifth avenue townhouse, where'll your pal rizzo be? nedicks.
hold it, just hold it. you think I am that kinda sombitch? just name your cut, whatever you want, you got it right now. five? ten, how is that?
let's see how you look. fine. you look fine. now I am going to have to have that other ten...
ten, ten -- i got a twenty -- take that...
oh hell, forget it.
now take it. go on.  listen, where can i reach you? cause I am going to make this right with you soon's i get me set up...
forget it.
i mean, dammit, where you live?
am i tickled to find you, boy! come on in and let's get a look at you. turn around. good strong back. you will need it. so you want help -- take a seat, relax, tell me about yourself. cowboy, huh?
no sir, I am no cowboy really, but I am a first class stud.
take it,easy, boy...  seems to me you are different than a lotta boys that come to me. most of 'em seem troubled, confused, but I would say you knew exactly what you want.
you bet i do, sir.
but I will bet you got one thing in common with them other boys. I will bet you are lonesome.
well, not too, i mean, a little.
I am lonesome. I am lonesome so I am a drunk. I am lonesome so I am a dope fiend. I am lonesome so I am a thief, a fornicator, a whore-monger. poop, i say, poop! I have heard it all and I am sick of it, sick to death.
yessir, i can see that.
lonesomeness is something you take. you bear? dammit, you take it and go about your business, that is all.
well, uh, I am raring to go.
yes, i believe you are. cowboy, huh?
uh, yessir.
ready for hard work, son?
ready for anything.
i got a hunch, joe buck, it is going to be easier for you than most.
gonna be like money from home.
money from home, see, there is your strength, you put things in earthy terms any man can understand, son. i warn you I am going to use you, I am going to run you ragged!
you are a wonderful boy. you'n me going to have fun, dammit, it do not have to be joyless. say, why do not we get right down on our knees now?
get down -- where?
right here, why not? i prayed in saloons, i prayed in the street, i prayed an the toilet. he do not care where, what he wants is that prayer.
what is in your socks?
not a cent, i swear to god, i swear on my mother's eyes.
you keep the sixty-four cents. i want you to have it.
it is sticky. what you do, slobber on 'em? i would not touch 'em.
you want some free medical advice, shut your goddam mouth about that night.
okay, right, right, okay. another subject. where you living? still at the hotel?
listen, keep away from me, hear? you come near me again, i snatch you bald-headed!
I am inviting you. i mean if you are not located, i got a place. I am inviting you, goddamit.
you inviting shee-it.
smart thing for me to do is haul ass outta here.
whatsa matter now?
you do not seem like no fag...
what is that supposed to mean?
what for?
so you could sleep! i mean christ!
i drug in a cot, if you want to stay.
well now, ratso, I am going to tell you something for your own good, only first gimme a cigarette.
you want me to stay here tonight, is that the idea?
i am not forcing you, like, i mean, who is forcing you?
oh. guess i got the wrong impression.
i want you to stay, okay? i goddam invited you, did not i?
well, i hope you know what you are in for. I am a very dangerous person. someone does me bad like you. if i caught up with you that night, there would be one dead ratso long about now. hear?
I am impressed. you are a killer.
so if you want me to hang around for a few days, i thought you should know.
joe -- do me one favor -- this is my place, am i wrong? you know, in my own place my name am not ratso. i mean it so happens my name is enrico salvatore rizzo.
shee-it, man, i can not say all that.
rico then, at least call me rico in my own goddam place.
rico! rico! rico! is that enough?  and keep your meat hooks off my radio.
the two basic items necessary to sustain life are sunshine and coconut milk. that is a known fact. if i can find the goddam hole the milk squirts out.
this is an okay setup you got here, but I would say you am not just exactly, uh, flush, is that right or not?
i been sick. hold this, will ya?
in florida, they come smooth, ready to eat. down there, your only problem is, diet-wise, you gotta lift an arm to wipe warm milk off your chin. tough, hey?
i think finding you's the smartest thing i ever did, for both of us. you just the crooked kinda sneaky little sidewinder i need to get me hustling in this town. hey!
miami beach is the only place for a real hustler. florida has more rich chicks per square yard than any resort spot in the world. they lie out in their pagodas and pergolas waiting to grab the first jockstrap that passes.
what is all this sweet talk about florida? your friend o'daniel got a stable down there now?
look at yourself, joe, no offense, but frankly, you are beginning to smell. for a stud in this town that is a handicap.
you talk like a man with a tin twat.
you am not got a chance in hell. you need threads and glitter, baby. a front, hey?
well, uh, my manager's going to manage all that crap, or else he going to get a coconut up his flue.
hey, you are good! i bet you could pick up a living at this if you tried.
and end up a hunchback like my old man? you think I am crippled? you shoulda caught him the end of a day.
kee-rist, you pretty damn clever for a skimpy little gimp.
you like it? take a look.
do not rush me. how i do it, see, i get myself primed, like i was turning on the charm for some pretty little blonde lady, then kinda mosey away slow and easy and - swing around! -- and there you are, you handsome devil.
not bad -- for a cowboy -- you are okay, you are okay.
what I am going to do, I am going to make a cowboy outta you, kid. how about that? build you up a little, teach you couple little tricks'n turn y'out to stud, rat-stuff.
shee-it. cough yourself inside out, then light a fag, a goddam fag. you make me puke. where did you steal it? in the movies?
the coat? a guy i did a favor once gave it to me. christ.
who would you ever do a favor for? you just let some poor bastard freeze to death, would not you?
where did that come from?
forty-second street. where'n hell you think it come from?
you wanna know the truth? you dumb bastard, i got it for you. look at it. goddam thing's ten sizes too big for me.
kee-rist, you sure are one twisty little bastard, ratso.
the name's rico, at my own father's grave, a man deserves some respect.
respect shee-it! you even steal flowers for his grave.
can he smell the difference, eh?
well, uh, he dam well know he am not 'be-loved aunt winifred'.
he can not read. even dumber than you. could not write his own name. x -- that is what it ought to say there on that goddam headstone. one big lousy x like our flat. condemned. by order of city hall.
well, this thought just struck me. it was not too long ago i was washing dishes way the hell somewhere in texas.
yeah, well, so?
now I am here. I am in new york city. getting picked for things. do not you see what I am driving at?
what you are driving at, you want me to get lost so you can go to your fancy-ass party.
did i say that? did i?  it do not say nothing about you...
do not say nothing about you either.
but they picked me, right? so what I will do, I will just say, now look, you want me? well, i do not go nowhere without my buddy here.
well, what the hell, i got nothing better to do.
you got a comb?
do not need a comb.
few dozen cooties will not kill me, do not guess.
well, i made it. this here is ratso rizzo and i...
rico. rico rizzo.
i can tell, can not you?
yeah, oh yeah.
what will we do? leave now or what? your place or mine? oh god, the second i looked at you i knew. did you?
you really want to do business?
who is he? oh god! do not tell me you two are a couple -- ?
tell her, ratso.
twenty bucks...
sold. let's go.
... and taxi fare for me.
get lost.
i agree. and for that service i charge one dollar taxi fare.
he fell. hey, fella, you fell. is he all right?
is he all right!
well, if you are awright, why you hanging on the bannister. can you walk or not?
walk? naturally i can walk.
he is got taxi fare.
sure you are all right?
well, that is something never happened to me before, you can bet your bottom dollar. uh, where is the matches, ma'am?
top drawer. maybe if you did not call me ma'am, things would work out better.
you think I am lying!
no. of course not. just something struck me funny...
maybe we should take a little nap, see what happens?
i am not sleepy.
i know. scribbage!
that is pretty freudian, joe.
what? it is a perfectly good word, am not it. how much time i got?  goddam sand thing drive you crazy. kee-rist. spelling never was a very strong point with me. even in school.
if you did not talk so much, maybe you could think more.
talking helps. do not talk, you get muddled in your head. hey! now you just look at this here!
there is an e in money. if that is your word.
m-o-n-y -- I am right! that is just exactly how they spell it up there on that big building, bet you could see it from here. m-o-n-y.
okay. never argue with a man.
y -- what in hell starts with y?
cut it out. that is cheating, teasing me so i can not think. just one bitsy y word and i going to beat you!
you gonna beat me, joe?
beat your butt, you do not lemme think!
gay ends in y. fey. you like that -- gay fey -- is that your problem?
i show you what problem --
they wrong?
no. but while you was buying the underwear, i could have lifted the socks.
you could not lift fly specks from a sugar bowl. can you hold this?
but thanks.  hey, joe, do not get sore about this or anything. you promise?
yeah.
well, i do not think i can walk.  i mean, i been falling down a lot and, uh...
and what?
I am scared.
what of?
what will happen. i mean what they do to, you know, do with you -- if you can not -- ah, christ!
who?
i do not know. cops. or the -- how should i know?
okay. here it is. you going to go see the doctor. i got nine bucks and twenty more thursday and i going to be riding high before you know it. so you going to get you the best goddam doctor in this town and get yourself straightened out, that is what.
no doctors. no, sir. not me. doctors are like goddam auto mechanics. fix one-thing, unplug another. operate for piles and while they are there, they unscrew your liver. my old man, for god's sake, was not any sicker'n i am when he went to the doctor.
well, just exactly what the hell you think you are going to do? die on me?
I am going to florida, that is my only chance.
you know what is wrong with you? you got fevers. you kinky as a bedbug. how you going to get to florida?
I will find the money. if you just get me on the bus, that is all i ask.
just when everything's going my way, you got to pull a stunt like this.
i do not even want you to go. whaddya think of that? i got other plans for my life than dragging around some dumb cowboy that thinks he is god's gift to women. one twenty-buck trick and he is already the biggest stud in new york city. it is laughable.
a drink? I have got some nice gin. if you would prefer something else, they will send it up...
gin's okay.
it is so exciting. new york. the mad forward thrust of everything. my sense of time here is completely altered.
sometimes it seems to me time stopped twenty years ago. there was this war, there was this handsome young man with quite black hair and he was supposed to die. but he didn't. is not that amusing?
what?
what d'you want?
what?
what you got me up here for?
oh, difficult, it is so difficult. you are a nice person, joe -- i should never have asked you up -- a lovely person. oh, how i loathe life. i loathe it. please go. please.
you want me to leave?
no, yes. no, i mean yes please go. help me to be good. come back tomorrow. promise.
I am going to florida.
this is terrible. i meet someone who -- then -- wait, i want to give you a present. for your trip. you will let me please...
listen, i gotta have money.
oh. yes. of course. i should have thought. you should not have to ask. that was thoughtless of me. yes. wait here...
here. do not even thank me.
i got to have more'n ten. i got to have fifty-seven dollars.
i simply do not have it, joe.
get outta my way.
you are wasting your time. there is nothing in there.
these guys're good drivers.
they gotta be.
yeah.
you get your first palm tree in south carolina.
how'n hell a dumb bronx kid like you know that?
i read it.
shee-it. you believe all you read?
if you have to shiver, why do not you pull the blanket up more?
i been thinking. i hope we are not going to have a lotta trouble about my name down there. because like what is the whole point of this trip anyway?
keep the goddam blanket on.
i mean new york's one thing, but can you see this guy, imagine it, running around the goddam beach all suntan and he is going in swimming, like, and then somebody yells 'hey, ratso' -- how does that sound to you?
sounds like they knew you.
sounds like crap, admit it. and I am not going to have it. I am rico all the time, okay, do you blame me? that is agreed, okay? we are going to tell all these new people my name's rico?
hey -- whatsa matter?
I am wet.
you are what?
i wet my pants! my seat's all wet.
hell, do not cry about it!
here i am going to florida and my leg hurts, my butt hurts, my chest hurts, my face hurts, and like that am not enough, i got to pee all over myself.
I am falling apart, that is funny?
you just -- just -- what happened, you just had a little rest stop was not on the schedule.
hey, what the hell you doing?
I am zipping your fly, what the hell you think I am doing?
thanks, joe.
shee-it, you know, i got this thing all figured out, ratso. i mean rico. when we get to miami, what I will do, I will go to work. i got to do that, 'cause see, i am not no kind of a hustler. i am not even any goddam good as a bum. I am a nothing, that is what i am. so reckon I would better go to work and get me a goddam job. okay?
