okay, jad, what is coming?
red ball -- double homicide: one male, one female.  killer's male, white, 40's.
we need confirmation on the time frame.  location still uncertain. remote witnesses are hooked in...
case #1108, previsualized by the precogs and recorded on holoshpere by precrime's q-stacks.  my fellow witnesses for case #1108 are dr. katherine james and chief justice frank pollard.
we can not grab it...
run the subscription list...
he looks familiar.
who?
the man across the street.  I have seen him before...
how can you even tell?  you know how blind you are without your glasses.
got him in the foxhall.  4421 gainsborough.
send a dcpd blue & white out there, set up a perimeter and tell 'em we are en route.  what is our confirmed time?
from solar position, trig & image confirms it at approximately eight oh-four a.m.
seventeen minutes.
armor up -- sick-sticks and concussion guns -- this is gonna be close.
chief, the investigator from the fed is here.
you are kidding, that is today?
i wrote it down in your calendar, then left a message at your house --
all i need, some twink from the fed poking around right now.  check again with the paper, they had it forwarded.  see if the neighbors know where they went, check all relations --
uh, sir...
get him some coffee and tell him to wait outside.
I am sorry danny, but I will have to give you the full tour later on.
your secretaries were all kind enough to give me a look around the office...
what he is doing now, we call "scrubbing the image", looking for clues as to where the murder's going to happen.
the brick has been repointed, the glass is original with new glazing bars.  i show composite mouldings with dentils.  someone took care in the renovation.  let's find the architect...
victims are pronounced here. killers here.  we never touch anything.
i show a cop on horseback.
somewhere near the capital?
no maglev system.
the mall?
georgetown.
this is evanna, the team pilot.
nice to meet you.  gum?
so if you wanna kill someone, you take him to miami.
not after the vote next week.  once the amendment passes, we go national, there is going to be nowhere to run.
can not they shut that off?
that is the red ball alarm.
crime of passion.  no premeditation.  they show up late. most of our scrambles are flash events like this one.  we rarely see anything with premeditation anymore.
people have gotten the message.  gum?
what about your meeting?
I will reschedule.  I have been working too much anyway.
we could have lunch together.
I would love to, but I have got an open house today at the ressler place.
ah.  that must be why you look so nice.
raincheck?
sure.  raincheck.
tell me not to worry, john.
do not worry, lamar.
the nation votes this week...
which makes this the worst possible time to show that we are only human.
uh-huh...
has the observer from justice shown up yet?
hang on, lamar --
look at the kid.  in this one, he is on the left of the man in the suit.
yeah?  so?
now look at him...
as i recall, they outlawed compression firearms in the district ten years ago.
they did.  make yourself comfortable.  we will be back in an hour.
you mind if i tag along?
go ahead.
did he close the front door?
what?
did marks close the front door?!
howard --
i forgot my glasses.
i scored a goal!
that is great.
i won!
what a big boy.  how old are you?
four.  wow.  what a big boy.  i love you, sean.
i love you, too!  i love you daddy.  love ya, dad.
and this is exactly the kind of behavior that will give them an excuse to do it.
lamar, I am sorry.  i do not know what --
do not apologize, john.
you understand that a week from now people are going to vote on whether or not what we have been doing down here has been some noble-minded enterprise or a chance to change the way this country fights crime.
i understand.  sir.
i need you to do two things for me. one, watch danny witwer.
yes, sir.
you can let him look around, answer his questions, but watch him.  if there is any problems, make sure we know about it first.
i understand.  what is the other thing?
tuck in your shirt.
the information we need is embedded in the grain of wood.  and since each piece is unique, the shape and grain is impossible to duplicate.
I am sure you have all grasped the legalistic drawback to precrime methodology.
but it is not the future if you stop it.  is not that a fundamental paradox?
yes, it is.
why did you catch that?
because it was going to fall.
you are certain?
yes.
but it did not fall.  you caught it.
the fact that you prevented it from happening does not change the fact that it was going to happen.
you ever get any false positives? someone intends to kill his boss or his wife, but they never go through with it.  how do the precogs tell the difference?
the precogs do not see what you intend to do, only what you will do.
then why can not they see rapes, or assaults... or suicides?
because of the nature of murder.  "there's nothing more destructive to the metaphysical fabric that binds us than the untimely murder of one human being by another".
somehow, i do not think that was walt whitman.
it was iris hineman.  she developed the precogs, designed the system and pioneered the interface.
speaking of interfacing, I would love to say hello.
to hineman?
to them.
cops are not allowed inside the temple.
really?  you have never been inside?
we keep a strict separation so that no one can accuse us of tampering.
so I will be the first one to go in then?
maybe you did not hear me.
if it is a question of authority.
there is no question.  you do not have any.
i have a warrant in my pocket that says different.
i can not touch you!  and john, you can not be in here!  you will confuse them!
wally.  this is danny witwer.  he is from justice and we are to give him a full run of the farm.
nice to meet you, wally.
shhh!  they are sleeping.
tell me how all this works.
they are not in any pain.  we keep their heads pretty well stocked with dopamine and endorphins. plus, we maintain careful control over their serotonin levels -- do not want 'em to drift off to sleep, but they can not be kept too awake either.
it helps if you do not think of them as human.
i find it interesting that some people have begun to deify the precogs.
the precogs are pattern recognition filters, nothing more.
but you call this room the "temple".
just a nickname.
the oracle is not where the power is anyway.  the power's always been with the priests.  even if they had to invent the oracle.
you guys are nodding your heads like you actually know what the hell he is talking about.
come on, chief, you think about it, the way we work -- changing destiny and all -- we are more like clergy than cops.
uh-huh.  jad?
sir?
go back to work.  all of you.
sorry.  old habit.  i spent three years at fuller seminary before i became a cop.  my father was a minister.  lutheran.
what does he think of your chosen line of work?
i do not know.  he was shot and killed when i was fourteen on the steps of his church in bethesda.
at least now you -- and i -- have the chance to make sure that kind of thing does not happen to anyone ever again.
why do not you cut the cute act, danny, and tell me exactly what it is you are looking for?
flaws.
there has not been a murder in six years.  there is nothing wrong with the system.  it is perfect.
i agree.  the system is perfect. if there is a flaw, it is human.  it always is.  thank you for the tour, wally.
wally!
can you see?
her pituitary dumped a week's worth into her system... what did you do to her?
nothing... she grabbed me, and then there was an image on the screen...
she grabbed you?  impossible.  the precogs are not even aware of us. in the milk all they see is the future.
she was looking right at me.
it could have been a nightmare... sometimes they dream about the old murders.
she spoke to me.
to you?  i do not think so...  what did she say?
she said...
you the sentry?
yes, sir.  I am gideon.  the music relaxes the prisoners.
i do not ever see any of you precops down here, I am not in trouble am i?
no, you are not in trouble.  I am interested in a murder.
kill type?
drowning.
victim's a white female.
this about the justice department?  they laid on a tour for tomorrow a.m.  told me to wear a tie.  you like this one?
that is an old one.  one of our first.
this is the official composite of the three precogs?
that is right.  it is a combined data stream based on all three previsions.
show me just agatha's data stream.
for that, we have to go for a ride.
you the only sentry?
i work graveyard, swing and day all by my lonesome.
hence the expression...
... graveyard shift.
not to mention, "saved by the bell".
why is he still a john doe?  why was not he ever id's from an eyescan?
on account of those are not his eyes.  he had 'em swapped out to fool the scanners.
huh, we do not seem to have her data.
try again.
no... we have the two previsions from the twins right here, but...  ... i can not pull up any data from the female.  probably just a glitch.
hey, you wanna know where the word came from, "glitch?"
just tell me about the intended victim.  this anne lively...
looks like she was a neuroin addict like john doe here, but i show an address history that includes the beaton clinic.
so she cleaned up.  where is she now?
and you say the third prevision was, what, a little fuzzy or something?
I am saying the third prevision was not there.  and that is not all. i spent a few hours down there and it turns out there is a dozen more cases with missing previsions.
danny witwer is scheduled for a tour of containment tomorrow --
so give him a tour.  he does not know enough to ask the right questions.
if he is looking for a flaw in the system --
he is not.  he is looking for a flaw in us, john.
lara called me.
what?
she is worried about you.  and, quite frankly, so am i.
I am fine.
i hear you have been spending a lot of time in the sprawl.
i go running down there.
in the middle of the night?
what if danny witwer came to you right now and insisted on a full chem run?
I am fine, lamar.
you understand, john, that the minute precrime goes national, they are going to take it away from us.
we will not let them.
no?  how is an old man and a cop on the whiff ever going to stop them?
jad.  how come you are not out there with father witwer?
we are in motion on something.
red ball?
nope.  somebody is thinking about this one.
amazing there is someone within two hundred miles actually dumb enough to still do that.
the victim's name is leo crow.
start a location run and a contact search for future victim leo crow.  and, jad, I will need a last known sheet when you get it.
I have got no address -- last known or otherwise -- no tax returns for the last five years.
check ncic, maybe he is got a record.  then send a protection team as soon as we lock the location.
i show time of occurrence, friday at fifteen-zero-six hours.
that was easy.
confirm with trig and image.
any id on the shooter yet?
still scrubbing... looks like there is a third party, somebody wearing shades just out the window...
uh, yeah, you mind getting me a piece of that cake they are eating down there?  I am starving.
sure, chief.  i think I will grab one for myself while I am at it...
take your time.
you set me up...
I will write the paranoia off to the whiff you been doping on all night.
it seems I have found a flaw, john  you.
you gonna tell on me?
possession alone will cost you six months, not to mention your badge.
just so you know, I have overridden the vehicle locator.  i just wanted to talk to you before justice --
justice already knows.  talk to me, john.  tell me what is happening?
this is all witwer.  he is setting me up.
stop.  just wait.  who is the victim?
somebody named leo crow.
and who the hell is that?
i have no idea.  I have never heard of him.  but I am supposed to kill him in less than thirty-six hours.
all right, john, just take a breath, let's think about this...
I am out of breath!  I am a fucking fugitive!
then come to my house.  we will talk --
i can't.  they are following me right now.  they will meet me there. they will halo me.
how could witwer have accessed the case file?
can you fake the cerebral output?
we are years from that.  john, I am asking you: please, come in, we will shut down the system until we get this thing figured out.
you know i can not do that.  you can not do that...  lamar, i need you to talk to wally, see if witwer's gone inside the temple again.  then ask jad for any off hour eyedents into the analytical room --
john.  just tell me, who is leo crow?
john.  please.  listen to me --
I am not getting halo'd.
you can not run --
everybody runs.
do not worry.  I will bring him in unharmed.
actually, gordon, you are not going to do that.  I am taking control of the team.
what?!
he came to see you yesterday. right before he got tagged.  what did you talk about?
the mets.  john does not think they have got a deep enough pitching roster this year, and I am inclined to agree.
why are you protecting him?  you knew he was doping, yet you did nothing about it.
the man lost a child, for christ's sake...
six years ago.  what did you two talk about yesterday afternoon?
none of your damn business.
oh, it is all my damn business now, lamar.  investigation of a supervising office for a capital crime falls under federal jurisdiction... so as to rule out any possibility of conspiracy.  he is my suspect.
he is my subordinate!
shall we call the attorney general? I am sure he would be happy to clarify the issue for you.
i do not want john anderton hurt.
sir, the team's going to be light without those men.
yes, i know.
do not run, chief.  you know we will catch you.  you trained us.
everybody runs.
you do not have to do this, chief.
you do not have to chase me, fletcher.
something wrong?
I am a little dizzy...
yes, I am afraid that would be from the doll's eye.
the what?
the vine -- the baneberry that scratched you during your illegal climb over my wall...
you have three minutes to tell me what you are doing here before i feed you to a few of my more predacious plants.
i'm... not... a... killer.
just what is it you think i can do for you?
you can tell me how someone... could fake a prevision.
and how would i know that?
what is so funny?
if the unintended consequences of a series of genetic mistakes and science gone haywire can be called invention, then yes, i invented precrime.
you do not seem all that proud.
I am not.  i was trying to heal them, not turn them into... something else.
heal who?
the innocents we now use to stop the guilty.
you are talking about the precogs...
you think the three in the tank come from a test tube?  they are merely the ones who survived.
it began as play.  a guessing game like you play with any toddler, except these children always guessed right.  and then the nightmares started. they were all different, but all the same.  they were all about murder.  and the murders were all happening.
and how did lamar become involved?
back then, he was still a da, and quite a few parents of my patients had passed through his courtroom. you have to understand, these people were the dregs of society. but once they saw their children... he decided he would do whatever he could for them.  he is that way, you know, paternal about certain things.  precrime.  the precogs. you.
you say some of the children died?
so many of them... despite what we did for them.  or maybe because of what we did to them.  it does not matter.  it is a perfect system now, is not it?
I am not a murderer.  I have never even met the man I am supposed to kill.
and, yet, a chain of events has started.  a chain that will lead inexorably to his death.
not if i stay away from him.
how can you avoid a man you have never met?
so you will not help me?
i can not help you.  no one can.  the precogs are never wrong.
what?
most of the time, all three precognitives will see an event in the same way.  but once in a while, one of them will see things differently than the other two.
jesus christ -- why did not i know about this?
because these minority reports are destroyed the instant they occur.
why?
obviously, for precrime to function, there can not be any suggestion of fallibility.  after all, what good is a justice system that instills doubt?  it may be reasonable, but it is still doubt.
you are saying that I have halo'd innocent people?
I am saying that every so often those accused of a precrime might, just might, have an alternate future.
does burgess know about this? about the minority report?
i used to joke with lamar that we were the mother and father of precrime.  well, in my experience, parents often see their children as they want them to be, not as they are.
answer my question.  did lamar burgess know about the minority report?
yes, of course, he knew, but at the time, he felt -- we both felt their existence was... an insignificant variable.
insignificant to you maybe, but what about those people i put away with alternate futures?  my god, if the country knew there was a chance they might not --
the system would collapse.
i believe in that system...
do you?  really?
you want to bring it down.
but you will bring it down if you kill leo crow.  why, that will be the most spectacular public display of how precrime... did not work.
I am not going to kill anybody.
hold that thought.
why should i trust you?
you shouldn't.  you should not trust anyone... certainly not the attorney general who wants it all for himself.  not the young federal agent who wants your job.  not even the old man who just wants to hang onto what he is created.  do not trust anyone.  just find the minority report.
you said they are destroyed.
i said the record is destroyed. the original report exists for all time.  i designed the system so that whenever a report occurred, it would be stored in a safe place -- but not declared.
what safe place is that?
the safest place of all.
where?
inside the precog who predicted it.  all you have to do is download it.
that is all, huh?  just walk right into precrime, go into the temple, somehow tap into the precogs, and then download this minority report...
if... you have one.
-- and then walk out.
actually, i think you will have to run out, but yes, that is what you have to do.
you are insane or you think i am.
I will get eyescanned a dozen times before i get within ten miles of precrime.  they will pick me up...
sometimes in order to see the light, you have to risk the dark.
how do i even know which one has it?
it is always in the more gifted of the three.
which one is that?
the female.
here's where we are at.  three men in a room.  the victims here. anderton here, and this unidentified male out the window. the exterior of the adjacent building suggests public housing, but i can not make out the location. government architecture is modern/conformist which means --
there is thousands of units like this one.
they are everywhere.
anderton's smart enough to go where electronic billboards and other media can not id him to pick his pocket.  there is fewer consumers down there, which means fewer scanners to target him.
no offense, sir, but why would not he just run?
because he thinks he is innocent.
do not worry.  i could cut open your chest, sew a dead cat in there and you would never get an infection.  not with the spectrum of antibios I will be shooting into you.
that is comforting.
you do understand i can not just give you new irises.  the scanners will read the scar tissue.  alarms will go off.  large men with guns will appear...
right.  i know --
anesthesia.  try to relax, john.  I am saying I will have to remove your eyes.  completely.
yeah --
and replace them with new ones.
i know that, but i wanna keep the old ones.
why?
because my mother gave them to me. what do you care?  they are no good to you on the secondary market anyway.
whatever you say, john.
that is not much.
it is all i could safely move.
tell you what, since you and i go way back, I will give you my old pal discount.  how is that sound?
you do not remember me, do you?
we know each other?
oh, yes.
from where?  d.c.?
baltimore.  eastside.  solomon p. eddie m.d.  i was a plastic surgeon.
i put you away --
yes, you did.
you made those tapes...
they were performance pieces.
you set your patients on fire!
and put them out.  some not as quickly as others, but let's change the subject, shall we?  the future is much more interesting than the past.  do not you think?
so uh, if you were a plastic surgeon before...
how can i do what i do now?  let's just say i spent a lot of time in the prison library.
my name is danny witwer.  I am --
i know who you are.
this your work?
yes.
i like it.
thanks.  you take anything in your coffee?
cream and sugar.
i do not have any cream.  sorry.
just sugar then.  you and john ever come here?
we used to, every summer.
he is not here now, is he?
i do not have any sugar either.
thank you.  he has not tried to contact you?
no.
you ever heard him mention the name leo crow?
no, but then i do not talk to john that much anymore.
so you have not seen his apartment?
that was our apartment.
have you been there recently?
since right after we lost our son.
you mean after he lost your son.
it was nobody's fault.
but john was with him at the pool?
yes.
you said in your divorce papers that he tried to kill himself.
it was not a suicide attempt.  i regret ever saying that.
what was it then?
the fbi found something that belonged to my son.  a sandal... anyway, john was upset. he... he...
he took out his gun and sat down to watch his home movies.  this is all in your statement, lara...
he shot a hole in the damn ceiling. so what?  you lose your son, let's see how well you handle it.
not very well, I am sure.  I would probably start doping myself.  or maybe i'd...
lamar burgess thinks that you left john because he lost himself in precrime instead of you.
i left him because every time i looked at him, i saw my son.  every time i got close to him, i smelled my little boy.  that is why i left him.  and now you can leave.
you know i need to use you.
to what?  trap him?
to prevent a murder.  sooner or later, he is going to contact you.
i have not seen him in two years.
but I have seen the three hundred hours of your image he is got stored away.
there is food in the refrigerator. make sure you drink a lot of water.
how do i find the --
here --
it goes from the bathroom to the kitchen.
i can not even stand up --
i know you are in a hurry, so i juiced up the nano-reconstruction around your new eyes.
the nano... what?
organic microbots that reconstruct the nerves and blood vessels. it will feel like fleas chewing on your eyeballs.  but whatever you do, do not scratch.
I am setting up a timer.  when it goes off tomorrow, take off your bandages and get the hell out of here.  but not before then, or you will --
-- go blind.  i know.
okay... now let me time you.
are you kidding?  there is absolutely positively no way, on my best day, i could ever beat twelve seconds!
come on!
all right, I will try...
that is why you asked to partner with me on this little sortie, is not it?
i think you are swell company, knott.
it is not at all that you do not trust me to be alone with the chief.  that you think i might, you know, fuck with him, if i had the chance...
people, if you do not let the spyder scan you, we will have to come in and arrest you.
knott!
there are two others in the room besides anderton and crow.
two?
wally, listen to me...
do i know you?  who are you?
i like you, wally, so I am not going to kick you, or hit you with anything, but only if you promise to help me...
oh... hi, john.
are these all of her previsions?
there is no way of knowing for sure. she could have forgotten whatever it is you are looking for...
just go to the beginning!
okay.  fine.  where the hell is that?
they have never been separated before.
what does he want with a precog?
what do you think?  so he can kill whoever he wants to without anyone knowing about it.
but there is still the other two.
wally, the other two can still function, right?
you do not understand... they are a hive mind.  it takes all three for their predictive abilities to work.
are you telling me they can not see murders anymore?
maybe if he would taken one of the males.  but the female, she is the key.  she is the one they listen to, the one with the most talent.  the one who takes care of the other two.
jesus...
it does not matter.  he wins.
we can stop him.
she is in the room with him when he kills crow.  she is already a part of his future.
I am sorry, but i need your help. you contain information.  i need to know how to get it.  can you just tell me who leo crow is?  can you tell me if --
is it now?
what?
is it now?
he is trying to prove his innocence.
he can not download her without a lot of technical help.
no.  he can't...
near death's real popular right now, which includes everything from getting hit by a car, to falling off a high building to plane crashes.  it is a big rush, you come out the other side without a heart attack.
i wanna kill my boss.
uh-huh.  okay.  you got some images i can work with?
right here.
good.  what i can do is set you up down in the --
uh, yeah, being concert master of the philadelphia symphony orchestra is one of our most popular choices...
no, i wanna kill my boss!
get the hell outta here.  you sick bastard.
detective.  nice of you to come down here.  seeing as every cop in the world is looking for you right now.  jesus, what is up with your eye?
i need your help.
well, hey, you did not have to come all the way down here.  for you, chief, i make housecalls...
i need help with her.
well, hello there, honey-pie.
I am impressed, anderton.  you are on the lam, but you still got the time and energy to slice off a little jerky for yourself.
rufus.  she is a precog.
she is a precog?
that is right.
are you reading my mind right now?
rufus, for christ's sake, get up.
I am sorry for whatever I am going to do!  and i swear, i did not do any of the stuff i did!
she is got information inside of her.  i need you to get it out.
no.  no way.  i would not even know where to begin!  those thoughts about my cousin elena -- they were just thoughts. i would never --
c'mon, rufus, you have been busted twice for felony hacking.
so?
so now i need you to hack into her.
i tell you what.  i do this, i get to keep whatever images i get from her head.
they do not belong to anybody.
then take her to radio shack.
stop --
tell me how.
what happened?  where is the rest?
i guess that is all of it.
rufus, play it back...
uh, I will try...
what?
they are inside.
who?
take it.
agatha...
agatha --
can you see the balloon man?
what?
drop some money.
forget that guy --
do it.  right here.  on the ground.
no.  follow him.
he will turn around.
he won't.
agatha...
wait.
he is here.
anderton, leave.
i can't.  i have to know.
please --
i have to find out what happened to my life.  agatha.  I am not going to kill the man.  i do not even know him.
oh, god...
what is it?
every day for the last six years I have thought about only two things. the first was what my son would look like if he were alive today. if i would even recognize him if i saw him on the street.  the second was what i would do to the man who took him.
anderton --
you were right.  I am not being set up.
please, i want to go back...
i can not leave.  you said so yourself, there is no minority report.  i do not have an alternative future.
but you still have a choice.  the others never had a chance to see their future.  you did.
six years ago.  baltimore.  you grabbed a kid at francis public pool in the west end.
did i?  i do not recall... i got lots of kids from that place --
do you know who i am?
some -- somebody is father?
his name was sean.  six years ago. francis pool.
... and that i needed his help.  it was not so bad really.  i sang him a song, made him laugh, bought him a pretzel.  i took care of him.  i made him happy.
he is alive?
where have you got him?  is he all right?  tell me, you fuck -- where is he?!
i put him in a barrel and sunk him in the bay.
it floated back up.  i had to take him out and --
no!
you are not going to kill me?
no.
but you have to.  they said you would.
the precogs were wrong.
if you do not kill me, my family gets nothing!
you are supposed to kill me.  he said you would.
who said i would?
look, I have put my family through enough misery.  you got to kill me! this way i can leave 'em something.
crow.  I am not going to kill you.
look, believe me, i know it is hard, but you got to do it --
I am asking you again, who made you do this?
i do not know -- i never saw his face.  all i know is, the next day i was out, so the guy must have had juice somewhere.  look, man, you got to go through with this.
what the fuck is going on?
what about the picture --
fake.  he gave it to me.  now --  -- shoot me, goddammit, before i lose my nerve!
tell me, who was it, set this up?
if i tell you, my family gets nothing.
who made you do this?
kill me!
tell me!
let go of the gun.
you are not going to kill me...
good-bye, crow.
there a maid in this hotel?
i do not know, why?
if you were a child killer, you took these pictures, would you leave them out on the bed for anyone to find?
they could have been put away. anderton could have found them.
what kind of cop were you before this?
i was a treasury agent for eight years.  why?
treasury... then this would be your first actual murder scene.
i worked homicide before i went federal.  this is what we would have called an "orgy of evidence".  do you know how many orgies i had as a homicide copy, gordon?
how many?
none.  this was arranged.
john?
he is dead, lara.
oh, god, what did you do?
nothing.  i did not kill him.
then how did he --
lara, i do not know why this is happening.  i just know they are setting me up.  i can not trust anybody.  i do not know who to talk to or where to go...  lara?  are you there?
where are we going?
someplace safe.
i have to go back.
why?
the other two will die without me.
you want to spend the rest of your life in the temple?
i always wondered what the world would be like.  but now that I have seen it, i do not need to see any more.  it is all right.  once I am in the tank, i will not remember any of this.
agatha, you are never going back there.
i am going back.  i see myself there.
lamar, i found something.
what?
i do not wanna say over the phone, but i think we may be chasing the wrong man.
where are you?
good god.  what was that?
wait, just a second...
he told me about this.  you got this from containment?
yes.  this is from the twins, arthur and dashiel.  agatha's stream was missing.  now this one is from the cyberparlor.  anderton downloaded it directly from agatha. watch...
it is the same prevision.
not quite.
now the second image.  watch the water.  the wind's changed.  the ripples are going the other way.
i do not understand --
this murder is happening at two different times.
according to the sentry, anderton was watching this at containment right before he was tagged.
i know.  he came to me, told me about the missing data stream.  he was concerned that you might find it.
i did find it.  it was inside of agatha all this time.  so the question is, why would someone want this erased from the data file?
danny, tell me what you are thinking.
I am thinking someone got away with murder.
how?
by fooling the system.  all someone would have to do is wait for precrime to stop the murder from taking place, then, a few minutes later, commit the crime in exactly the same way.
yes... it is called an echo.  the act of murder is such a violent disturbance in the future continuum that it sometimes repeats to the precogs.
precog deja vu...
we teach the tech's to identify them and disregard...
so there is a way to fool the system?
yes.
of course, it would have to be someone with access to the prevision in the first place, someone fairly high up --
shhh.  you know what i hear?
what?
nothing.  no footsteps coming up the stairs.  no hovercraft out the window.  no clickity click of little spyders.  no one crashing through that door.  and do you know why i do not hear any of those things, danny?  because right now, the precogs can not see.
-- but he didn't.
then who was he?
just some guy... they found.
found?  where?
somewhere.
think, john.  why would they set you up?
because i found out about her...
about who?
anne lively...
I am so sorry... i just want him back... i want him back so bad...
i know... i do, too...
can not you see?  she just wanted her little girl back.
who wanted her little girl back?
the drowning woman.  anne... but it was too late.  her little girl was already gone.
she died?
she grew up.
she is still alive?
she is not alive, but she did not die.
oh, jesus...
john?  what is it?
how did i not see this?  agatha, who killed you mother?  who killed anne lively?
I am sorry, john, but you have to run again.
what --
run!
you are part of my flock now, john. welcome.
lara --
it is actually kind of a rush.  they say you get visions; that your life flashes before your eyes.  that all your dreams come true.
sean -- you are not real.
you gotta have faith, dad.
it is a little late for that.
wanna hear something funny?
what the hell.
i lived for a year with a man who was pretending to be my father.  he took me all over the world.
you are alive?
no.  he got tired of pretending.
oh, sean --
the funny thing is, i started to believe he really was my dad.
sean --
i feel bad about that.  i need you to forgive me.
i forgive you.
once i even told him i loved him.
i forgive you...
the more you want to believe something, the easier it is to be fooled.
i was looking for you...
i know that.  i know you would have done anything to find me.  i know you would have died for me.
i wanted to.
good-bye, dad...
who are you?
I am your son.  I am you.
sean, wait...
hold your breath, dad...
this is all my fault.
no, it isn't, lamar.  there was nothing anyone could do.
i have not worn this damn thing in years.  i just wanted to make sure it fits before tonight.
you look great.
the guy from usa today is here.
tell him not now.
he just wanted a few minutes before --
not.  now.
it is insanity around here.
i thought you were retiring?
i was, but this whole incident with john made me realize the fragility of what we have built here.  this is john's legacy as much as mine and i want to protect that.
who?
anne lively.  john was talking about her right before they took him.
i do not know who that is.
john said something about him being set up because he "found out about her."
we know why john was tagged.
he also said crow was a fake.
lamar, do you know the reason why john came here to work with you?
sean --
no.  that is what everyone thinks.  john shot a man dead in baltimore six months before.
i understand.
no.  i do not think you do.  the other day, when he came to the cottage, he talked about a lot of things, but danny witwer, the man he was supposed to have just killed?  he did not mention him.  he did not say his name even once.
but i also know why he married you: you are as stubborn as he is.
lamar --
all right.  tell you what I will do. first thing monday, I will look over the witwer evidence and I will have gideon run the containment files, see if anyone drowned a woman named -- what did you say her name was?
anne lively... but i never said she drowned.
sir, the press conference is starting.
I will be right there.
why do not i feel like celebrating?
cause all of a sudden you got no one you can fucking brown nose anymore.
john anderton was my friend!
you "friend's" a murderer and he ruined our perfect record.  six years, not one damn murder...
congratulations, sir.
my god...
how did you get this?
i padded your expense account for the last six months.
you have an emergency call on your private line.
thank you.  this is burgess.
john --
i just wanted to congratulate you. you did it.  you have created a world without murder.  so what if you had to kill someone to do it.
people want to believe in the system.  that is the beauty of it...
beauty?  the precogs do not even always agree with each other!
no doubt the precogs have already seen this.
no doubt.
then go ahead, pull the trigger.
