you keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, doctor..
well, yes.  i suppose i am a bit anxious.
they are ready and waiting.  you will soon be with old friends.
I am with an old friend now, dmitri.
sorry it could not be under happier circumstances.
yes, I am sorry too.. 'you're sorry and I am sorry..'  - you do know gradski thought the world of you.
he was quite a man.  did he know before the end you two had succeeded?
yes, he knew.  just..
..not in time to save him.
no.  after you have lived with <i>chimera</i> for twenty hours, nothing can save you.  not even...<i>bellerophon.</i>
..it seems we have a problem, dmitri.
you keep calling me dmitri.  you really shouldn't.
- pull the no2 tank and dump it, it is potential evidence..
all done, chief..
- right -  - do not go too far ahead of me now -
not possible..
checkpoint charlie plus 30, altitude minus two-zero-thousand.  airspeed one-seven- niner knots..
it is that time.  go.
do you know me?
no.  should i?
no.  you just looked as if you did.
no.  just as if I would like to.
oh.  well.  i think that can be arranged.
not tonight.  bad timing.  sorry -
there is not enough time in the world for any of it to be bad.
look, it is either you or the rent and i do not mind telling you it is not an easy choice.
what if i pay the rent?
uh-huh.
uh-huh?
what are you doing here?
think you are the only one who can pick a lock?
i see.  you are not just another pretty face..
would you mind if I am on top?
oh, either way works for me.
- right..where is it?
far right.
where is the bloody -
- torque wrench.
- this is very disconerting..
hey, you put me here.  i just do what I am told.
- right..
i would not do that.
do what?
under the circumstances i think we would recommend re-setting the senors to respond to a lighter load.  how do you feel about forty kilos, miss hall?
indeed.
well, senor de l'arena, there is no reason to disrupt your party any longer.  we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you will receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow.  shall we?
I am missing something here, aside from a 500,000 pound necklace.  even after i botched the job, i could have walked out of there with the bloody thing.
at least you walked.
if you were not going to let me get away with it, why did you let me go thru with it?
wanted to see how good you were. I am hoping we might work together.
may i say something, no offence?  you look like a gigolo, you sound like a thief, you act like a cop - what the bloody hell do you have in mind?
working under adverse conditions.  highly adverse conditions.
sounds smashing.  I am in.  muchacho, mi carro, por favor!  now be serious.  you could not possibly want me off tonight's performance..
you did not do that badly.
you are apologizing for me?  quite the gentleman..
not really.  i triggered the alarm..
hola..
hi.  would you mind slowing down?
where did you get this number?  i do not even have it!
pull over and listen to me, will you? just listen..
listen to what?
i need your help and i thin you can use mine.
your help?  what are you talking about?
scotland yard, interpol, every dutch authority.  i can make them go away.
oh bloody hell.  you are a spy.
what is you name?
ethan hunt.
well, ethan hunt, what is it you want to talk to me about?
awfully short notice..
care to wait a decent interval?
who wants to be decent?..
when they have got your recruiting technique?  not a thing.
oh.  well..this is not exactly by the book.
they have got a book for this?
they have got a book for everything.
the only other spook i knew was a liar. charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth.  he would lie about his favorite color.  but then i reckon it is an occupational hazard.  all spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies.
not revealing information does not necessarily make someone a liar.
that is not the point.  in the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don't.
which is?
that they are lying.
so where did i got right?
you are not a liar.  or you are an awfully good one..  ..this thing these blokes pinched..
i do not know that they 'pinched' it. do not even know that they are blokes.
well, then, what i am i doing here?  i assume I am meant to be some sort of thief-to catch-a-thief..
so do i.  sort of.
spoken like a spook..you ever afraid?
of what?
ask a question, you get an answer!..
damn, you are beautiful.
that is because I am on my back.
sorry i did not let you know where i was.
do not be.  would not be on vacation if you did.
well.  you are sorry and I am sorry.
why did you phrase it like that?
like what?
'you're sorry and I am sorry.'
you gotta be kidding.
..i'm fine..and you?
I am fine..
an idea, yeah.
like?
like it is a good idea to pick him up in a hurry.  and a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier.  so let's get on with it.  he is still in sydney?
dr. vladimir nekhorvich is dead.  so is his colleague, gradski, but that happened earlier.  we had nekhorvich on a flight from sydney that crashed in the rockies..
if he did not want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him on the flight?
you were there.
when i could not find you, i had to replace you.  sean ambrose was the obvious choice. he double you, what?  two, three times?
twice.
what did you think of him?
you know we had reservations about each other.  is not it a little late in the day to be asking me that?
not necessarily.
so there is one thing we know ambrose doesn't.
then you do think it was ambrose.
whatever nekhorvich was carrying sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it.
enough to kill nekhorvich and two hundred innocent passengers?
sean feels he has not done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground.
the question is why?  what was this chimera nekhorvich was carrying?
right now only ambrose knows that.
in any case, you have got to recover chimera and bring it to us.
in order to do that, I have got to figure out how he plans to make money with it.
- right.  in fact since the plane went down our banking sources have confirmed a marked increase in the stock pilling of cash in terrorists accounts.
'terrorists?'
well you know nekhorvich's history. you are the one who got him out of the soviet union was it still in bio- weapon business.
if that is what you are thinking ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane.  locating him in time to stop something like that -
- is where miss hall comes in.
excuse me?
miss hall and ambrose had a relationship which he took very seriously.  she walked away and he is wanting her back ever since.  we believe she is our surest and quickest way of location him.
and then what?
then makes sure she continues to see him. gets him confide in her and report to you.
you made it sound as if i was recruiting her for her skills as a thief.
well, then i mislead you.  or you made the wrong assumption.  either way we are asking her to resume a prior relationship, not do anything she has not already done.
she is got no training for this kind of thing.
go to bed with a man and lie to him? she is a woman.  she is got all the training she needs.
i do not think i can get her to do it.
you mean it will be difficult.
very.
well it is not mission <i>difficult,</i> hunt. it is mission <i>impossible.</i>  difficult should be a walk in the park for you.  if you can think of a quicker way to get to ambrose, you are welcome to try.  oh, by the way, you might want to take a look at these..if you have any further qualms about getting her to do the job.
what is the population of seville any idea?
five, six-hundred thousand.
there is nearly 2 million in london.
and six billion in the world.
that is lot of people out there..how many of them, i wonder, are capable of something like that?
sean ambrose, for one.
not that it matter much but..i seem to recall you staying something like, 'i was hoping we could work together.'
this was not what i had in mind, nyah.
but it is what you would like me to do. so tell me to do it..
go and insinuate yourself back into sean's life.
I would like a little more conviction..
so would i.  but it is not mine to give.
you have either got it or you don't.  let your conscience be your guide?
something like that.
but i do not have a conscience.  I am a bloody thief.
you can be a thief and have a conscience.
no.  you can be a thief and have a conscience:  not me.  why did you have to tell me about this!  what do i have to do to get away from this guy?  when you are with him, he messes about with your head every waking moment..even now I will be at some out-of- the-way-place, a tin of caviar and a bottle of crystal shows up at the table, with two glass, god knows how he finds out at any given moment where i am in the world but he does.  and it looks like he is done it again.  you know his definition of a  true paranoid?
i don't.
someone in possession of all the facts.  are you telling me i have to do this?
generally, i do not favor coercing someone. not when there is a chance my life could end up in their hands.
and that is the only reason?
can you think of a better one?
not me.  i was just hoping you might..or that..somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical.
look, would it make you feel better if i did not want you to do this?
much.
then feel better!..
sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of 'yoo-hoo-i'm- not-nad' message.  not after the way we broke up.
what would not make him suspicious?
probably that i needed him in some urgent way..destitute - in serious trouble..the kind i could not possible sort out myself..
look, i can not run your arrest in cnn, but i guarantee he is monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world, for what they might be saying about him, if nothing else - he is got the ability and, we assume, the desire to get you out of there.
this does not seem to be accomplishing much.
well, i mean it is not a total loss.  it is keeping a very capable thief off the street..
very funny..maybe he has heard and does not want to know.  maybe he is lost interest.
before you are.
how can you possibly?  I have got to get right on the plane.  I am leaving now.
you do not trust me.
oh, i do.  but as we know I am a very poor judge of character.
he is got you on qantas flight 2735.  it is going to be delayed.
yes?
you will be fine.  I am going to lose you.
ethan, you take care of yourself, I will take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I am going to bail - and without giving two week notice.
well, forewarned is forearmed.  and while we are at it, be especially sensitive to any sudden change in ambrose's plans, especially any involving you..
it is the transponder.
put in the coordinates and let's get a visual.  the visuals are not coming up.
the satellite does not work as fast as i do.
damn.  just when it was about to get interesting.
it is okay.  she scrambled the transmission.  luther, continue feeding the gps her position.
it is, billy.
then we got'em!
not much luggage.
i left in a bit of a hurry.  I am terribly grateful, sean.
how grateful?
well that depends.
on what.
how hard you had to work to get me out of there..how in the world did you ever find me?
how i usually find you, nyah.
how do you that.
magic...
ahh..
what you got there, mate?
a myth..just a myth...shouldn't you be checking out their countersurveillance?
well you know his blokes'll place the oscor in his annex, where else if you are pinpointing transmitters, video signals, covert chip cameras, anything radiating, oscillating..
..or hard wired..
- or hard wired, right.  first line of perimeter defence'll run from the back of the dock to the front of the house. whatever moves burps or bleep is going to be picked up to a height of twenty feet. basically impenetrable, I would say.
well do you disagree with that?
not at all.  but how about going into town and confirming your intuitions on site?
oh well, if that is how you feel about it.
your room.
mmmm.
and my room?
you are not interested in seeing how it looks.
oh, i am.  later..
nekhorvich specialized in recombining dna molecules.  in the myth, bellerophon killed chimera, a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world.  i think nekhorvich has created a monster virus in chimera and apparently the means to kill it in bellerophon.
that simple, huh?
why not?
i said you are beautiful, nyah.
only because..it's spring..chalk it up  - to spring fever.
will not do, love.  it is not spring.  it is nearly autumn..you're in oz.  everything's upside down and backwards here.
maybe that is it, then.  everything's upside down and backwards...
luther..get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on bruny island last month, including photos of the victims.
right.  i guess there are not many flu epidemics in the middle of summer.
not everything.  why do you think she is really here?
from her point of view or mine?
was not exactly gagging for it when she left you six months ago..the question is, do you trust her?
one considers her timing, of course - getting nicked within a week of the plane going down.  suggestive, even borderline suspicious, but hardly conclusive.
well, you have thorough about it, at any rate.
you are not scrutinizing any casual shrug for some hair-splitting nuance, are you?
sean, please..
you won.
i suppose i did.
what made you pick <i>that</i> nag?  she would never won a bloody thing.
'thief in the night?'
say no more.  I am off to grab a drink. still favor bellinis?
how is it going?  everything okay?
just like old times.
just like old times?
just about..
we know him.  he is over your left shoulder, looking right at you as you go on..
- michael, his driver's an aussie, new to me.  then there is the blokes in the annex at the back of the house.
have you met them?
annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house, michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door.
I have no doubt.
ambrose is meeting some bloke in the bar. big bloke, ginger hair. they are into something.
I will be damned.  it is mccloy, the biocyte ceo.
nekhorvich's boss?
yep.
ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them -- thirty- seven million on the london times.  what is that about?
bids from possible chimera buyers -- to prove that as of the date on the newspaper those bids are back up by earnest money --
ambrose just pulled the memory card out of the digital camera and put it into an envelope, put it in his inner left jacket pocket...
left jacket pocket?
roger that.
confirm.  left jacket pocket.
left jacket pocket confirmed.
nyah, ambrose is heading back.  there is an enveloped inside --
-- his left jacket pocket.
affirmative.
where do i meet you?
betting table twelve off the paddock. nyah, are you up to this?
I will muddle through.
see anything you like?
yeah.  naturally vain -- but they are about to close the betting table and i have not a sou..
nyah!
billy, make sure nyah's not followed.
to win?
what else?
i managed.
you noticed.  what are you going to do? spank me?
I am booted up.  go, ethan.
he is heading down the stairs, now..
i want <i>you out of there.</i>
why?  what is happened. what did you see?
nyah, you have done more than enough.  even the best of snake charmers get bit.
ethan, tell me -
i want you out of australia!  ..i do not know how much more plainly i can put it.
how do you suggest i go about it?
he is touched your heart.  you are overwhelmed.  you need to think it over. you will meet him somewhere in a month.  if you are not out in 48 hours I am coming in and getting you out.  give me the ear piece.
you picked another winner!
well, that is good, isn't?
sean, there is something I have been meaning to talk to you about... is not going to be easy for me to say.
then do not say it.
i do not know what to do about you, sean. I am more than a bit muddled.  i need time.
to do what?
sort it all out.
and you are going to have time.  there is been a change of plans.
a change of plans?
yes.  we will not be able to have dinner tonight.  something is come up.  i hope you do not mind.
oh, no, not at all.  maybe just a bit.
ulrich will be about.  he will look after you.
lovely.
i thought you were going to dinner.
hugh, take care of the nekhorvich memory card.
where is it?
in the envelope in my pocket.  my right.. jacket..pocket..
ambrose obviously got these from nekhorvich on the plane.
what manic invents  disease like that in the first place?  why would he do it?
i do not know, but nekhorvich was not a manic.  get me a twenty on nyah.
she must still be on the property.
i told her to get outta there.
a visit from an old friend.
what is happening here?  you are dead!
fatigued, certainly.  but dead is a little extreme.  on the other hand, when me dear gradski had your pulse and blood pressure he has less than ten hours to live.
it was in the bloody papers, on the telly..what's this about gradski?
you are infected with <i>chimera,</i> my friend.
easy, easy, easy, shhh!
oh ethan!..
are you okay?
i am now.  get me out of here.  just get me out of here.
it is going to be okay.
you have bellerophon.
do i?
you took it!  all of it!  and what if i need it?
'if?'  my, my, my...the five hundred people on bruny island that you deliberately infected with <i>chimera</i> needed it as well.
oh, please!  how was i to know they had to be treated with bellerophon within twenty hours?
by asking me.
you still do not get it, do you?  you want to make an omelet, you break a few eggs - <i>i needed to know just how bad the disease was</i> - in the real world, not the lab.  and you never know til you try.  you thought you were genetically splicing together strains of influenza to create a cure for all influenzas.  but i saw you creating a disease so terrible in <i>chimera</i> that the cure would be priceless.
you wanted the disease in order to peddle the cure.
well, the thought had occurred to me.  i needed chimera in order to peddle bellerophon.  for hero to be appreciated, you need a monster. now that is not so difficult to understand, is it?  look, time was a shot of penicillin could knock off every bloody bug in the zoo!  not anymore!..have you any idea the r&d money it takes to float one little pissy boutique antibiotic that is barely effective against one strain of one bacterium?  if i could not makes money killing the microscopic little shits that are out there, you would help me put one out there i can make on!..there it is.  I have confessed.  i, john c. mccloy, am in business to make money.  lilly's making billions feeding prozac to depressed dogs.  pfizer does not even know where to put the money they are making on viagra, and let me tell you that shit did not do a thing for me even at twice the recommended dose, jesus, who do i have to screw to get a a break!..now get me out of here, get me treated and let's go back to work!..
you know, i think it is a little late for that.  do give my regards to gradski if you see him.
ethan, you know what frightens me most when I am with him?..the thought of never seeing you..how are we getting out of here?
nyah, it is very important not do anything to alarm ambrose..
what?  you told me to get out of here.  i thought you were here to collect me.  i was so relieved.
no time to explain.  you have done well, and we are so close.  so close.  it is critical that you do whatever ambrose asks.  do not worry - it will be over soon.. that is a promise.. come on, now off you go!
so ambrose has bellerophon and mccloy's got chimera.
there guys are walking around with different halves of the same dollar bill?
ambrose got bellerophon from nekhorvich on the plane, but he did not get the chimera virus.
yeah.  why else would he come back to australia?  if he had them both, he could sell them anywhere.
i kill chimera at biocyte and he is sitting on a cure without a disease.
you have got the voice print, I will get us in..
sorry, that it a biocyte facility, their storage structure..
nyah still on the property?
let's start from the inside out.
all storage and production of chimera is done here, in this lab on the forty-second floor, the heart of the building.
now how to get in there.
no garage entrance.  lobby's protected by five guards on rotating patrol.
if you look at hunt's operational history, he invariably favors misdirection and deception. for a start he will not go into biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security.
not going in from the ground.  show me the atrium.
thirty-second opening in the roof and a 250-foot drop.
I am not waiting 48 hours.  when we are done at biocyte, if she is not out of ambrose's, I am going in and getting her out.
package away in five..four..three.. two..one...
I am not ready!
luther, I am looking at security.
oh. uh. commencing diversion.  alarm in cosmetics.
billy.  i think we got a problem.  nyah's on the wing.  up early.  billy, do you copy?
exactly where is she?
..in the building...
say again. sounds like you are saying 'she's in the building.'
i am. she is.
she is in the elevator heading toward ethan.
how much longer before you can reach him?
five and a half minutes.  he is breached the hot zone..
how're we doin', then?
he should have have killed the virus in the incubation area..nyah's exited the elevator on the same level as the lab.
what can we do' mate?
hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot gets to the red one.
fight a bit of a cold..
and you are happy about that?
beats fighting the flu, I am here to tell you.
you know, that was the hardest part of having to portray you.  grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes.
i would have thought the hardest part was exercising restraint.  curbing that pressing need of your to get your gun off.  you were in such a hurry to knock off that 747, you never figured out where the virus really was.
i knew where it was.
oh.  then you knew the only way could smuggle the live virus to the cdc scientists in atlanta was by injecting himself and using his own bloodstream as a petri dish, doing it inside of twenty hours so he could take the anti-virus and still have it be effective.  you knew that while you were knocking him off and destroying the very thing you came for.
there it is, guys, the last of it.
yep.  you have provided us with a golden opportunity to have both the bug and the bug killer.
what was the top bid?
why, you going to make me a better offer?
than thirty-seven million pounds?  not really.
somebody is been slipping you our mail. come on out here, you bad girl.
she does not belong here, sean.  let her go.
she would not  be here if it was not for you, hunt.  from this moment you are responsible for what happens to her, and if you are looking out for her well-being, i suggest you advise her to pick up the gun and bring it to me.  ball's in your court, hunt.  what have you got to say? nyah's waiting for your answer.
oh, hunt, please! one can not hold nyah responsible for her actions..
in other words, you are calling her a flake.
what did you think you were doing!
i was not thinking!  just..trying to keep you from getting hurt, that is all.
- you who do not have a conscience.
i guess i lied..you can not get both of us out of here, can you?
no.
then you will have to kill me before it is too late.  before i start killing people.
no.
I am infected with chimera.  you know you do not have a choice.  just do it now.
not yet.  we did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage.
we could lock down passport control and all ports of authority, but that will not stop ambrose, and beyond him, we do not know who else we are looking for -- all terrorist bank accounts of which we are aware are stable.  no deposits, no withdrawals.  therefore no suspects.
we think we have got our finger on the buyer.
do you?  even assuming you are able to prevent ambrose selling chimera, you have now got an additional problem.  you destroyed all of chimera at biocyte.  if ambrose is going to sell chimera now, he will have to do it by taking a pint or so of miss hall's blood to market.
yes, i believe that is right.
but that leaves another seven or eight pints of chimera.
you mean that leaves miss hall.
yes, i believe that is right.  now my understanding is that 20 hours after exposure, the victim becomes infectious. highly infectious.
- good.  then if you manage to get hold of ambrose, and obtain what he is got, you have got -  - 8 hours 57 minutes and twenty-three seconds to destroy the largest remaining source of chimera on earth.
she sacrificed herself..
brave girl.  if you can get hold of bellerophon with the time limit, you may spare her the ultimate sacrifice.  but in either case you have got less than nine hours to kill her or cure her.  after that it is out of our hands and a matter of worldwide material law.  and hunt.  however you obtain it, we want you to preserve a sample of chimera.  bring it back alive.
something else?
are not you even curious?  about why she did it?
no.  i can not afford to be curious.  and neither can you, hunt..
feel like pleading for your life?
not as much as you feel like hearing it.
god damn it, nyah!  why did you do it?  why did you save that bastard?
if it will make you feel any better i will not do it again.
if it will make you feel any better, you are going to take a lot of aussies with you and make me a lot of money.
what are you talking about?
in just a few hours you can be assured of going down in history as the typhoid mary of oz.  g'day.
ethan, i keep telling you there is not a chance of locating nyah til i access the satellite and there is not a chance of doing that til i get this thing booted up and running!  how much time does she have left?
ninety-seven minutes, twenty-seven seconds.
before we kill her or cure her..
right.
wrong.  all we have got to worry about is ambrose.  nyah will take care of nyah.
what are you talking about?
unless we dose her with bellerophon on the next ninety-seven minutes, nyah will kill herself.  so, first things, first. swanbeck said there is no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts.
not exactly.  wallis?
more like two-two point two million.
in any case we do not want your cash.
bellerophen?  no time at all once I have got it.
good.  biocyte stock is just a week or two away from going through the roof.
what are you talking about?
an outbreak of <i>chimera.</i>
where?
in downtown sydney for a start.
-- now here's the way it is going to work..wallis, the shares outstanding are..
ninety-three point four million.
which means, mr. mccloy, we have to get our hands on four hundred and eighty thousand options.  we will borrow your thirty million to buy those options.  your stock's never sold above thirty-one dollars a share.  we will agree to buy at fifty.
outrageous.  i will not let you take control of my company.
sit down.  you will be a billionaire.  better than being broke.  I have got terrorists and other pharmaceutical companies standing in line.  ball's in your court, mr. mccloy.
we are due to take off.
not for seven more minutes.
afraid he is got no choice.  i believe i broke his jaw.
hugh, I am impressed..
luther, say again.
she is on the north head bluff - approaching the cliffs.  one klick away.
copy.  she is only got twenty-eight minutes left.  track ahead and pick her up.
range is two kay.
i hope there is a place to land.
there she is.  i got visual.
we are down to seven minutes 23 seconds..
sorry, ethan.  i do not quite know where to begin.  any suggestions?
you would like me to conduct my own debriefing.
why not?  you have done just about everything else on this operation.
I would thank you -- but I am not sure that was a compliment.
of course it was.  anyone whose operations requires the level of disinformation that yours do, is bound to get a little flak here and there.  you try flogging the stories on cnn I have had to come up with about what is been going on around here the last few days.  at any rate, it is been most instructive -- what they will swallow, or what they will broadcast with a straight face.  miss hall's blood, it appears, has absolutely no elements of the chimera virus.  not even antibodies.
yes, i gathered as much.
and the only other remaining sample was in the canister you recover from ambrose.
yes.
and that appears to have been destroyed. it also contained the anti-virus, bellerophon.
well, bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against chimera.
but you were under specific instructions to bring back a living sample of the chimera virus.  I would be very interested to know how, after you would managed its recovery intact, it subsequently got destroyed.
by fire.  that is the best way, really.
no, i don't.  but in this case -
in this case, it was not a bad idea.  in face, it was a pretty damn good idea. just do not make a habit of it.  and, as for ms. hall, in light of her efforts, her criminal records will certainly be expunged.  I am assuming you approve.
i do.
where is she now, by the way?  do you know?
i don't.  no exactly.
well, hunt, what are your plans?
not sure.  some sort of vacation.  I will let you know where I am going.
oh, you do not have to do that. would not be a vacation if you did.
so what did he say?
good job.  and thanks.
that is it?  that is it? that is it?
and the check's in the mall.
right.  just remember, mates.  billy baird's the name.  anything you need to get, move or watch, I am your man.
no.  should i?
no.  you just looked as if you did.
no...
