i knew it! i knew a night's rest was not possible in this house!  hubert!
wha--? yes, sweetheart-- wha--?
that infernal phone!
yes, yes--phone, phone--  a--an outrage, pet--an outrage--i'll look into this--  hello--joe!--what!--no! not really! terrible!
what is it?
yes, joe, yes--right away.
what is it?
sam foley--dead!
great saints!
of all the times! of all the times! two months to the end of his term-- and foley has to go and die on us--
whom are you calling--in the dead of night?
taylor, my dear.
can not that wait, hubert?
no, no--believe me, pet--this is *most* urgent--  hello, hello. is taylor there?-- governor hopper. quickly, please--
this is not a home, it is the crossroads of the world!
now, now, emma, dear--you must not forget we have been chosen by the people of this commonwealth to--
save that for the laying of cornerstones, hubert!  oh, that morning you looked in the mirror and saw a statesman!
now, pet--  jim!
yes, yes--tell them I will see them immediately--immediately!  i can not hold them off! they want something to say about this appointment. ten to one they have got a man.
relax, happy. jim said to wait.
i *can't* wait, mcgann! you go into that room and tell jim taylor and joe paine that i give them *one more minute*--
*you* tell jim taylor.
washington! always discussing the problems of washington. nobody ever thinks of the state--and my problems!  i *will* tell jim taylor. it is high *time* i told him a thing or two!
look here, jim--if you and joe are going to gab about this appointment *any* longer, I am going ahead and see those committees!
you will see those committees when we are finished!
yes, jim.
that happy hopper is tougher to handle than a prima-donna.
--in other words, jim--with this willet creek dam on the fire--the man who goes to the senate now in sam foley's place can not ask any questions or talk out of turn. we must be absolutely sure of him.
that is why i say miller--horace miller. he jumped through hoops for the machine before we moved him up to the bench. he will take orders.
jim--suppose we did not try to go through with this willet creek dam-- suppose we postpone it until the next session of congress--or drop it altogether--
that would be a crime--after all this work--getting it buried in this deficiency bill as nice as you please-- approved--all ready to roll--
how much does the willet dam mean to you, jim?
joe--i've got a lot of people to take care of in this state.
i know, but is it worth the risk of a scandal now that a new man is going to the senate?
joe--what's the matter with you-- where you are concerned, i would not take the slightest risk--'specially now after the great reputation you have made in the senate. why, look at this campaign I have started for you in all my papers. you are the logical man from the west on the national ticket--at the convention, anything can happen--
joe, that is coming a long way in twenty years since i met you practising law down there in main street.
jim--if what you say about the future is remotely possible--why not do as i say--drop things like this dam?
we can not drop it now, joe. we bought the land around this dam and we are holding it in dummy names. if we drop it or delay it--we are going to bring about investigations, and investigations will show that we own that land and are trying to sell it to the state under phoney names. no, joe, in my judgment the only thing to do is push this dam through--and get it over with.
well, then appoint miller--if you are sure he will take orders.
do not worry about horace--he'll take orders. come on--
one minute! just one minute!
happy, we have got the man. horace miller!
horace mill--!
terrific! a born stooge! horace'll perform like a trained seal.
jim--if i fling a party man like horace in the face of those angry committees--
happy, for reasons there is not time to go into--it's got to be miller! we have given you the man. now write the ticket.  come on, joe. come on, chick.
now, wait fellows--great heavens. I have got to see those angry committees first--feel them out a little--work for harmony--harmony.
they put up *their* candidate? who?
henry hill.
*henry hill?* that crackpot? that long-haired--! why, you should have killed that so fast--!
i--i couldn't, jim. those men were--
we can not help *what* they were! forget 'em!
jim, that bunch is out for blood. if i throw horace in their teeth now--
i said forget 'em! horace miller goes to the senate--and that settles it!
i *won't* send horace miller!
*you won't?*
i *won't* let you stand there callously and perhaps wreck my whole political future!
*your* political future! i bought it for you and made you a present. and i can grab it back so fast it will make your head spin. you got a nerve to stand there and worry about just *your future* when we are in this spot!  the man is--*miller*.
dinner, hubert.
I will bear that in mind... what? oh. dinner. pet--my stomach could not hold a bird seed.
we are waiting, hubert.
really, my dear--i do not feel like a thing.
nonsense.
what is the matter, dad? is it getting you down?
is *what* getting me down?
gee, i would not appoint an old twerp like horace miller--taylor or no taylor!
taylor! may i ask what *taylor* has to do with it?
well, he is still running the show, am not he, dad?
emma! i will not have conversations of this sort carried on by the children at dinner!
nonsense. why do not you listen to your children for a change? you might actually learn something?
for instance, how to run the affairs of government? no doubt my children could make this appointment *for* me-- with the greatest ease!
that is easy. jefferson smith.
i beg your pardon?
gosh, pop--head of the boy rangers!
oh, a *boy*!
i did. what about it?
well, jeff put that out himself.
himself!
i do *not* want a senator. and i do *not* want any more of this nonsense! emma!
why, i think it is very sweet of the children--
he is the greatest *american* we got, too, dad. can tell what george washington said--by heart. an' "boy stuff's" got the swellest stuff in it.
what stuff?
"boy stuff." that is the name of jeff's magazine. he prints it.  look--here's one--oh, it is great-- *everybody* reads it--all the kids in the state--a million of 'em. look, pop--let me read you a--
peter, I am in no mood to hear childish prattle!
no, *sir*! you could not do better, dad.
than what?
jeff for senator.
emma! will you *please*--?
otis!
that settles it! i will not be attacked and belittled by my own children in my own home! my nerves are strained to the breaking point!
emma! I am a man at the end of his rope.
no wonder--without your dinner.
emma, which is it--horace miller or henry hill?
well, your children are very bright-- and *they* say jefferson smith.
i *thought* i heard... yes?
uh--jefferson smith's residence?
yes. come in.
is--uh--jefferson smith at home?
certainly. step right in.
good evening, sir. i was just making some--  governor hopper!
well--i'll go to halifax!
now--now--please--that's quite all right. relax, boys--
this--this is a great honor, sir. i-- i--
not at all. I have come to pay you a personal and official--and i might say--a *tardy* tribute, mr. smith, for your recent heroic conduct.
oh, now, I am afraid that is been exaggerated some--
no. no. a signal service to the state. yes, indeed. and not only that but-- uh--i've heard of your excellent work in leading and guiding our youth--
well--that's not work, sir--that's fun.
no doubt. no doubt. and this fine little paper--"boy stuff"--with, i dare say, an *enormous* circulation in the state.
well--it started with a little mimeograph sheet--and it is just grown out of all sense and reason--
excellent! excellent! my boy, I am convinced our state has a great debt of gratitude to you--
oh, now--
jefferson--
yes, ma?
excuse me for interrupting, governor, but--  --that plaster's going to harden any second, son.
gosh! you see sir--i was fixing some plaster for a cast on amos' leg-- he is always chewing 'em off. I will only be a minute--if you will excuse me, sir--
maybe you would like to come along and watch, governor? jefferson's done a wonderful job with that leg.
why, of course.
jerry! blackie! queenie! let's have it quiet, fellows!
now, now, now!  it is all right, governor.
a pet shop?
well, it sort of got to be--from jeff just pullin' splinters and things--
now, now, now--that is not going to get you any place. get a firm grip, ma!
satan's in this little fella tonight!
sorry about this, governor. but it will not take a minute. you were saying something in the other room, sir--
well--yes--i was saying--the state should reward you--
aw--
--and it is in my power to confer a very signal honor upon you. in my official capacity, therefore, i--
ma! hold him!
i just can't, son--not the head and tail both!
uh--could--could i help--?
thanks, governor--*yes*! do you mind? his head--ma'll take the tail.
the--head?
just get one hand against each ear there--keep his face straight up.
what were you saying, governor? sorry.
i said, sir--in my official capacity-- as an honorary gesture--i appoint you to the united states senate!
now, amos, now--  what?
what?
--a *boy ranger* a squirrel chaser-- to the united states senate!
jim--the answer to a prayer--manna from heaven--the man *we want*--and the votes *we need*--
he is batty!
listen--the simpleton of all time--a big-eyed patriot--knows washington and lincoln by heart--stood at attention in the governor's presence-- collects stray boys and cats--
what!
joe--*you* know what I am talking about. the perfect man. never in politics in his life. would not find out what it is all about in two *years*, lets alone two months. but the important thing--and this was the genius of the stroke--*it means votes*!
oh--oh.
he is the hero of fifty thousand boys and a hundred thousand parents. look at these congratulations pouring in! i tell you, gentlemen, by this one statesman-like act, i have--
but you went ahead and made this appointment without asking me--
jim--when the lightning hit, i--i just--
*but you never asked me*!
oh--jim!
wait a minute, boys. happy may have hit on something tremendous here. rather than let miller or anyone else in at this stage, we simply put blinders on this simple son of nature-- and turn him loose on monuments. he is completely out of the way in washington, and as happy says, you make political capital out of it at home.
joe--do you mean to say--do you think you can actually *handle* this--this whatever-you-call-it in washington?
a young patriot?--who recites jefferson and lincoln?--turned loose in our nation's capital? i think i can.
chick--turn the ballyhoo boys loose on this right away. greatest appointment ever made. a banquet-- declare a holiday.
well, it is not much, but if you insist, here's this week's.
"boy stuff." why, printer's ink runs in your veins, jeff. you are just like your father.
thank you, sir.
even to the hat. same old dreamer, too. one look at you and i can see him, back of his old roll top desk, hat and all, getting out his paper. always kept his hat on his head so as to be ready to do battle. clayton smith, editor and publisher, and champion of lost causes.
yeah, dad always used to say the only causes worth fighting for were lost causes.
you do not have to tell me jeff. we were a team, the two of us, a struggling editor and a struggling lawyer. the twin champions of lost causes, they used to call us.
ma's told me about it a thousand times.
his last fight was his best, jeff. he and his little four-page paper against that mining syndicate and all to defend the right of one small miner who stuck to his claim. you know, they tried everything, bribery, intimidation, then--well--
yes, ma found him slumped over his desk that morning...
shot in the back. i was there. i can see him at that old roll top desk, still with his hat on... still with his hat on...
i know. i suppose, mr. paine, when a fellow bucks up against a big organization like that, one man by himself can not get very far, can he?
no.
washington!
yeah, for the fifth time, senator-- washington.
my pigeons--i better see about my pigeons.
the porter's got them. they are coming.
just a minute, i better make sure.
boy! my head's like a balloon--for two whole days. i never knew there was so much american history.
you can not find it in racing forms, chick.
fine thing jim taylor wished on me-- show him the monuments--i need this job like i need ten pounds.
here they are--i got them. they are all right.
well, that ends that crisis. this way, senator.
here, here, susan--this is jeff smith-- our new senator.
i do not care to meet anybody until i get paid--come on--come on. one dollar each, please, for the milk fund.
here, jeff, I will advance it for you.-- fine introduction to the nation's capital!
here, I will take a dozen of those things. miss paine.
just for the fun of it.--you see the one that makes it back home in the fastest time, i am going to enter in the nationals.
wonderful!
h'ya, carl--h'ya, bill!
jeff--meet mr. cook and mr. griffith-- members of our state headquarters here.
how nice.
all right, we will take jeff with us--
I am afraid we will not have room in the car, father. senator smith can follow with mr. mcgann and the pigeons.
sure.
well, we *must* see a lot of you, senator. come, father.
chick--
I have got 'im, joe. be right along.
are you ready for him, bill?
all set. foley's rooms in the senate office building--nice, big clean desk--lot of senator stationery to write his little boys on--and foley's secretary, saunders, to make it look like the real thing--
good. are the newspaper men at the hotel?
yup--sweeney, flood, farrell--waiting for you--
fine. the first thing to do is-- present mr. smith to the press--in the *right* way. hurry him along, bill.
how do you feel, champ?
all right, why?
your name's spreading like wild-fire out here--you are the winterbook favorite to get on the national ticket.
oh! go away.
all right, senator--let's get these bags and the livestock together--
look! there it is!
what? who?
yes, sir--big as life. been there some time now.
yes, sir.  all right, boys--let's go.
what is he bringing pigeons for?
what for? why, suppose there is a storm--all lines are down--how you going to get a message to ma?
positively not in the station! gone!
I will brain that guy! well--call paine-- call saunders--
sure. sure. I will hang a light in the steeple. one if by land--two if by sea!... okay!  diz--you will not believe it. daniel boone's *lost*!
no!
how do you *like* this! you do not suppose that ranger met up with some kids--and took 'em for a hike!
that--or he is out blazing trails. he will show up.
sure--sure. he must have a compass with him.
and while you are at it, get me a bed!
let's send out a pigeon!
blow a bugle!
since the time of adams--not washington.
how is that, buddy?
i said--i mean--washington did not live to see it finished. congress did not move here from philadelphia till eighteen hundred.
oh--you're *sure* of that now?
yes. washington laid the cornerstone though--wearing an apron for the ceremony that was embroidered by madame lafayette--
yes, *sir*.  let's *go* henry.
getting on to dinner, is not it, pal?
i give that trail blazer five more minutes to show up--  --*five more minutes*!
well--who d'you take this time--paine, bill, carl--or mcgann?
hey--you're into me for a buck already. i say--mcgann. shoot the whole dollar.
okay. for the dollar, i give you mcgann *and* bill and carl. i got paine.  hello... oh, yes.
no, not yet, senator paine--not hide nor hair of the man. you mean to say the boys haven't--?
eight to five little boy blue is plastered.
well, why do not they try the police-- get some blood hounds--or indian guides--
tell me why!
well, because you are doing all right at the minute.
when foley died, why did not i clear out? how many times, did you hear me say i was fed up on politics and--? but *no*--i let 'em talk me into staying. secretary to a leader of little squirts. why? because i need the job and a new suit of clothes.
would you settle for a husband?
what is this, diz?
that old standing offer from diz moore--poet of washington correspondents.
huh?
you know--mrs. diz moore.
oh--that again. yeah.
i would cherish you--and stay sober.
diz, you are a swell playmate--but--. maybe if i saw you once with your hair combed, or something--or--no, no--i do not think even that would do it--
well, if you are sure it wouldn't--no use combing my hair for nothing.
no--don't do it. I am sure. the truth is, diz--there's no man I have seen yet or--must be something wrong with me. I have been feeling low for weeks.
you got worms.
what! who?
you know--little worms--ambition.
yeah. should have seen me seven years ago--when i came to this town. *now* what am i?--chambermaid to the pied piper of jackson city; *honorary* appointment! scratch this thing an you will find they wanted a dope here for two months.
what is it?
office of--senator smith?
*no*!
the man downstairs said number--
no!
what is your name?
j-jefferson smith.
is--is something the matter?
oh, no--no!  my dear *senator*--it may be customary out on the prairie to take french leave of people and not be heard of again for five hours--
gee--i'm sorry about that, miss--you *are* miss saunders, are not you?
yes, I am saunders--and this is mr. moore--a member of the press. meet the *senator*, mr. moore.
pleased to meet you, sir.
gee, I am sorry. you see, it was not until i was fairly well along in the bus that i realized--
did you say--bus?
one of those sightseers--you know. you see, i--gosh, I have never been called absent-minded or... but there it was all of a sudden--looking right at me through one of the station doors--
there *what* was?
the dome--the capitol dome--
--big as life--sparkling away there under the sun. i--i started walking toward it--and there was a bus outside-- and--well--i--i just naturally got aboard--
most natural thing in the world!
i do not believe I have been so thrilled in my--oh, and that lincoln memorial! gee! there he is--mr. lincoln--looking right at you as you come up the steps-- sitting there like he was waiting for someone to come along--
well--he's got nothing on me.
now, if you are ready, senator, we can start for the hotel. I will *see* that you get there.
yes--i think maybe you would better.
whose statue is that?
i would not know in the *day time*.
the capitol dome! lighted up!
you--uh--you better relax, senator. you will be plumb wore out.
tell me, miss saunders--what time does the senate--uh--what do they call it?
convene?
convene--that's it--yes. i got to pick up some of those parliamentary words. i imagine a fellow can get pretty lost in the senate without 'em--
with or without 'em.  twelve--noon. the senate convenes at twelve o'clock.
gosh--that'll be something! you know what i better do in the morning?
no. what had you better--?
go out to mount vernon. it would be a sort of fine thing to do--see washington's home just before walking into the senate for the first time-- do not you think?
oh--a wonderful thing--yes. get you right in the mood--yes--yes.
no, gee--i could not stay here--
you *couldn't*?
i mean--gosh--i would not be comfortable in a--i--i have not got clothes and things like that--and--i could not keep pigeons *there*--no--i-- i just--just would not be--
eleven b street, northeast. take his bags and your own right over--and get yourself a room in the same place--
listen, joe--at least--after a day like this--i got one good bust coming before i start showing him monuments--
I am still asking myself--what is he-- animal, vegetable, or mineral? a senator! a united states senator! i thought I would seen everything but-- why, he does not know what time it is, diz! when i think of myself sitting around--playing straight for all that phoney, patriotic chatter-- *me*, carrying bibs for an infant with little flags in his fists--no, i can not take it, diz--i'm through--i quit!
sure--sure--wait a minute now--simmer down--
who? who? your boss! a nut, huh? a nut! wow! there is a *story* in this guy--! i smelled it!
go away, nosey.
saunders--it's meat and drink--lemme at 'im! five minutes--! I will make it right with you!
will you go chase an ambulance!
whadaya mean--*right*?
what do i *mean*, huh? uh--*i'll* tell ya--world's series--a pass! in a month it is worth fifteen bucks!
well, well!
look, nosey--your pals would like to get in on this, would not they?
hey--i wanna *scoop*!
well, that is out. either it is *lots* of reporters and *lots* of tickets or--. now will you go and call 'em before i change my mind about the whole thing!
okay. see you here.
kid--wait--what do you think you are going to do?
get my *whole* fall outfit--and quit this job in style!
now, you have got more sense than to put nosey onto this guy--!
wait--wait. let's see--watchdog mcgann-- he is bound to move right in--get him out of the way first--  pardon me, friend--i've got some telephoning to do--!
tell us about yourself, senator! hear you got a boy's club back home! any ideas? going to make things hum in the senate, huh?
hold on, fellows--i'm not used to more then one question at a time--
one moment, friends, let's give the senator a break.  now, where did you say you studied law?
well--i have not needed much law so far--what I would like to get first is a little common sense--
swell!
ax?
a pet idea--you know--pension bill-- save the buffalo--you've got *one* notion you think would be good for this country, have not you?
well--i have got *one* idea--
ah! that is more like it! what?
well--for a couple of years now--i-- I have thought it would be a wonderful thing to have a national boys' camp out in our state--
a camp! well!
you see--if we could take the poor kids off the streets--out of cities-- a few months in the summer--learn something about nature and american ideals--
marvelous! and what would this camp set the government back?
oh--nothing--nothing. my idea is-- for the government to lend us the money--and the boys'll pay it back-- sending in a penny or a nickel--no more than a dime--no, gosh--the government's got enough on its hands without--
great!  the government's putting dough in too many places *now*!
yeah! how about it? you are a nature lover. do you handle any of that sign language?
well--i can *manage*--
his first 'whiff'!
such pretty knees for a big boy!
do i actually *see* this--?
listen, father! "young lochinvar smitten with susan paine"!
you want to see me, senator?
yes. good morning, saunders.  have you--uh--any idea how this happened?
the ranger's notices? no idea at all.
no?
no--i'm sorry. i merely saw him home. I am not supposed to tuck him in and give him his bottle. that is mcgann's job.
by the way, mr. mcgann just phoned-- in a high fever. smith's gone again. have you any idea where?
yes. he went to mount vernon to give himself a patriotic address.
well--that's very fine.  saunders, some person in your office says you have quit--
that is right.
oh, now--that will not do--
look, senator--i was not given a brain just to tell a boy ranger what time it is. what do you need me for? get somebody else--get a registered nurse--
you are the best nurse i can think of--
nice *compliment*!
i meant it for one. i meant--sam foley could not get along without you-- and neither can i at the moment--
no?
you see--governor hopper made an appointment in this case that--well, jeff is not exactly fitted to the work, let's say. he is here to see monuments--and pass the time. that is important to--to my work--and everybody concerned. so, someone who can be trusted has to occupy him and keep him out of trouble--
and I am an old hand at following instructions--
you are more than that. I have had example of the fact that wild horses could not pull confidential matter in these two offices out of you. that is why i tell you what i do--about smith and this situation. so, you see--
yeah--i see I am right where I have been for seven years--
you deserve a lot better. and I will tell you what we will do. stay and play nurse, as you say--and if certain things happen I am taking everybody up with me, and you will get one of the biggest jobs in washington.
yeah?  and what else?
what do you mean?
well, when i first came to washington, my eyes were big, blue question marks-- now they are big, green dollar marks--
i see. all right. you finish this job properly--and you get a handsome bonus besides--
here you are, senator. not a bad desk, either. daniel webster used to use it.
daniel webster? sat here? say--that man was a great orator.
give you something to shoot at, senator--if you figure on doing any talking.
not me, sonny. I am just going to sit around and listen.  what is this?
calendar for the day. you will find the senate manual in the drawer. anything else you want, just snap for a page.
where is the majority leader?
the majority leader? right over there. and that is [           ] the minority leader. they are both pretty good in the clinches.
uh-huh. and where is the press galery?
right up there over the vice- president's chair--the four in the front row represent the four big news services. you have met the press bunch, have not you?
oh, yes--they're fine people--regular people.
look out for those fellows--they tell the truth about you--sometimes. that corner over there is reserved for guides and sightseers who come in for five minutes to rest their feet. that section over there is reserved for senator's friends. the front row--the empty one--is for the president and white house guests-- see that old couple over there-- they have attended every session for the last twenty years. over the clock back here is the diplomatic section. they and the page boys are the only real class we have in this place. the rest are mostly people who come here like they go to the zoo--
those busts up there--all around the wall--who are they, sonny?
all the ex-vice-presidents. you can get ten-to-one around here if you think you can remember their names. the vice-president presides over the senate--you know that. it is how he earns his pay. oh--over there, senator-- on the east side of the chair we still have the old snuff boxes with real snuff in them if you like snuff.
thanks very much, sonny--
I will take your hat into the cloak room.
here--let me give you a boy ranger button.
swell. thanks very much.  good luck, senator. keep your left up.
mr. president...
senator paine.
i present the credentials of honorable jefferson smith who has just been appointed senator by the governor of my state.
i do not understand, sir! i do not know what the gentleman--
the senator has no voice in this chamber until the oath of office has been administered!
"i do solemnly swear--that i will support and defend the constitution of the united states--against all enemies, foreign and domestic--that i will bear true faith and allegiance to the same--that i take this obligation freely--without and mental reservation and purpose of evasion-- and that i will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which i am about to enter. so help me god."
"so help me god."
senator, you can talk all you want to, now.
*gentlemen*! gentlemen are supposed to believe in something decent. instead of twisting facts and making a joke of everything--why do not you tell the people the *truth* for a change?
the truth! well, the man wants the truth! "what *is* truth?" asked so-and-so, and turned away!
that is what i said--the *truth*!
whoa! hold it! pipe down! come on, now--that's enough of that.
if you thought as much of being honest-- as you do of being smart--!
i mean, sir--if I am going to stay in the senate--i ought to know what I am doing--at least, i ought to try to study the bills that are coming up--
the *bills*? jeff--let me advise you-- as your father would--politics is a business--sometimes a cruel business. in your time here, you could not even start on those bills. they are put together by legal minds--after a long study. why, after twenty years, i can not understand half of them myself. no, really, jeff--in your own interests--
well, then--i--i do not feel i can stay, sir.
jeff, look--didn't you say something to the papers about wanting to create a national boys' camp? were you in earnest about that?
yes, i was--
well, why not do it? there is a job for you. get a bill started to accomplish it--present it to congress-- it would be a great experience--
senator paine, if i could do just that one thing while I am here, i-- I would feel that i--
what is to stop you? saunders will help you with it--
i will, sir! i will!  i--i do not know how to thank you. i knew, if any man could help me--
nonsense, jeff.
thank you, sir. thank you for your time.
here--where are you running off to?
well, I am sort of anxious to get back to the office--
father--oh.
jefferson dropped in for a minute, susan.
how nice. how do you do, senator?
how--how do you do, miss paine?  i--i apologize for looking like this-- i--i have to be going now--
how are the pigeons?
fine--they're fine.  oh, miss paine, i--i want to apologize-- what the papers said i said about you--that was not true. i--i would never say a thing like that.
did you hear, father? he did not mean it when he said i was beautiful.
oh--you are!
then you *did* say it.
no--i mean--yes--that is--
well, goodbye, sir--and thank you again.  well--it--it was nice seeing you, miss paine--
goodnight, senator--
I am sorry! gee! i hope--
that is all right, my boy--don't bother--
gosh!  well--looks good as new. if there *is* any damage, i'll--
good as new! it is quite all right--
well--goodnight.
goodnight, jeff.
goodnight, miss paine.
well, at the expense of some of the furniture, susan--you've made another conquest.
what! not old honest abe!
and honest abe's ideals. a rare man-- these days.
well! hear anything? any sign of him?
how did you like a punch in the nose?
what! who?
that is what he is been doing since last heard from.
whaddaya mean! what did *i* have to do with it? i do not blame the guy.  wow! twenty-four hours in this town and nothing but dog-fights! and things are not bad enough--last night i have to get a run-around from some wise dame--
my, my--you sho' are pahwerfully upset, mister mcgann--but you' awfully cute.
yeah? well, when i get my hands on a red-headed doll with a southern lingo, i'll--
you should hear our ranger band rattle that off--if you want to *hear* something! good evening, miss saunders. good evening mister mcgann.
h'ya, senator. i--i've sorta been looking for you--
you have?  will you come in a minute, miss saunders.
uh--senator--i thought you and me might go out to dinner together--and grab off a few monuments.
oh, i could not tonight. thanks a lot.
go ahead--punch.
punch?
i had a lot to do with that little press conference last night--
well, then, i--i *thank* you, miss saunders! nothing better could have happened--. yes *sir*, miss saunders, we are going right ahead with it!
we are going right ahead with--*what*?
why, the bill--the bill--to make a national boys' camp...
one moment, senator. do i understand you are going to present a *bill*?
sure! a bill. senator paine and i decided it was the one way in the world i could make myself--
pardon me. senator paine decided this *with* you?
yes. sure. it was his idea. *i* should have been the one to think of it--
my dear senator, have you the faintest idea of what it takes to get a bill passed?
i know--but you--you're going to help.
if i were *triplets*, i couldn't--. look, senator--let me give you a rough idea. a member has a bill in mind--like you--a camp. right?
right.
fine. now, what does he do? he is got to sit down first and write it up. the where, when, why, how--and everything else. that takes time--
oh, but this one is so simple.
i see. *this* one is so simple--
and with your help--
oh, yes. and *i'm* helping. simple-- and I am helping. so we knock this off in record-breaking time of--let's say three or four days--
oh, just a day--
a *day*!
tonight.
tonight.  look--uh--i do not want to seem to be complaining, senator--but in all civilized countries, there is an institution called *dinner*--!
oh--dinner. yes. well, I am hungry, too. i thought--maybe--we could have something brought in--you know, like big executives who eat off trays. you see, we have got to light into this and get it going--
uh-huh. well, dinner comes in on trays. we are executives. and we light into this. it is dawn. your bill is ready. you go over there and introduce it--
how?
you get to your feet in the senate and present it. then you take the bill and put it in a little box-- like a letter box--on the side of the rostrum. just hold it between thumb and forefinger and drop it in. clerks read it and refer it to the right committee--
committee, huh?
committee.
why?
that is how congress--or any large body--is run. all work has to be done by committee.
why?
look--committees--small groups of senators--have to sift a bill down-- look into it--study it--and report to the whole senate. you can not take a bill no one knows anything about and discuss it among ninety-six men. where would you get?
yes, i see that.
good. where are we?
some committee's got it.
yes. they give it to a *sub*- committee, where they really give it a going over--hold hearings--call in people and ask questions--then report back to the bigger committee--where it is considered some more, changed, amended, or whatever. days are going by, senator. days--weeks. finally, they think it is quite a bill. it goes over to the house of representatives for debate and a vote. *but* it is got to wait its turn on the calendar--
calendar?
that is the order of business. your bill has to stand *way* back there in line unless the steering committee decides it is important enough to be--
what is that?
what?
the steering committee.
do you really think we are getting anywhere.
yes. sure. what is a steering committee?
a committee of the majority party leaders. they decide when a bill is important enough to be moved up toward the head of the list--
*this* is.
pardon me--*this* is. where are we now?
we are over in the house.
yes. house. more amendments--more changes--and the bill goes back to the senate--and *waits its turn on the calendar again*. the senate does not like what the house did to the bill. they make more changes. the house does not like *those* changes. stymie. so they appoint men from each house to go into a huddle called a conference and battle it out. besides that, all the lobbyists interested give cocktail parties for and against--government departments get in their two cents' worth--cabinet members--budget bureaus--embassies. finally, if the bill is alive after all this vivisection, it comes to a vote. yes, sir--the big day finally arrives. and--nine times out of ten, they vote it down.  are you catching on, senator?
yes. shall we start on it right now-- or order dinner first?
pardon?
i said--shall we get started *now* or--
yes--sure. why not?  you do not mind if i take the time to get a pencil?
no! go right ahead, miss saunders.
thanks very much.
and a *lot* of paper!
i would not wait if i were you.
what do you mean? what is going on?
the head man's writing a bill.
a bill! not *him*!
what does he want to--? what is *he* doing writing a bill?
why, he is a senator, is not he? I am surprised at you, mister mcgann--
joe--drop everything and come with me!
what is the matter?
joe! you *told* him to!
yes--a camp bill that will never get beyond a first reading. so calm down, chick--and--goodnight.
--that's the main idea, miss saunders. the united states government is not going to buy or build this camp-- just lend us the money. you have made a note of that, huh?
yes, senator--*twice*.
uh--have you?  did you ever have so much to say about something--you could not say it?
try sitting down.
i did--and--and i got right up.
now, let's get down to particulars. how big is this thing? where is it to be? how many boys will it take care of? if they are going to buy it-- how do they make their contributions? your bill has to have all that in it--
and something else, too, miss saunders-- the spirit of it--the idea--the--
on paper?
i want to make that come to life-- yes, and lighted up like that, too-- for every boy in the land. boys forget what their country means--just reading "land of the free" in history books. and they get to be men--and forget even more. liberty is too precious to get buried in books, miss saunders. men ought to hold it up in front of them--every day of their lives and say: "i am free--to think--to speak. my ancestors couldn't. i can. my children will."
well--gosh--that--that is not "particulars," is it?
but you have just taken care of the spirit all right.
well, anyway, it is *something* like that--  and it *is* important. that--that steering committee has *got* to see it that way. and I am sure senator paine will do all he can--  he is a fine man, miss saunders, is not he? he knew my father, you know.
he did?
we need a lot like him--his kind of character--ideals.
uh--getting back to this, senator--
yes, yes--
now, this camp is going to be out in your state, of course--
about two hundred of the most beautiful acres that ever were! mountains, prairie land, trees, streams! a paradise for boys who live in stuffy cities--  you do not know that country out there, do you, miss saunders?
no.
I have been over every foot of it. you could not have any idea. you would have to see for yourself--  --the prairies--the wind leaning on the tall grass--
you mean--here?
baltimore. pure city-dweller.
but you have had beautiful country all around you. you have just had to life up your eyes!
city-dwellers never do that--for fear of what might drop *in* 'em.
have you always had to--work?
since sixteen or so.
i take it your--your parents couldn't-- uh--
no, they couldn't. father was a doctor. the kind who placed ethics above collections. that speaks well for father but it always left us kind of--  could we get on with this, senator?
it has not been easy, has it?
no complaints.
but--i mean--for a woman--and--you've done awfully well--
have i?
i never met anyone more--more intelligent--or capable. i--i do not know where I would be on this bill of mine without your help--
i do not see where we are *with* it.
no! gosh! i better get moving here, miss saunders--  everybody else calls you just plain "saunders." why can not i?
go right ahead.
saunders. that is better.  good morning, saunders. hello, saunders. how is the bill coming, saunders--?
terrible, thank you.
yeah. yeah. well, anyway, we have got "saunders" settled. maybe that was my trouble all along.  yes, *sir*. I am all ready to go now--  what is your *first* name?
why?
well--nobody calls you anything but saunders.
i also answer to whistles.
you--you've *got* a first name, have not you?
look--i think we ought to skip it.
all right. sure. just curious. the picture popped into my mind all of a sudden of a pump without a handle-- or something--
well, if it is all the same to you--
i know. it's--violet.
it *is* not!
abigail.
no!
letitia.
no!
lena.
no! stop it!
I have got more. you better tell me.
you win. it's--clarissa.
clarissa. oh. uh-huh.  well, saunders--let's go--
now, *susan*--that's really a *pretty* name--
susan! susan paine--that's beautiful--
and a beautiful woman, too--don't you think?
yes. the most beautiful i think i ever--gee--  say--we're *never* going to finish this thing! now, here we go, saunders. I am going to talk faster'n you can write--
uh--willet creek. it is just a little stream--
in terry canyon?
you--don't know it, do you?
no--
you couldn't. you have never been out there, you said.
no, i haven't. i guess i thought the name was familiar.  by the way, you discussed with senator paine where the camp was to be situated and everything?
well--no. i didn't. why?
nothing. i just wondered. no *reason* to take it up with him.  "--about a quarter of a mile on either side of willet creek--"
yeah. this land to be bought by contributions from the boys. you have that. money to be--
sit tight, diz. the show commences in just a minute.
what show? would you mind telling me what is coming off here?
certainly.  now there is the principal actor in our little play.
ah. one of the supporting characters.
who?
that gorilla in man's clothing-- mcgann.
oh, you mean--puss in boots.
yes. mostly "puss."  oh, the *other* prominent character in the play.
the silver knight. soul of honor--on a tight-rope.
what do i play?
you play--left field.
frankly, kid--are you goofy?
diz--don quixote with bill is going to get to his feet in a minute and speak two important words--*willet creek*. when that happens--if my hunch is right--the silver knight will fall off his tightrope and puss will jump out of his boots.
the chair recognizes the rather strong- lunged junior senator, mr. smith.
i--i'm sorry, sir. i--i have a bill--
did you like the first act?
yeah. what about the second act?
that is taking place outside now.
did i hear right? did he say *willet creek*?
let's get away from here.
that is dynamite, joe!
--amazing coincidence! of all places in the world--to choose willet creek for his boys' camp!
joe--i'm getting leery of this guy. we keep calling him dumb--and he keeps winding up in our hair! I am telling you--when he finds out there is a dam going up where he wants his camp, he is going to start asking questions six ways from sunday--
be quiet, chick--i'm trying to think--  this deficiency bill is going to be read in the senate tomorrow.
tomorrow! joe--he'll hear the section on willet dam. he can not be there!
i know that.
listen--tomorrow i take him to see monuments--if i have to hit him over the head with a couple!
that will not work, chick. this boy's honest, not stupid.
susan!
my daughter is not here to carry out assignments like that for *anybody*.
well, then--this is too much for *my* lame brain. I am calling jim taylor.
jim's methods will not do in washington.
joe--listen--all susan has to do is turn those big eyes on him--he'll fall all over himself--just keep him out of there *one afternoon*--while they read that bill--
what do they--? who are all those--?
one of the plagues on members of congress--office-seekers, cranks, people with pet bills. get my son into west point--or *outta* west point. I have got a scheme to put people to work. how do i get rid of cockroaches? some woman's composed a hymn to replace the star spangled banner. want to hear it?
no--not today! boy, i feel like a house afire! saunders--how did i do?
great.
i--i do not know how i got it out. my heart was right up here all the time--  i wonder what senator paine thought of it?
must have been tickled pink.
gee--i hope so. what is all this?
contributions from boys who read about your camp.
already? all these letters?
oh, those are only local. wait'll they start pouring in from all over the country.
do you mean all--look--look we would better open them up--see what they say here--look at the money--what does it say--"dear senator smith, i would like to come to your boy's camp and i shine shoes at the station and here's nine cents." oh, is not that wonderful. look and he signs it. "yours truly, stinky moore." is not that marvelous?  say--have i got some paper here?
second drawer.
good! I am going to be pretty busy tonight--
not another bill?
no! letters. I have got to write to the rangers and ma--and--i'm bustin' with news! why, I have introduced a bill! me--jeff smith. i got up and talked in the senate!
do you want to dictate them?
the letters? gosh--no. i could not talk letters. I have got to scratch 'em out. and say--i'm going to tell ma all about you. if i tell it right-- the first thing you know you are going to get the best jar of preserves you ever tasted.
thanks a lot.
oh--*saunders*!
i--i--gee whiz--i did not thank you!
do not mention it--
i mean it. i--without you, i could't've--
yes--right here. just a second--  miss paine.
*who*! miss--! is that--? why did not you--? holy smoke;  h-hello... yes, miss paine... how-- how are you, miss paine...? what?... escort *you* gee--i mean--*sure*-- *yes*! I would be--. reception for a *princess*! gosh!... thanks, miss paine. yes. i--i'll be there! goodbye, miss paine.  did you hear that?--escort susan paine--reception for a princess! imagine her calling me--asking *me*-- !
get your hat, senator. we have got a lot to do between now and tomorrow--
wow!
i--i'm awfully glad to be--that is, it was nice of you to--  uh--how's your father?
splendid.
uh--that's good. and--uh--you?
I am splendid, too.
that's--that's splendid.
and how is your bill, senator?
oh, the bill. oh--splendid--i mean--  i--i just can not seem to talk in this suit.  I will tell you a secret. it is brand new.
well! you do not say!
it is just as well to tell you--because if we are going to get off on the right foot--i mean--in case i act sort of strange--it's the suit.
well--i--
funnier things have happened. ma says when pa was courting her, he acted strange for months. did not make sense--or anything. and one day, on a hunch, ma said: "clayton, so help me, you talk like a man whose collar is too tight to bear." "not the collar, mary," he said, "my shoes." "well, for land's sake," ma said, "take the pesky things off!" which pa did, an' they were engaged within a week.
you are not going to take your *suit* off!
no! no! gosh. see, there you are! I am not making sense!
well--i stuck my foot in it again at the president's press conference today--  how come so early? get the day off?
they decoyed the little general off to a tea party to keep him out of the senate.
well, well--  yeah--i got smart and thought I would slip one over on the old man in the press meeting. i said, "mr. president, about the monopoly investigation--" and he jumps right in and says, "diz, if you were sitting in my chair, would you answer the question you are about to ask?" he had me.
i do not mind *who* gets licked in a *fair* fight, diz. it is these clouts below the belt i can not take. sicking that horrible dame on him--when he is goofy about her--
what dame?
paine.
oh--yeah--
he is not going to hurt enough as it is. *she* has to twist a knife in him, too--the regal jackass! "i'll turn my glamour on him," she says--
forget it, kid. what is it *to* you?
nothing. I am just saying--i might be able to lie, cheat, steal--and I would still tear into a guy i saw kicking a dog. not that *he* is, by a long shot--
okay. so what? stop worrying. I have told you--the dopes are going to inherit the earth anyway--
I have wondered, diz--maybe this don quixote's got the jump on all of us. I have wondered--maybe it is a curse to go through life wised up like you and me--
now, look, kid--if we are going to wonder, let's go down and do it over a hunk of steak.  come on, snap out of it. diz moore-- that rarest of companions--is here at your side.  to genteel crime, kid.
and to don quixote!
why do i always laugh at that?
"there's more light here," he says--
drunks are funny--
yeah. funny--
yeah.
yeah. some of my best friends are funny.
every time i think of it, i get a laugh, diz.
my friends?
old don quixote--man of the people smith--
waiter!
--followin' miss susan fass-pass around--his little heart poundin' away--the sound of angels' wings in his ears.
now, you have gone and let don quixote in here again. i told you to keep him out!
shut up, diz.
mind, now! keep don quixote out of here!
and i got him all dressed up, too-- to go way up in a balloon--so they can drop him a long way--make sure they break his heart. why, not all the boy rangers in the world, working night shifts, 'll be able to put humpty-dumpty together again--
now--how'd humpty-dumpty get in here?
do you know how i felt, diz?
no. how did you feel? quick.
like a mother sending her kid off to school for the first time--watchin' the little fella toddling off--in his best bib and tucker--and you sink in the middle--hoping he can stand up to the other kids--won't get his feeling hurt--and--if you could only spare him the knocks he is got to take--  say--who started this?
*i'm* just waiting for a street car--
well--cut it out. see? who *cares* anyway?
i apologize.
*all right*, then. after all, what is it to me? so they *drop* him out of a balloon. all i care is--i do not want to be around. see? squeamish. see? that is what i am. no, sir. i do not have to take it. will not be a party to no murder. I am going to quit. I am through.
again? good idea.
diz--
yeah.
how about getting married?
good idea. when?
any time.
tonight?
okay. you do not mind?
I will cherish ya.
you--you've been a good egg, diz. maybe we could clear out of this town--get to feel like *people*--get the habit of lifting up our eyes-- live like we just got out of a tunnel.
tunnel?
you have never seen prairie grass with the wind leaning on it, have you, diz?
is the wind tired out there?
or angry little mountain streams-- and cattle moving against the sun. you have not seen any of that, have you, diz?
have *you*?
no.
do we *have* to?
no! i can not think of anything more sappy!)
well, let's get going.
where?
we are going to get married.
yeah--that's right. diz--
what?
i case you do not know--i want to give ya a chance to back out if you do not like it--
what?
my first name's--clarissa.
yeah, i know. that is okay.
do not say "okay," diz. say you think it is beautiful.
okay--i mean--
you do not know a name off-hand you like better, do you, diz?
no--not offhand--
nothing like--uh--susan--or anything like that, huh?
susan? nah!
i will not take it! see? i will not be party to murder. see? steering a poor dope up blind alleys for that grafting taylor mob is low enough. but helping that dame cut him up in little pieces besides--nobody's going to make me do that. no, sir.
you said it!
I am getting out of there. right now, diz. right now. bonus or no bonus. I am going to clear outa that office-- everything i own--my extra hat-- everything--
hey! we are gettin' married--!
right now--everything i own--!
i know. do not tell me. it was a wonderful party. your suit went over big. and she looked beautiful, and she gave her hand when you left her-- and said--"thank you, mr. smith." oh, but it was the way she *said* it. you like to fell through the floor--horseradish!
saunders--!
and you are writing ma all about it. and your pigeons will carry the message of love. and the first thing you know--susan paine'll get the best jar of preserves she ever tasted!
are you drunk?
well--let's dig up the preacher, kid.
huh?
you know, we are getting married.
take me home, diz.
--i may not know much about a lot of things, sir--but i know that willet creek country like a book--and--and i tell you, senator paine--there's something *wrong* about this dam-- why, there is not a foot of water in that creek--it's dry four months out of the--
jeff--listen--this was all taken up in the state legislature and approved-- they are going to divert waters from up above--
but--there are a hundred other places in the state that *need* the water. besides--i talked to kenneth allen, who owns some of that land--and he did not say anything about a dam. no-- I am sure, sir--there's something wrong--and i--i will not vote on this thing until i get a lot of questions answered--
jeff! you are trying to understand in a moment everything about a project that took two years to set up--the reasons--the benefits--
yes--the *benefits*! what is a man called taylor got to do with this?
he is a newspaper publisher i know-- and--
what makes you think he is got *anything* to do with it?
saunders said--this whole thing was *his* idea to get graft--!
boy ranger! the answer to a prayer. manna from heaven! did not know the time of day--!
will you please tell me *exactly* what he is done?
yes! he is about to blow the whole machine to smithereens--and *you with it*, mr. governor!
me! jim--how--?
you could not understand! listen, ten thumbs, I will be on my way to washington in half an hour. whatever happens, I am all ready for this ranger of yours. never mind how. you will get your instructions from ken allen here. it is not anything you have to do. i would not trust you to lick a stamp. allen'll do it himself. you just use your *high office* to help him get it done. understand?
y-yes, jim.
i doubt it! come on, ken.
--i've used every argument in the world to try to turn him off. he just keeps coming back to the dam-- and what he knows--
saunders! I would like to tie her in a sack and drop her from the brooklyn bridge--
--now he wants to talk to the congressmen from the willet creek districts--he's run their names down--
that is him. let him in.
wait a minute--jim--you did not ask *smith* over here!
what do you think?
jim, you can not come here and pull that steamroller stuff. your methods will not do here. this boy is a senator, however it happened, he is a senator. this is washington.
steamroller stuff, joe? my methods do not go in washington? they have done pretty well by now, have not they?
oh, jim, that is beside the point. this boy's different. he is honest and beside he thinks the world of me. we can not do this to him.
well, what do you want me to do? stand around like you chump and let that drooling infant wrap that willet creek dam appropriation around my neck. either he falls in line with us and behaves himself or I will break him so wide open they will never be able to find the pieces.
jim, i will not stand for it.
you will not stand for it?
i do not want any part of crucifying this boy.
oh, i see. out steamroller methods are getting too hard to your sensitive soul, is that it, joe? the silver knight is getting to big for us. my methods have been all right for the past twenty years, joe, since i picked you out of a fly-specked hole in the wall and blew you up to look like a senator, and now you can not stand it. well, maybe you will not have to stand it, joe. maybe we can fix it so you and your boy ranger can go home together.
jim, you do not have to--
oh, it is all right--it's all right. it seems a shame, though, to part company like this after all these years, especially now with a national convention coming up. joe, I have put everything i have behind you. and so did all of our friends, but i guess we will survive. we will just have to find somebody else that is got a little more sense, that is all. in the meantime, you explain to mr. smith about willet dam. it is your bill-- it is your reputation, and if he can not find enough facts to break you with, you just send him to me and I will give him a couple of good ones. I am taking the next plane home.
jim, it is just that i like the kid-- i do not want to see you get too rough on him.
I am glad to see you come to your senses. you had me scared there for a minute, thought.  let him in.
jeff--this is mr. taylor.
glad to know you, senator. meet the boys--
congressmen, radner, schultz, diggs--
well. i hear you have been right on your toes since you got here. pitching right in. lots of people took you for dumb--but they are wrong. you are smart. in fact, *i* think you are smart enough to understand a situation when it is explained to you--
like what, mr. taylor?
well now--just to take an example-- putting up a dam--on willet creek. as i look at it--that dam's going to do the people of our state a lot of good--
yes, so i was told, mr. taylor, but--
but you have some objections here and there. and maybe right, for all i know. but the point is--there's no sense stopping the whole works now-- specially after some men have worked hard for a long time to put this through--
what is your interest in this, mr. taylor?
mine? why--naturally--whatever benefits the state is mighty important to me--owning a lot of its industry-- newspapers and other odds and ends. and if i thought you had the welfare of the state at heart, like myself-- for instance, if you were to turn around and help a project like this along instead of standing in the way-- why, I would say you were a man to watch. for a fellow your age, you would be in a spot to make a great start in life. if you liked business--you could pick any job in the state and go right to the top. or politics. if you like being a senator. no reason why you could not come back to that senate for the rest of your life.
jim!
just a minute, joe!
you can not say *that* to--
*i* know what I am doing! I will say what i *want*!
can not you?
you mean--you tell these men--and senator paine what to do?
yes! I have told senator paine for twenty years--
you are a liar!
it is in your lap, joe. keep an eye on him. if he gets to his feet and says anything--
it is crucifying him--!
anything *better* to offer?
maybe he will not get up.
but--if he *does*, joe--
the senator understands he is limited to five minutes?
yes, sir--
y-yes.
mr. president--gentlemen--i--i have risen to a painful duty--to say that, out of evidence that has come to my attention, i consider senator smith unworthy to address this body!
a dirty frame!
emma!
--what possible explanation can you offer for this charge being--as you say--"trumped up" against you!
it was done to stop me from talking about a section of the appropriations bill!
it was?
yes! this was how i could be put out of the senate and out of the way! they even *promised* me that if i--
where were you?
to--to a reception--uh--for a princess-- i forget her name--
and you say you never signed this contract with mr. allen?
i did not--
you have never *seen* this contract.
never.
but you did *talk* to mr. allen about that and--?
i--i discussed it with him--yes-- because i--you see, I have always had this camp in mind--but i made no contract with him!
then--this is *not* you signature, senator?
looks like it, but--
but it *isn't*?
it could not be.
you are saying, in effect, that this is a forgery?
I am saying i did not sign it!
your ranger's on the garbage pile, happy! he is done for!
shut up! you have *got* the man pilloried! do you have to dance around him like a cannibal--!
hey--joe! where you going? we have got to celebrate tonight!
no--i--i'll take a walk--
he is cooked! they will drum the poor lug out of that chamber tomorrow as sure as i'm--! and now they are all down on him. yeah--my press pals, too--he's a bad egg--still water running deep. boloney! it is the frame of all time! when i see a phoney like this--my journalist blood boils-- i wanna *fight*!  look, kid--rack your brains, will you? have not you got any confidential stuff on that mob? I will write my arm off--i'll blow taylor and his--
I have told you ten times--if i had anything they could not bat down in a second, do not you suppose i'd've been up in that hearing yelling murder! sure--he was cooked the night i sounded off like a fool and spilled the whole works!
then--in the name of kindness to dumb animals--we can not let him walk into that senate tomorrow and take a terrible punch in a nose! a couple of us went up there--told him all he could do was beat it--resign--clear out. but--he's in a daze--he's been hit by a ton of bricks. just says, "i have not done anything. why should i resign?" he might *listen* to *you*--
why me?
come on--don't pull that. you know you would give your right--. what are you staying away from him for?
you do not think he would want *me* within fifty miles, do you?--after the exhibition he saw me give! did you see his *face*--?
all i know is--he said to me tonight-- "what does your wife think?" my wife. thinks we are married--
well, then, that is great! and that is a great place to leave it! it is no use *my* barging into this now and--
what do you want, senator?
saunders--it's going to go pretty bad for jeff tomorrow. there is only one thing that can be done for him now--  i--i've written his resignation. he resigns under protest--denying all charges. no one will ever be sure if he was guilty or not. it leaves him with at least a shred of honor. the other way--branded openly in the senate--expelled--he'll never live it down. rather a simple compromise than utter ruin. in a year--the whole thing might be forgotten--
what are you driving at? you want *me* to get him to sign that?
yes--
why do not you do it yourself?
he is lost complete faith in me--
well--me, too!
but--you love him, do not you, saunders?
what are you talking about? what difference--?
do you?
all right--*yes*! and what does that make me to him? *nothing*! I have got to go about my own business--and forget it!
i thought i could, too.  *my* business--this fine future! i have no future i *care* about, if this boy is broken! i--i can not sleep. the only important thing in my life now is to save what i can for him. i want him to get a start again--i'll see that he is taken care of as long as he lives--!  saunders--whether you ever mean anything to him or not--
*me! me*! i *still* do not see why i should--! if you love him so much, why do not you go to him yourself and-- ? or better still--get up in that senate and *fight* for him!
it is too late now--it's *impossible*!
so i go right back where i was-- carrying compromises--covering up-- back to political tricks--this time for--! no! i was just getting rid of all that. if i did *anything*, i ought to go and tell him to stand up and--. no! i do not want any part of it! smith or anything else! I am all through. i want to be left alone!
hello.
saunders--
well gee--how--how've you been, saunders? i--i have not seen you in-- . i suppose--now that you are married--
I am not.
no. that night--i--well, *you* know-- i was pretty--. no--diz is a--a sort of brother, that is all--
that is funny. i thought all along--  gee--i--i'm glad to see you. i *thought* of you--i mean--i wanted to talk to someone and--well--  --mr. lincoln has not much to say--  saunders--i'm not fit to sit up in the senate--haven't you heard?--i robbed boys of their pennies and dimes!
what are you going to do?
i--i do not know. i--i'm afraid they have got me licked.
it might save some of the pieces, jeff. it would leave a doubt about the whole thing--about you. might blow over, this way.
yeah. i see. well--that's about the only thing to do. do not you think?
well, i guess it is a chance.
yeah. i guess--sometimes--senator paine must be right. sometimes you-- you got to compromise a little--  and if you say so too, saunders--if *you* think that is the thing to do--
i *don't* think that is the thing to do! no! i think what you ought to do is--*fight*!
wait--
what you *have* to do is fight!
but--i've done everything i--
i do not care *what* you have done! do not quit. do not grab a measly chance like this to save a few pieces--other men could--but not you. as long as you lived, you would remember you ran out and threw this country of yours to the jackals--!
oh--saunders--
jeff--listen--remember the day you got here?--what you said about mr. lincoln?--that he was sitting up there--watching--waiting for someone to come along? well--that was *you*. someone with a little plain, decent, uncompromising *rightness*--to root out the taylors--yeah, and really light up that dome for once. this country could use some of that--so could the whole drunken, cockeyed world right now--a *lot* of it! and when the right man comes along--no matter *what* the odds--he can not *ever* quit! a little fellow called david walked out with only a sling- shot--but he had the *truth* on his side--
saunders--if there was *any* way--
we will *find* one! only throw compromise out of the window--stick to jeff smith, the man who first came to this town--get up and *fight*-- and we will find *some* way. i do not know where we will wind up--but the flag'll be flying--!
yay!
hurray!
where do we go from here?
to a hard night's work, son. come on!
mr. president!
mr. president!
i addressed the chair first, sir!
i am about to ask for a roll call on the passage of the resolution--without further delay. the senator can have nothing to say at this time that would not be either in bad grace or--
however, senator smith is still a member of this body and as such has equal claim on the attention of the chair--
you were about to recognize me, sir--
that is merely your *impression*, senator. the chair has yet to settle the question to its own satisfaction!
mr. president! will the senator yield?
will senator smith yield to--?
will the senator yield?
order!  will senator smith yield to--?
yield *how*, sir?
will he yield for a question?
ah, now, that is better.
will he *yield*?
for a *question*.
does my colleague's piece concern section forty of the bill--a dam on willet creek?
it does!
every *aspect* of this matter--the gentleman's attack on that section-- everything--was dealt with in the committee hearing--
mr. president--
i wish to ask the gentleman--has he one shred of evidence to add now to the defense he did not give--and *could* not give at that same hearing?
i have no defense against forged papers and--
the committee ruled otherwise! the gentleman stands guilty as charged. and i believe i speak for all the members when i say that no one cares to hear what a man of his condemned character has to say about *any* section of *any* legislation before this house!
order, gentlemen!
mr. president--i stand guilty as *framed*! because section forty is graft, and i was ready to say so. i was ready to tell you that one man in my state--mister james taylor-- was putting that dam through for his own profit!
will the senator--
i will not yield, sir! this same man-- mister taylor--came here to offer me a place in this senate for twenty years, if i would vote for a dam that he knew and *i* knew was a *fraud*! but if i opened my mouth against it, he promised to break me in two! and i stood here one day and tried--i *started* to open my mouth-- and it all came to pass. the long, powerful arm of mister james taylor reached right into this sacred chamber and took me by the scruff of the neck--
mr. president! a point of order!
mr. president--
senator paine will state it!
it was *i* who rose in this chamber to accuse him. he is saying that i was carrying out criminal orders on falsified evidence--
mr. president--
he has imputed to me conduct unworthy a senator--and i demand he be made to yield the floor--!
mr. president--i did not say that senator paine was one of those congressmen i saw. if the chair please, i will deny that senator paine *saw* taylor or even knows him--
i *did* see taylor! and i was in that room!
i accuse this man--by his tone--by his careful denials--he is deliberately trying to plant damaging impressions of my conduct--! *i'll* tell you why we were in tht room. because mr. taylor, a respected citizen of our state, had brought with him the evidence against this man, later presented from this floor, and *we were urging him to resign*-- !
order!
--to avoid bringing disgrace upon a clean and honorable state!
order!
finally, there was only one answer to a man like him--the truth--which i rose and gave to this body!  mr. president--he has told lie upon lie--every lie a desperate attempt to conceal his own guilt. and now, he is trying to blackmail this senate-- as he tried to blackmail me! to prevent his expulsion, he would probably even try to hold up this deficiency bill--vital to the whole country--which must be passed immediately--*today*! *anything*--to force you to clear his bad name and save his hide!  gentlemen--i--i have no more patience with this--this *rascally* character. i apologize to this body for his appointment--i regret i had ever known him. i--i'm sick and tired of this contemptible young man and i refuse to listen to him any longer! i hope every member of this body feels as i do!
will the senator yield?
for a question!
has the gentleman the effrontery-- standing there convicted and in disgrace--to try to force the postponement of that bill--?
for one week!
is he fully aware that this bill has been months in both houses--delayed and delayed--millions will be without food and shelter until its passage-- public works to relieve unemployment will be at a standstill--government agencies will be forced to suspend-- ?
uh--mr. president--you and i are about to be alone in here, sir. I am not complaining for social reasons, but it would be a pity if the gentlemen missed any of this.  mr. president--i call the chair's attention to rule five of the standing rules of the senate section three. "if it shall be found that a quorum is not present, a majority of the senators present--," and that begins to look like me--"may direct the sergeant-at-arms to request, and if necessary *compel* the attendance of the absent senators."  mr. president--*i so direct*.
ring the call to quorum.
the war's on!
he is a house-afire!
diz--get what he says to the people back in that state. it is up to you and the boys. keep those wires hot. fire away, pal!
when jeff gets through with taylor, pop--
when jeff gets through with taylor--  quiet! what do you mean by breaking in here--? get out! get *out* of here!
jim--the boy's talking to that state-- the story is out--!
sure! the fight's in the open now-- to a finish--!
and if he can raise public opinion against us--if any *part* of this sticks--
he will not get started! I will *make* public opinion out there in five hours. I have done it all my life! I will blacken this punk until--  joe--your job is back in the senate-- keep those men fighting him *there*.
i hit him from the floor with everything i knew!
keep doing it! this is the whole works, joe--we're out of business of bigger than we then we ever were. we can not miss a trick--we can not stop at *anything*--till this yokel's smashed up and buried so deep he will never--!
"--we hold these truths to be self- evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights--"  well--looks like the night shift's comin' on.
the senator will please suspend until order is restored in the chamber.
will the senator yield for a question?
i yield.
in view of the gentleman's touching concern for the senators, would he permit a motion to recess until the morning--at which time he could continue to educate this august body with his profound babblings?
well, now--i would not know about that. mr. president--what happens to me in the morning--i mean about my having this floor to go on babbling?
if the senator permits this motion to recess he will not have the floor in the morning to babble or anything else, unless he is recognized first by the chair.
diz!
kid--he thinks he is talking to that mob at home, but not a line we have written--not a word he is said from that floor has gotten into that home state.
what!
not a word! taylor's sewed up every paper. they are tossing out everything that comes in over the wires!
freedom of the press! mr. james taylor blindfolding a whole state--  wait a minute! if that is how he wants to play *i'll* get through to that bunch--i'll get plenty of words into that, state--!  come on, diz, get that stuff you have written--let me have it--
mr. president, will the senator yield for a question?
will senator smith yield to his colleague?
yes, sir, i yield for a question.
the gentleman has said repeatedly that he is speaking to the people of his state. he has been waiting, as he so fancifully puts it, for them to come marching here in droves. would the gentleman be interested in knowing what those people have to say?
yes, sir, you bet i would.
mr. president, have i permission to bring into this chamber evidence of the response from my state?
is there objection?  you may proceed, senator.
page boys!
every word that boy said is the truth! I am not fit for office! I am not fit for any place of honor or trust in this land! expel me--!
he did it.
please, sir!--come with me!
no, jeff--please--!
i say it is *your* parade, sir! you have *got* to come!
hello, jefferson.
hello, ma.  clarissa, ma. she will be stayin' a while--
fine--
and senator paine too, ma--we'd like to have him--
certainly would, joseph.
how is amos, ma?
just fine.
we would better see.
jeff--wait--they want you to speak!
not *me*! joseph paine is the man they ought to be listening to! come on!
