a fine choice, sir.
excellent!
the royal family and senior members of the household, ma'am.
just them?
yes, ma'am.
we're expecting brown this afternoon, ma'am.
whom?
that's a very pretty shawl you are wearing, alex.  silk suits you well.  but you are not eating enough.  one must not let vanity overrule one's appetite.
yes, ma'am.
her majesty's routine at osborne house is not as you will remember it.  the household remains in full mourning and no-one is permitted to raise their voice under any circumstances whatsoever.  as for the queen's routine, she breakfasts at nine thirty, lunches at two,takes tea at five thirty and dinner at eight forty five.  no one is allowed to leave the building while the queen is at home. on the rare occasions when she is out, you may ask permission to leave, but only with my consent. you're to be ready to walk the pony at any time after ten o'clock.  you'll clean her outdoor things and do any odd jobs as and when she requires.
how will i know?
i'm sorry?
how will i know what she requires?
you'll be sent a message.
who'll bring it to me?
her highness' equerry.
i need a man who knows where i am.
i'm sure it won't be difficult to find you.
that's not good enough.
then we'll have to see what can be arranged.
aye, do.
there is to be no communication with other members of the household on matters concerning the court except through myself or one of the equerries.  no plans must be altered unless you are given prior authority by myself or a senior member of the household.
i came down at the queen's request. i'll take my orders from her.
in matters concerning the household, i act on her behalf.
do you?
yes.  i do.
mr brown.
ma'am.
you are here safely.
aye, ma'am.
you are well?
i am.
and the pony?
she's well, too.
your family sent cards.  it was much appreciated.
i'm glad of it.
my husband was always very complimentary in speaking of you.  he would have approved, i am sure, of my calling on you in this way.  i trust it does not inconvenience you too much.
i've no family, ma'am, apart from my brothers and sisters.
yes.  you have a brother in service here, do you not?  i forget his name.
archie.
yes.  that will be company for you.
yes, ma'am.
so?
so, there are rules.  things you do and things you don't do.
i was just telling the woman how i feel, for god's sake.
you don't tell her majesty how you feel.
i speak as i find, archie.
not down south you don't.
so what did ponsonby do when she started shouting?
i think he nearly ruptured his truss.
how much?
seventy a year.
not bad, not bad.
how about yourself?
sixty.
that's pretty good for a ghillie.
prince leopold?  is he the one who bleeds all day?  so what does his valet do?  wash his poultices for him?
it's better than shovelling horse shit.
if you were looking for promotion, you should have picked one of the healthier ones.
she's hardly a full hamper herself.
it's only grief makes her like she is.
three years, john.  is that not a bit long to be grieving?
she loved him.
come on, man.  there's love and there's ...
what?
you know what i mean.
i'm not sure i do, archie.
there's love and there's behaving like you do because there's nobody to tell you not to.
which one of us is she flirting with?
the good-looking one.
aye?  then she's obviously not got enough to do.
you work the system right, you could ask her yourself.  just be thankful you're not working for household.  the queen never lets them out of her sight.  but wee spats like us can slip through the net, easy.
it's mr brown, ma'am.
what is he doing there?
he appears to be ... standing by his horse.
i made no request to go out riding today.  how long has he been there?
i don't know, ma'am.  he was observed earlier, i believe.
sir henry, mr brown is standing in the courtyard.  i have no wish to go riding.
i'm very sorry, ma'am.  i can't imagine -- he was certainly given no instructions.
please make sure it does not happen again.
of course, at once.
awaiting my orders.
you do not report for duty unless the queen requests it.  you know that very well.
i didn't come all this way to sit on my arse.
you will await your orders like everyone else.  unless you prefer a repeat of yesterday's little excitement.
no.
i beg your pardon?
i thought i made myself perfectly clear.  you do not leave your room until her majesty requests it.
well, you tell her majesty from me, if her husband was here now, he'd have had her out of that house and getting some air in her.  what the hell's the point in me being here otherwise?!
go inside at once.
is that the queen's request?
yes, it most certainly is!
mr brown.
yes, ma'am.
you have been told repeatedly not to stand in the courtyard unless requested to do so.
yes, ma'am.
then why do you persist in doing it?
because i think her majesty is wrong. if ever there was a poor soul who needed fresh air, it is her.
the queen will ride out if and when she chooses.
and i intend to be there when she's ready.
prince albert was going to build a bench here.  he thought it one of the best views in osborne.
it's a fine spot, ma'am.
he thought so, yes.
if prince albert were here today, he'd tell him a thing or two.
sir henry is not alone.  they all wish it.  the same people who refused to grant my husband the title of king because he was deemed of insufficient rank--
it is a fine spot for a bench, is it not?
aye, ma'am.
yes.
mr. carter, the head butler, sits there.
not now he doesn't.  this is my place.
by whose authority?
my own.
the order of seating at the upper servant's table is arranged personally by the queen herself.
that's a tautology lad.  if you say the queen arranges something, you've no need to say she's done it personally.  that's understood.
what's your name?
mary taylor, sir.
have i seen you up in balmoral, mary?
i hope to go up next year.
you wouldn't happen to know what the queen's reading for recreation, would you, mary?
lord clarendon arrives, by invitation, at eleven o'clock, followed at twelve by a picnic in the grounds to celebrate princess alice's birthday. dispatches, as usual, at two.  the chancellor writes to say that, by happy coincidence, he will be in cowes for the weekend.  he asks if your majesty might grant him an audience.
why?
he thought, perhaps, your majesty might wish to be informed of the latest developments in government.
no.  i shall be out walking.
gesture?
i thought, a dinner for our ambassadors perhaps?
no dinners, bertie.  why are you dressed for outdoors?
it's so infernally cold in here.
cold is good--  is that not so, dr. jenner?!
i'm sorry, ma'am?
cold is good!
excellent, ma'am, excellent.  but perhaps if her majesty were to consider accompanying her new-found physical vigor with the benefits of mental activity...
why am i being lectured in this way?!
forgive me, your majesty.  in no way did i wish to suggest--
i will not tolerate anybody lecturing me about the responsibility of the monarchy....
mother....
... least of all my son.  it was his irresponsibility that drove my husband to his grave.
if it is inconvenient to her majesty, then perhaps she might consider allowing the prince of wales to host--
i do believe they send so many boxes to taunt me. doctor jenner writes to them to say that my nerves are in an extremely fragile state and yet they continue to hound me with box after box after box after box after box!
should we take it seriously?
the cartoon or her majesty's absenteeism?
well, both.
the question is, do we need her?
surely, you're not suggesting we dispense--
my dear stanley, a prime minister with only a handful of friends must respect public opinion.
gossip counts.  lord aberdeen was right.  this country is not governed by wisdom but by talk.  granted, it wouldn't take much to winkle the old girl out of mourning, but if public opinion is against her, then it doesn't do to appear too close.
so?
we'll see which way the wind blows.
one box of biscuits, one box of drop tablets, one box of pralines, sixteen chocolate sponges.  it's the same order every week, but does anybody bother to check it?  now she has to travel all the way to balmoral without the few luxuries she actually enjoys.
so?  someone'll send it on ahead.
aye, but will they?
john, it's not your problem what she eats.
the woman's surrounded by fools!  she has to be packed and ready to leave by seven thirty tomorrow morning.  knowing that lot, they'll still be dressing her at eight.
she's got an army of people to get her up and out.
but i'm the only one she trusts.
she'll blow hot and cold on you, john, she always does.  you want to be careful.
i'm on ninety pounds a year plus seventy pounds for a pile of tartan i'd be wearing anyway.  that's as much as a page of the back stairs gets and that job's only for toffs.  i'm her majesty's highland servant! indoors and out.  there's no stopping me now.
what are those?
what?
those, over there, there.
craobhan-geanmchno-fhiadhaich.
craobhan-geanmchno...  how can i possibly say that with a straight face?!
i am thinking of publishing my "highland journals."
are they worth reading?
i am told so.
who by?
sir henry ponsonby tells me they are charming.
what does he know about the highlands?
he has been attending at balmoral for many years.
that doesn't make him an expert.
his remarks were directed at the quality of the writing, not its subject.
i don't groom a horse to have it admired by others, i groom it because it needs grooming.
i do not do it for others.  but ponsonby thinks they are good.
just say what you have to say, woman. what other people think shouldn't matter to you.
of course i shall say what i have to say.  i always do.
aye, well, if all you want is a good opinion then he'd be sure to oblige you.
what mr ponsonby was appreciating was their literary merit, a skill not intimately associated with the knowledge of grooming.  literary appreciation does not begin and end with tennyson.
she'll be away on friday between eight o'clock and six in the evening to visit the grants in glasalt.  if she's to make the journey there and back in the day she's to have no distractions the night before.  she'll take a light supper alone in her private drawing room and retire early.
she'll need to sign dispatches before she retires.
that can wait till the weekend.
there are important papers from --
it can wait.  anything else?
surely it is for the gentlemen to decide when to stop...
it is a disgusting habit, bertie.  it should be discouraged.
yes, but isn't midnight a little excessive?
it is quite late enough.
but mama, the room was built expressly for that purpose.  it has been a smoking-room by tradition ever since father --
brown's responsibilities are onerous enough already.  he has far too much to do without having to stay up all night waiting for you to go to bed. the smoking-room will be closed and the lights put out at twelve o'clock.
mama...
and that is my last word on the matter.
well, i'm sorry, but i really do think it's too much that the gentlemen of the house should be dictated to by a servant.
it's the queen's decision.
i beg your pardon?  mama...?
they're ready now.
i hope they didn't go to any trouble, john.
ah, well...
i see the prince of wales is here.
i hope he got his mother's permission.
mr disraeli.  ma'am.
your royal highness.  what a pleasure to see you here.
have you met mr lyle?  he's in sugar...?
i don't think i've had that pleasure.
no doubt you've heard the rumors.
i take no account of gossip, your highness.
my concern is for the reputation of the monarchy.
of course.
i fear the influence he has on her. the man's word is not to be credited. he is an arriviste of the very lowest water.  she's having a bust cast of him.  in nero marquino marble.
i see.
i would talk to her myself, but she won't listen to me.  she must be persuaded, by someone she respects, to abandon this ridiculous favoritism before a situation develops.
a situation?
i don't imagine you frequent the republican clubs.  but the fact that neither you nor i are members should not blind us to the significance of their existence.  the tory party has always been our party.
i'm flattered you think so.
i tell you, if we don't stick together on this, you could find yourself first president's opposition.  du royaum uni.
quite.
what did he want?
to know when he'll be king.
we stayed a little longer than expected with mr and mrs grant.  it was most agreeable.
we were expecting you to return by six.
and now i am back.
we took a nip of whiskey.
to keep out the cold.
aye.
a distinct flushing around the cheeks. she was drunk, i tell you.
no, she wasn't.
what is it, john?  john?
i heard something.
what happens to john brown is his business, but the queen's security will never be compromised!
we --
you'll talk when i'm finished!
if i find out that you had anything to do with this, i will have you sacked.
i believe that decision rests with her majesty.
don't think i can't persuade her.
i don't doubt that the queen was highly amused.  she has always had a very healthy sense of humor.
this is a slur on her good name.
in as much as the article is about yourself, i think you must now accept that the public has a right to its interest in you.
nobody has any rights over me.
we are all of us subject to forces beyond our control, mr brown, even you.
we're going to lose.
you can't know that for sure.
gladstone's got his party facing the same way for the first time in years. we need help.  where is the old girl?
who?
mrs brown.
it's questionable whether there's any advantage to be had from that direction.  she's never been less popular.
in the press, perhaps.  but she's sold more copies of her highland journal in three months than punch will ever sell in a year.  time to wheel her out.
she's refusing to leave balmoral.
what's her excuse this time?
the princess louisa is too ill to move.  frankly, the queen's rather upset at the recent spate of bad publicity.  you're smiling.
i was trying to imagine "rather upset."
forgive me, gentlemen.  i'm late.
not at all, dean.  good of you to spare the time.
i came as quickly as i could.
you've seen the latest cartoon in punch, i take it?
i beg your pardon?
what can we do?
oh, several things.
read it.
again?
read it!
who told them that?
i have no idea.
why not?
i -- forgive me, ma'am, i am no wiser than yourself.
no-one should think themselves wiser than me!  it is not for any of the queen's subjects to presume to tell her majesty when and where she should come out of mourning.  it is the queen's sorrow that keeps her secluded!  it is her overwhelming amount of work and responsibility, work which she feels will soon wear her out entirely!
your majesty --
is it not enough that she is uncheered and unguided that she should also have to suffer these malicious rumors?!  i am not a fool.  i know there are those in the establishment too afraid to attack me and so they attack my dearest friends. sometimes -- i feel that brown is all i have left of albert.  and now they attack brown too.
i wish to see my mother.
she's busy.
convey her a message.
she's away to windsor tomorrow.  talk to her there.
tell her the prince of wales wishes to speak with her urgently about matters concerning the press.
are you deaf as well as stupid?
what did you say?
i said, are you deaf as well as stupid?
do you know who you address, sir?
whom you address.
the future king!
well, everyone's entitled to their opinion.
out of my way!
must they always follow us?
i ordered it.  it's for your own safety.
dear me, you'll be telling me to watch what i eat next.
am i not safe enough with you, john?
aye.  but there are fenians reported on the mainland.
the threat from the irish is greatly exaggerated, i'm sure.
i'll decide when it's exaggerated.
hey, barney.
mr brown, sir --
it's cold out there tonight, barney.
yeah, there's a good girl.  have you had a look at this hoof?  she was limping badly.  i think there might be a stone in it.
yeah, yeah, i did.
good man.  and is she all right?
yeah.
good.  she's a good girl.  aren't you? yeah, she's a lovely girl.  and you know the queen's riding tomorrow?
yeah.
are you all right, barney?
well?
mr brown is unable to attend today.
why?
i believe he is unwell, ma'am.
unwell?
i understand he was in a fight.
has he been hurt?
i believe not, ma'am.  i understand -- he'd had rather too much to drink.
and she sent no word down?
they said you were drunk.  why don't you tell her the truth?
she'll think it's her fault for keeping me.
what are you doing?!
i'm getting dressed.
you've got three broken ribs, man!
i've got my duties to attend to.
don't be an idiot!  you're in no fit state to go anywhere.
she'll be worried about me.
she'll get over it.
i can't let her down now, archie.
and when was the last time she put herself out for you?  look, john, whatever she says to you now, in the end you're still a servant.
oh, i'm much more than that.
aye, she may say that to you, but the woman can say what she wants.
you watch your tongue.
come on, man, i'm telling you what you already know.
you know nothing about her!
when are you gonna see it, john?  she doesn't give a damn about you.
my lips may give a message better of christmas love than e'en this letter.  to my best friend, j.b. from his best friend, v.r.  best friend!
aye.
she means it.
she'll drop you.  when she's done with you, she'll drop you.
get out.  out!
there is one other matter.
what is it?
i have a letter, ma'am.
from whom?
from princess helena and other members of your family.
my family is quite capable of communicating with the queen in person.
what do they want?
they are demanding the dismissal of john brown on grounds of drunkeness.
ma'am?
please tell the princess, and other signatories to this letter, that the queen will not be dictated to, or made to alter, in any way, what she has found to answer for her comfort.  do i make myself clear?
ma'am.
john?
yes, ma'am?
i was told you were in a fight.
yes, ma'am.
has someone seen to those bruises?
yes, ma'am.
ma'am?
yes?
having considered my position here at court, i have come to the conclusion that it is in the best interest of your majesty that i should resign.
i do not accept.
i had foreseen that you would not. but your majesty should understand -- that my mind will not be changed in this.  i leave for deeside --
the queen forbids it.  i cannot allow it because i cannot live without you.  without you, i cannot find the strength to be who i must be.  please.
your majesty remains at the very epicenter of governance.  as for your people, look no further than the sales of your highland journals to see in what affection the nation holds their queen.  you sell even more copies than mr dickens.
but i lack your prose, mr disraeli.
then they may read about me.
indeed, and for that they are eternally grateful.
is that not enough?
in so many ways ... and yet it is your presence they crave.  a figurehead.
i never thought to be bullied by you, mr disraeli.  you, i thought, understood a widow's grief.
forgive me, ma'am, i cannot speak for the nation, only for myself.  as prime minister i confess i miss your presence, but that is only an expression of my own selfish desires and i should not burden you with it.
i stay here because i am happy.  is that such a terrible crime?
no, ma'am.
this is my good john brown.
yes.
i have asked him to show you a little of highland life while you are with us at balmoral.
what brings you here?
a man can refuse only so many invitations from his queen.  it was remiss of me not to come earlier.
what do you know about the highlands?
i am a blank sheet.
do you hunt?
occasionally.
dare say you can be taught.
to shoot perhaps, but not to kill.
if you hunt, you kill.
always remember, you keep it tight to your shoulder, you absorb the kick. aim for the head.  then imagine it's gladstone.
quite.
checked and locked, sir.
louder, girl!
checked and locked, sir.
kitchen and lower house.
checked and locked, sir.
back and upper corridors.
what's this?
it's a diary.
be careful who sees it.
what do you take me for?
you should have someone look after you.
i'm all right.  i just need to rest up a wee bit.  the room ... you don't have to stay.
the place is a mess.
i can't move to tidy.
it's what the maids are for.
i'm not having some prattler going through my things.
won't you give yourself a rest, john? she's other people to look out for her.
she needs me, archie.  she canna do without me, she said it to my face.  how can i stop now?
you sent for me.
i've been called back to london.  my last day.  i thought i might take a walk on lochnagar.
princes and lords are but the breath of kings, an honest man's the noblest work of god.  you must miss such magnificent views.
i don't think about it.
forgive me, i've called you out and you should have been resting.
i'm fine.
you're injured.
it's nothing.
still, someone must attend you.  your wife should not have let you out.
i'm not married.
oh.
this is the top.
the look on their faces when one walks into the room.  still gives one a ridiculous thrill.
i wouldn't know.
surely --
what i do, i do for my queen.
was there never ambition?
maybe, once.
then i envy yo.
why?
to have achieved one's ambition, or to have reconciled oneself to its limits, is a lifetime's work.
i do what i do.
for her majesty.
aye.
but yourself?  what about john brown?
i said.  i serve the queen.
no other aspiration?
you will not be unaware of the threat now posed by republicanism.
why do you think i keep her here?
ah, but therein lies the paradox.  it is her very isolation that encourages the malcontents.  the longer she is away, the stronger they become; and who, honestly, can promise security against that?  however many doors you lock, someone will always get in. even here.
so...?
the truth is, the queen would be safer doing her duty and returning south to her public.  john bull loves her and john bull is her best defense.
her mind is set.  she won't change now.
she trusts you, john.
they don't see it.
see what?
the threat.  i tell them, but they don't see it.
they aren't as watchful as you.
too busy looking after themselves.
the greasy pole.
no loyalty.
no love.
i promised to protect her from people like you.
for once in my life, i am not the issue.
she'll never understand it.
in time, she will.
she'll think i betrayed her.
but others will know that you acted for the greater good.
duty?!  you talk about duty?!
if duty and safety are served by the same end then, aye, i do.
i cannot believe you are saying this? you, who i have relied on all this time --
have i ever let you down before--?
-- you stand there and tell me it is my duty ... after all you promised me!
i'm breaking no promises!
you are forcing me to do the very thing you know i fear most!
for god's sake, woman, i'm just trying to keep you safe!
i will not hear any more about my safety!!  you made me a promise and now you have broken it!
-- when i took you out riding, come rain or shine, because i knew it was right for you, when i kept the bairns off your back so you could have a bit of peace, when i saw you safe from home to home and you didn't even know i was there...!  all i've ever thought about is you!
then why send me back to them?!
because i have to!
where is my son?
prince albert is at windsor, ma'am.
why is he not here?
he is sick, ma'am.
then why are you not with him?
you ordered all members of the royal family to attend you at balmoral.
what is the matter with him?
he has typhoid fever, ma'am.
no.  you are mistaken.  prince albert, my husband, had typhoid fever.  i asked what was wrong with my son.
the same, your majesty.
why was i not informed?
i did not consider it wise, in the circumstances, to tax your nerves.
how ill is he?
the queen will be riding to st. george's on the fifth.
i recommend her majesty uses the covered carriage with a full horse guard.  in the event of any disturbance i will ensure --
how long has he been this sick?
a few days, ma'am.
why was i not told earlier?
you should never have gone out in such foul weather.
someone has to look after you.  it could've been someone.  it was before.
yes.  yes it was.
erysipelas.
not too protracted, i hope.
a few days...  when he heard, the prince of wales threw the bust from the window of the royal gallery.  it took four hours to gather the fragments.
the queen wishes to publish an account of him.
dear oh dear.
we think she can be dissuaded.  have you had a glance at the diary?
yes.
quite.  i think i'd best take it back.
of course.
where did you find it by the way?
some young page was boasting about having seen it.  lucky.
well, no rest for the wicked, henry.
no, indeed.
