i did not think he would make it past scraps.
let's just see if he can make it into round two....
don't.
what ?
do not eat at the console.
what ? are you my mother ?
it is my control board and i do not want it acting squirrelly because you dropped a few crumbs into the keyboard, no put the shit away.
yes, sir mom.
never underestimate a man who cheats on his taxes. his file says he is an avid jogger.
you have got to be kidding me ! his lazy ass could not win the special olympics.
he will never get it right. try the log ride !
not yet.
but, he's...
i said no.
stop the hydraulics.
got it.
is that it ?
yeah, I would say that is it.
he has a phone pole sticking in his chest, i think we do not need an autopsy.
I am just looking for our best interests. may i have the tapes, bruce ?
does not it bother you to see this kind of brutal death ? i mean , i can understand the old man's infatuation with the stuff, but not you.
I am an investment banker. i see blood bathes everyday. besides, mine is not to question why, min is but to do or die.
no one has a gun to your head.
johnny, let's get the cleanup started.
you have got it boss. one more mangled body to the east river, coming up !
good morning.
good morning.
did you see what the first bank stock opened at ? very impressive.
actually it is down .2 from the last quarters highest, but i think it will pick up.
i am equally impressed with your knowledge of the market. how long have you been with the company now ?
four years. i came over from the capitol merger in chicago six months ago.
were you involved in the incident where that guy killed himself in his office ?  i am sorry. perhaps we should have dinner tonight to.... discuss your future.
good golly miss molly you are looking good today !
thank you.
i meant him.
just look at this tie. you could fry an egg off that orange, yow. have you ever considered the jerry garcia line of ties ?
excuse me, gentlemen
well ?
fire the whole division.
excuse me, sir ?
fire the whole division. we are moving more of the operations division into manhattan anyway. whoever is left over from the conversion is no longer needed. we already have all the key people here. anyone else is expendable.
sir, i came from the chicago offices myself, and if i may say, sir, there are still some very good....
if you want, i can fire you and have someone else who has the balls terminate these worthless people. which will it be ?
we will start work on it now sir.
we start with the top and work our way down. we start with the high salaries and then just let the little people go. no need to make the blue collars go crazy.
i disagree. i think we should start looking into the severance pay schedules and make sure the people with families can.....
look, miss. i know you are still upset about that incident in chicago, but understand, this is a cut throat business. we do not have time to play nursemaid to every single tom dick and harry.
maybe we should make the time. especially considering the sixteen million dollars we have set aside expressly to settle law suits from these very events.
zachory ! my boy, how goes the carnage down on 44 ?
not that well sir. i believe we have a few too many soft hearts in the building. did we aquire a bank from chicago or a charity ?
relax, son. they will learn in time that you do not fuck with first bank. this is the real deal and we aim to keep it strong. my daddy always told me that only the strong survive.
i thought that was darwin, sir. or perhaps nietzsche ?
perhaps it was. i was in boarding school for so many years, it is hard to remember. do you have the tape of the latest exploits from my favorite hobby ?
yes sir, i do. last night's, fresh from the park.
i have to say, that i am glad you are such an amazing kiss ass.
thank you , sir. sir, may i ask you a question ?
of course.
while i am not morally against these little, shall we say "hobbies", as long as i am on the payroll, but why not something like a yacht club ?
zach, how old are you, son ?
i am thirty two.
and how much do we pay you annually ?
i make roughly four hundred thousand a year.
zach my boy, i can spend your yearly salary in a blink. i have had that kind of money all of my life. if i wanted to, i could fly to paris for the afternoon.  my father formed this company over seventy years ago. when my brother became mentally challenged, it was put in my charge. now running a bank of this size is very stressful. i need to relax on what little down time i have. a yacht club will not quite make my blood pressure decline. understand ?
yes sir.
i have entrusted you with a great many things. in your tenure with this company you have seen and heard things that could upset the very economic world in which we live. i think this kind of loyalty should be rewarded.
thank you, sir.
thank you, sir. i was really hoping for shares, or possibly cash... but this, this is really personal.
son, let's watch the tape.
that was rather.... disappointing.
i had suggested that they tone down the program so that the "guests" might take longer to expire.
i want more action. i want to see more ingenuity than that. i want to see the injured man out wit the machines !
but sir, most of the people we are putting into the "park" are accountants that embezzle or investment bankers. they are not known for their physical or intellectual prowess.
i do not believe old bruce is having as much fun with this as he once did. he still insists on the "guests" being of the more nefarious type.
that is right, sir. he does a thorough background check and if he finds them to be criminal or guilty of embezzlement, then he will put them in the park. he has refused the last three suggested "guests".
what about that time when the mail room kid was accused of stealing and we put him in the "park" ? was not that a computer glitch ?
yes sir. it turns out we put an innocent man into the "park" and he was not the one who stole from the stamp machine. that is also about the time when bruce began refusing.
that mail room kid was the longest lasting "guest" yet ! maybe we can alter the computer records and make another "guest" from the more athletic of our staff.
bruce may still refuse. it is my belief that he is becoming more belligerent.
i propose we consider a hostile take over. perhaps old bruce is in need of a new job opportunity.
what do you mean sir ?
what if we were to put bruce into the park as a guest ?
sir ?
I will bet that would be the park run of the century !
sir, he created the park. he would know how to circumvent any of the traps.
I am willing to bet that even the creator can not out wit his creation.
what then sir ? what would we do with the park with out bruce ?
do you think the assistant, what is his name...
john, sir.
yes, do you think he would like a raise and a new position ?
sir, this is not like firing any employee. we can not predict what will happen.
that my boy, is the best part. life on top of the world is boring... predictable. if i wanted life without chances, i never would have paid for murderland. now go. make a formal proposal and see about the assistant. find out if it is viable.
come on, I am serious. look at wilma. she is this frail little thing, and fred, i mean fred flintstone is this big guy. he has to be hung like a horse, and that is why wilma puts up with his b.s.
I have never heard the flintstones reduced to a sexual exploitation quite like that. you are funny.
listen, i was thinking, you know. would you go, it is i think you're...
do you want to go out with me ?
it is sounds so much better when you say it. I am semi traditional here, and it is important that i ask. will you go out with me ?
yes.
really ? on a date ?
yes.
this is too easy, i mean i had a speech prepared, then i even wore these pants because i could get on my knees to grovel.
as appealing as that sounds...
dinner at my place then ? say, seven of the clock ?
sure.
hand me the 3/8ths.
here. am i ever going to get to run the controls for one these capers ?
when i think you are ready.
when will that be ?
when you are ready.
look, you are going to have to start trusting me sometime. i am a trustworthy person.
trust is earned not given away.
respect is earned not given away, trust is given away to anybody.
not down here. I will start trusting you when i feel there the time is right. it is not personal, it is just survival.
I have been working with you for four years, do not you think that is worthy of at least one turn at the controls ?
no.
i made my bones on the street, you know. i did riglioni in his own house. i was made in the family, okay.
and who bailed you out when a hit was put on you, you sorry sack of shit. who put you up ? who gave you a job ?
you did.
that is right. now who needs to trust who ? trust me, when you are ready to work the controls, I will put you in the hot seat.
hey, mr. executive. buy you a drink sailor ?
we have new "guests" for the park. i have a file on them. may i see bruce ?
he is been expecting you.
no. i was just curious if what i heard about you is true ?
what did you hear ?
only that you were one of the finest hit men in the mob. that if you wanted a good clean kill, that johnny tortelli was the man for the job.
i was.
might i ask why you no longer work for the mob ?
there was a bit of confusion on one of my last jobs.
i thought, and correct me if I am wrong, but were not you trying to play both sides ?
what are you looking for ? a blow job ?
no. i am not a homosexual.
then what do you want ?
have you ever considered running your own "park" ? i mean, since you will not be returning to your former profession.
i did not think even this company could afford to write off enough to build a new "park".
we can't.
are you happy with your salary and position ?
no i am not.
i had hoped you would say that. i have a proposal for you.....
I am listening.
good morning. what do you have today ?
i have an embezzler and his accomplice.
I will do the standard research and have them in by midnight, pending any unforseen problems.
good. nice to see you, bruce. johnny.
what is wrong ?
i just want to double check the facts.
i see here that this guy has made deposits into his own account for the last four months. each one in the amount of $100,000. he then puts in deposits into his girlfriends account.
so ?
he already had a balance of $600,000.
he probably has a history of this shit.
yeah, maybe.... let's start the background checks. let's see where they live and what kind of security systems....
matthew lives on the upper west side, kinda posh for a temp do not you think ?
any priors ? any police record ?
checking..... hah ! he has a shit load of unpaid parking tickets...
parking tickets ? that is it ?
yeah, but we are talking 43.
a real criminal.... i still think that is our in... what about her ?
checking........
hello.
hi. i brought some wine.
thank you, will not you come in ?
thanks.
what an incredible view !
thank you.
are you okay ?
yes, excuse me for a second.
you have a real nice place... how can you afford this working as a temp ?
well, i make good investments, i lead a double life as a secret agent.. i....i ... i have very rich parents. i have always had a lot of money.
if they are so rich, why are you working at all ?
i just want to have something that is mine, you know ? it is like living off of their money is fun and all. there are certain materialistic needs that i have that can only be satisfied with that extra little scratch.
like what, a porsche ? a ferrari ?
would that impress you ? i mean you are the kinda woman that probably has ferrari written all over your personal ad.
actually, I am more interested in the man behind the wheel more than the manufacturer. so what is it that you have that makes you a materialistic fool ?
my own sit down star wars arcade game. wanna play it ?
okay, now go under go under it ! shoot vader's tie fighter ! get him get him !
yahoo !!!!!
are you matthew parker ?
yes, can i help you ? maybe a donut or something ?
that is very funny, sir. you are under arrest.
hey , hey !
you have 43 unpaid parking tickets, sir. you have the right to remain silent, anything you say can & will be held.....
what is going on ?
please do not be alarmed, ma'am.
kojak here is arresting me for unpaid parking tickets.
43 unpaid parking tickets, sir.
so who are these people with the boss ?
just a temp who pissed me off and a girl who turned me down for the night of her life.
are not you the bitter one.
how long till the drug wears off ?
we should have another fifteen minutes at least.
bruce has just awaken.
what ?????
where are we ?
no time. get him up.
not now, mom.
wake up, we are in trouble.
hey... did we uhm, you know....
no ! just get up. this is serious.
hey, you ! what the hell is going on ?
what the hell kind of cop are you ?
what is bruce doing ?
i do not know.....
what was that ?
he must have had a gun stashed. god damn it !
we can not afford too many surprises.
he will never make it out of the park alive. i promise you that....
no. don't. you will get a shock from hell if you touch that seat.
who are you anyway ? what the hell is this ?
just shut the fuck up.
i think we should follow him...
i just need to sit and think for a second.
ouch !!! goddammit that hurts !!!!
i told him not to sit down in there.....
are you okay ?
fine, fine, i feel like a chicken mcnugget.
the roof is coming down.... hey, you.... which door gets us out of here ??
which one, this door is locked !
no ! do not open any of them ! they are all wrong. just wait.
wait for what ? i do not wanna alarm you but we will be the special at the international house of pancakes in about five minutes !
trust me, if you open any door, you will be dead a whole lot sooner.
why should we trust you ?
i made this place..... now listen to me. I will get out of this room, we have bigger troubles than this....
will he make it out ?
of course, this one's a gimme. just be patient, even old bruce can not outwit some of these traps.
okay, now I am worried. what exactly is on the other side of the door ?
either you will be shot with bullets, impaled with a large spike, or nailed like a super model. basically you are fucked any way you go.
and that is different than this because...... ?
what about matt ?
leave him, he is dead.
no !
hey buddy, thanks for the help back there !
i do not help criminals.
what is next ?
i have a turn for the worse for the team !
i do believe mr. mccray will be most pleased with the tape of this one.
I am talking to you asshole !
maybe all that testosterone plugs his ears.
give me one good reason why i do not plug you right here, right now ?
because of my charming personality ?
why do not you tell us what the fuck is going on ?
why should i ?
you said we were criminals, what did you mean ?
you are both embezzling. i saw the records.
embezzling ? I am not embezzling !
maybe not, but he is and fucking him makes you an accessory. he stole your passwords.
I am not fucking him..
you do not have to sound so emphatic.
we just having our first date when you showed up.
is it over ?
not quite....
that is it folks for the demon boat ride.... everybody off. watch your hands and feet.
where is the dock ?
that is nice.  i think i lost my wallet.
I would get out of the water if i were you.
why ?
and now ladies and gentlemen it is time for the fabulous crocodile show !
great ! you could not be a fan of dolphins or some other less threatening animal.
I have got five bucks that says someone dies here and now.
I will see that bet.
now where do we go ?
i do not know.
i thought you made this place ?
i did, but this room has four exits and only one opens, it is up to them in the control room. there is one right over there. the exit light is on, but he can change it.
are not you going to switch exits on him again ?
why ? the crocks are all going for the dead crock. there is no fun in it. besides we have got plenty more for them. the night is young....
what is next walt ?
a dragon.
so what happened ? did you have a real bad theme park experience as a kid and this is your revenge ?
be very, very quiet...
are you hunting wabbits ?
the room has sound sensors. if you wake it up, it breathes fire.
you were one of those guys that played dungeons & dragons with real swords, were not you.
how do we get out of this room ?
we wait. this is an elevator.
an elevator ?
yeah, we are about a hundred an fifty feet below the subway stations. we are heading a little higher up now.
how is your foot ?
"how's your foot" ? this guy tried to kill us and he put us in this place, and you want to know how his foot is ?
it is fine thanks.
why do not you tell us a little about yourself ?
look pipsqueak, I am having a real bad day here and we are just starting.
now what the hell are we supposed to do ?
we have to climb up that.
that is not to tough.
look...
there is enough force to push you twenty feet in the air. it will not kill you, but it will hurt.
you have issues. i mean you have some serious issues that need to be ironed out.
issues ??? this guy has the damn subscription to every psychotic issue I have ever heard of.
that is cute asshole.
hey, try swimming. it works.
what the fuck are you talking about.
swimming, you know, like in water, moron.
come on, it works.
give me a fucking.....
you okay ?
ow...
this probably is not the bet time, but i really have to pee. can i pee ?
knock yourself out.
thanks...
maybe you should get over fears.
well, mr. parker it seems that your is not the wardrobe of choice tonight. I am quite confident that my tie is looking better than yours.
so where does this lead ?
no where. we have got about seven minutes before this thing slams into a concrete wall.
so what do we do ?
I am working on it.
who the hell are you anyway ? what is this place ?
it is called murderland. it is paid for by first bank.
first bank ? but how ?
it is a tax write off for john c. mccay.
mccay knows ?
knows ? he watches every "guest" on tape. this whole place is here for his sick amusement. and no so are we.
look he figured it out !
i can see your small business ! look at it it is so small.
what are you doing ?
I am leaving.
look ! look !
shit, i forgot about them. well, i guess the boss man was not as tough as i thought.
i do not know. maybe we should watch the tape to be sure.
you are paying the bills.
hey ! hey ! I am talking to you !
what ?
you took an awful big risk back there.
look i do not even wanna know how i got in this mess. i just want out. it has nothing to do with me.
if you had not started boffing that weasel with an attitude, you would not be here.
I am not boffing matthew !
then you did not give him any passwords of any kind ?
no ! i would not do that.
then he is not embezzling either is he ?
why would he ? his parents are rich.
so many tubes to get in, only one is the way out.
great.. great. is there any kind of hint or anything ?
pick with expediency !
so you are telling me you were set up ? i knew something was wrong.
I am not listening.
hey ! I am still your best chance to get out of here alive.
you have been doing a bang up job so far. right now matt is probably dead and it is your fault.
zachary.
zach, my boy ! how is tonights adventure going ?
good, sir.
is it as good as i hope it is ?
better, sir.
one moment dear...
sir ?
not you zach.  remember, my wife is asleep upstairs, dear.  zach, am i going to like what i see on this tape ? is it the grandest of all the park's tapes ?
yes sir. it will be the best of your collection, i assure you.
fantastic ! a little faster sweetheart.
sir ? we are moving them right along as fast as we can.
have that tape on my desk tomorrow morning.  first.... thing...
was that the old man ?
yes. i think he is feeling sick or something.
there ! there ! did you see ! they are still alive !
i can see that but where ?
it will not take them that long to figure out we were not on the train when it wrecked.
not listening !
look, there is another train. they will send it through here. you are fucked if you do not stop and listen to me.
I am listening.
at the subway station, we can get into a power duct that my little shit head of an assistant does not know about.
what is the trick here ?
we drown.
obviously, but what is the way out ?
once the room depletes it is oxygen, we have about 30 seconds, then a door opens on the bottom over there. then we swim out.
how long till the room fills ?
I would say about thirty to forty minutes. give or take a few.
so why this ?
excuse me ?
why did you build this whole place ?
is this really the time ?
do you have something better to talk about ?
i just graduated from m.i.t. in engineering. that is when john mccay hired me.
he hired you to build this place ?
i was hired in and started to do the boring old work routine. i was originally brought in as a technical advisor. first bank had sponsored my scholarships.
i was lured by all the money and i truly did convince myself that what i did was for justice. since then, mccay has wanted to put anyone he can down here.
but how do you know if the people are guilty ?
i do a very thorough background check. i go through police files, personel files, anything.
then how come matt and i showed up as guilty ?
it was there, clear as day. i saw the computer records. matthew has been fed wiring money to his personal account.  i just knew something was wrong.
so you may have been duped this whole time. killing innocent people, that must make you feel ..., how does it feel ?
there are other things too. they had everyone start taking those psych tests. did they make you take one ?
yeah, everyone has to when they get hired.
there is more to it than trying to see if you would steal from the company or if you would lie or cheat.
what do you mean ?
mccay had a lot money done into researching psychological reactions to questions that are seemingly unrelated, but reveal everything. like criminal impulses, homicidal impulses.....
and you believe that ?
I have since changed my mind. i designed this place, based on my belief that i was doing what the legal system could not or would not do. mccay had the company buy the property and they pay the bills. it is a tax write off. on the books everything looks kosher. i have an office on 5th that i have not seen in ten years.
does not anyone notice all the people missing ?
this is new york. no one notices anyone. not even when someone disappears. at first it was the guy who was caught trying to steal mccay's jag. then it was dirty accountants that tried to walk away with millions. the old man got such a rush from it, i thought that he would start trying to send me people who used the copier after hours.
how can you just take a life ? i mean it is a life, life is so precious.  how does it feel ?
what do you do with the company, if i might ask ?
I am in charge of the conversions.  when first bank buys another smaller bank, I am in charge of converting them to our systems and way of doing things.
i... i .....
you did not think about it did you ? i read your file. it said you had a nervous breakdown.
i wanted to let his family know....
know what ? that it was your fault ?
it was not my fault. i was just part of a team. i was doing my job...
so was i. so do not give me any shit. your business is just as bad. at least I am up front about it. you kill people slowly. your corporate take overs can decimate a families livelihood over a year sometimes two. now you know how it feels.
that is repugnant. you have the habits of a goat.
<<belch>>
ach ! how will you know if they have made it ?
the room will fill to the top, then if they wind up in the next room, they lived, if not, they are dead.
just remember, hold your breath as long as you can. then go right over to that corner. the door will open and go in and up.
okay.
you okay ?
fine...
thank you very much.
goddamn it bruce, you have cost me about thirty dollars so far.
why do not you just stop fucking around and just die !
I am sick of playing. I have got a better idea.
if we can get to through the next room, we will be at a junction for a power grid.
let's go.
this is cute.
yeah, real cute. the storm is fake, but the lightening is real.
okay mr inventor, how do we avoid it ?
you don't. it is random, there no trick.
great...
okay, i have five that says this is it for them.
i think I will see hat action.
where are we going ?
the brooklyn bridge.
so what is next ? no one's ever made it this far before.
he is got two chices.either it is the bowling alley from hell or alice in murderland. see this ? even bruce knows that no one can make it out of here in one piece.
you must come in first place to move on !
jesus, my legs are asleep. I will never be able to win this shit.
i do not get it.
it is poison gas, this is the antidote. drink it.
what the ... ?
what happened ?
the power went out in half the park.
how can this happen ?
i do not know. i think that a power grid just needs reset. do not get your panties in a bunch. I will go down and reset it.
go in there ? what if bruce finds you ?
yeah, right. he is stuck all the way over here
do you know where you are going ?
yes.
what was that ?
girder, watch your head.
jesus christ ! I am just a temp for christ sakes !
shut up ! it is me.
i think I am very quickly getting over my phobia of public urination.
what ?
nothing.
is it over ?
almost. look, you two get out of here.
where ?
in the jail cell is a spiral staircase. it leads to the surface. take it all the way up.
what about you ?
there is one more person here for me to visit.
it is that asshole zach is not it ?
zach from work ?
he is the liaison for mccay. listen go. go now.
do not have to tell me twice.
just stop it. end it here.
it will end. it will end with him and mccay. then the park shuts down. permanently.
are you okay ? any holes ? i mean aside from the one's that nature gave you ?
I am fine.
you think I am that easy, bitch ?
for once in your life, shut the fuck up.
hey matty, do not wait for me or anything.
i was thinking maybe we should try this dinner thing again, but maybe the epcot version will be open by then....
sweet jesus i never dreamed I would be glad to see central park at night.
we made it !
what now ?
i want to go to sleep for about a month.
no, idiot. where do we go now ?
where are we ?
thanks a lot. i always wanted to know what it was like to see my life flash before my eyes for the one hundredth time tonight.
come to the rescue again i see.
he was right behind me !
who was that guy anyway ?
hey good lookin' ! what'cha got cookin' ?
hey buddy. you okay ?
of course i am. i feel the testosterone coursing through my veins.  now that I have gotten the stitches removed from my arm and the chiropractor fixed my back.
ow. son of a .....  did i ever tell you my theory on star wars as porn ?
no.
well, i think if you take several lines out of context, star wars becomes a very sexual movie. i mean listen to this.  "luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time ?" or "you came in that thing ? you are braver than i thought".
no sir. i was just getting , well you know. water. we were not talking about sex or anything else except star wars. just saying hello. i think I am going to go now.
why do not you shut up now.
I am going to go ahead and go now.
what are you doing here ?
i work here, remember ?
that was eleven years ago.
well, surprise, surprise, I have been on the payroll for several years now. i still have an office and secretary. no one even batted an eyelash. do you realize what the high turnover is in a multi corporation bank in new york ?
apparently pretty high, we just got a new ceo last week.
that is a shame.
yeah a real shame.
well, I will see you at the next staff party.
bye....
