i was born jaundiced. once i sat on a toilet seat at a truck stop and caught hemorrhoids. and I have learned to live with this chicken bone that is been lodged in my throat for the past three years, so i knew dad would be devastated when he learned of my latest affliction.  dad, i do not wanna upset you, but my left breast is developing at a significantly faster rate than my right. it can only mean one thing.  cancer.  I am dying.
o.k. sweetie, hand me the mayonnaise out of the fridge.
i knew he would not come.
i can't, i have to go home.
yeah, to play with his dolls.
leave him alone! come on, let's go.
hey, you did not pay me!
how do i know you were gonna show us one?
you are such a baby.
all right, here.
of what??
well, sometimes when we get 'em, they are not completely dead, you know, like when they cut a chickens head off and it still runs around crazy.
ahem.
vada, just put 'em on the stool.
daddy guess what i beat thomas j in monopoly yesterday.
ya, that rack holds six ties.
arthur!!
vada!!
i beat thomas j in monopoly yesterday.
good for you baby.
once you put the hotels on board walk and park place he puts a shoe in your way.
i like to buy off all the railroads.
vada, we are trying to work here.
cruella deville stole all the puppies, she was going to make a fur out of 'em!
hand me the canula.
vada!
dad?
I am embalming my high school teacher, do not sing.  all right arthur, just a slide of the needle.....
it is still available i hope?
i think it is still available.
I am a licensed cosmetologist, i worked for two years, at the &quot;dino raphael&quot; salon, all my customers cried when i told them i was leaving.
uhh, miss devoto...
i have a wonderful disposition, i put people right at ease.
uhh, miss devoto, these people are already at ease. this is not a beauty parlor, it is a funeral parlor.
they are dead?
yes they are.
stiffs??
deceased.
the add just said &quot;makeup artist&quot;
is that your camper?
yes it is.
that is really cool.
she is shy.
oh.
daddy, how come that coffin's so small?
they come in all sizes honey, just like shoes.
is it for a child?
of course not.
then who is it for?
excuse me, what about the job?
pardon?
i need the job.
oh, you still want it? even though uhh...
ohh, oh sure it is no big deal, you see all my former clients will eventually die, and all your clients used to be alive, so they have something in common.
you would be doing hair and makeup and answering the phone.
okay mr. sultenfuss, you got a deal.
great, you can start right away. call me harry. now, umm, is this what you would normally wear for work? do not get me wrong, i like it, very much, but the....
i promise I will take good care of these people, they deserve it, they are dead, all they have got left is their looks.
hey look at this, no feet!
oh wow, a real evil canieval.
you are perfectly healthy.
that can not be, i have all the classic symptoms.
sweetheart, did they bring mr. layton to your house today?
yes.
vada you have got to stop this, there is absolutely nothing wrong with you!
at what?
that is mr. bixler, let's go talk to him.
i do not wanna talk to a teacher, it is summer!
hi mr. bixler!
mademoiselle sultenfuss and the amazing dr. j! how is the summer treating you?
it is okay. mr. bixler, i finished all the books for summer reading.
really? already? the summer's just begun.
yes, and now I am reading war &amp; peace for fun.
no wonder you are my prize pupil. what about you thomas j?
mr. bixler, how come you are painting this old house?
well i just bought it, now I am fixing it up.
this is one big house for one single person.
well, you never can tell...  i might get a pet.
how are you going to get the money for this old house if you are not working?
well I am going to teach creative writing this summer, so, I am doing some work.
how much does it cost?
thirty five dollars.
what do you get for that?
me, two hours a week, talking about poetry. this an interrogation vada?
no. well, guess I will go home and finish off war &amp; peace.
it is summer! you are kids! go play!
no, I am going home.
why? it is not dinner time yet.
dinner time?? you are like a dog! you just go home to eat.
who is winning?
i am.
you know vada, you should not let those girls upset you.
I am not upset. i will never play with those girls. i only surround myself with people who i find intellectually stimulating.
thomas j?
I am allergic to it.
to chocolate?
he is allergic to everything.
chocolate?
ooh, that is a pretty ring you are wearing.
it is a mood ring, it tells what mood I am in.
it does not work, it always stays black.
it is only black when you are around 'cause you put me in a bad mood.
maybe black means you are happy?
i do not think so.  shelly, how can i get thirty five dollars?
she is crazy, she wants to go to school over the summer.
it is not a real school, it is a writing class, i wanna be a writer.
she only wants to do it because her sweetie pie's the teacher.
shut your big fat mouth!
i think you would make a fine writer, did you ask your dad?
he will not give it to me.
well you do not know that. ask him.
daddy, can i have thirty five dollars?
that is a lot of money for a little girl.
it is for school, for summer writing class.
any more soda left?
shelly thinks I would be a good writer.
last month you wanted to play the violin. then you wanted to be a ventriloquist.
dad?
i love this guy!
dad??
what?
the money?
ahh, maybe next summer.
wanna play?
no, i got to go to the cemetery, keep your head up. do not look at the ball, look at me.
vada? vada?? what happened??
my ball, i lost my ball.
come on sweetie.
uh huh?
could you take a look at mrs. porter?
yeah.
you do not like it?
this was the reverend porter's wife, you have her looking like a two dollar hooker.
i think she looks nice! her lips are very thin so i used the gloss to give them a more sensual quality, and her eyes just needed a little definition, and her hair, I am sorry, nobody wears this hairdo anymore in 1972.
she did. this photo was taken a month ago at the church food drive.
i just wanted to get past this &quot;old school marm&quot; image.
that was not an image. she was an old school marm.  fix it.
harry?  i was just wondering, if there is anything wrong with vada.
what do you mean??
well the other night at dinner...
oh that, she just likes to play.
i do not think so, i think she is confused about death.
she was raised in a funeral home, she knows a thing or two about it.
harry, i really think she.....
she is a perfectly happy eleven year old girl, look, do not give me any advice about my daughter, okay?
hi.
can we look around in your camper?
sure. I will give you the royal tour.
wow, this is the coolest thing, like you really eat and sleep here?
uh huh.
I am going to drive us to liverpool.
liverpool?
big ringo fan.
ohh, right. would you like a soda?
i would.
thomas?
did you read all these books?
uh huh.
what are they about?
mostly love, and romance.
eeeeuuuww, gross.
they are just fun to read.
are you married?
no, I am divorced.
daddy said it is bad when people get divorced.
well, sometimes married people just find out they can not live with each other.
well, i guess you found my secret hiding place.
what are you saving for?
nothing in particular, just putting it away for a rainy day.
bye. well miss vada, what d'you say we head back?
can i use your bathroom first?
sure.
you do not have to wait, daddy'll be mad if you are late.
okay.
i paid the money.
for this class?
uh huh, i wanna be a writer.
vada, this is an adult writing class.
uhhh, va, uhh, vada.
i wrote a poem too.
please.
loads of ice-cream by vada sultenfuss i like ice-cream a whole lot, it tastes good when days are hot, on a cone or in a dish, this would be my only wish, vanilla, chocolate or rocky road, even with pie a la mode.
can not do without, harry's wild about me.
excuse me harry, I am sorry, i just wanna let you know that the flowers were delivered. and the room's all set up.
thanks, listen i wanna apologize for the other day downstairs, about vada, i was a little harsh.
i should not stick my nose in other people's business. it is just that i like vada, very much.
after my wife died, grammoo moved in here to help take care of vada. they were very close, but lately as her mind's been wandering more and more, vada's been acting kinda crazy. I am sure she will snap out of it though.
I am sure she will.
maybe they had a big breakfast.
I am going to be an acrobat when i grow up.
big deal, i can do that too.  thomas j, you got something!
oh no!  uuh.
hurry!
I am trying.
reel it in.  he is only tiny, throw him back.
i do not like touching fish, how do you pull the hook out without touching it?
yeah he got away. come on let's go.
hey, we can become blood brothers.
naah, i do not wanna.
you could pick that scab on your arm.
it is a mosquito bite.
it will bleed.
if i do it, can we go?
uh huh.
okay, ow!
hi.
oh hi, what can i do for you?
nothing, i was just wondering what you were doing.
oh, I am just typing up a funeral notice, you know when someone dies people want it in the paper usually, it is a service we provide for the family.
oh right, right, . bader lorenzo died june 22 1972 devoted husband to nicolette. cherished father of babritzio and heidi, in lieu of flowers, please send donations to the holy names society.
i wrote that.
no kidding?
oh it is good, &quot;in lieu of&quot; i love that word lieu.
i prefer it to &quot;instead&quot;, it has more dignity.
in lieu... &quot;instead&quot;.... no contest.
it is no big deal.
you have to learn how to take a complement.  movies, movies, ahhhh, &quot;love story&quot; at the drive in, i cried my eyes out, did you see it?
i have not been to the movies in ages.
i love going to movies, especially at the drive in. i do not think there is anything more romantic than going to the drive in.  I will let you get back to work.
i do enjoy playing bingo, if you would like to join me for a game tomorrow night at church you are welcome to.
okay.
are you going out somewhere?
no.
so how come you are putting lipstick on?
a girl's always got to look her best.
i think lipstick looks fake, no-ones lips are that color.
have you ever tried any?
no.
come here, sit down.
shelly, do you think I am pretty?
yes, vada i think you are very pretty. you have got these great big sparkling eyes, the cutest little nose, an amazing mouth.
the boys at school do not think i am.
they will come around. close your eyes, i wanna bring out the gorgeous color in them. the first rule in applying eye makeup, is you can never wear enough blue eye shadow.
do you like putting makeup on people?
uh huh, I have been trying to get out to hollywood for years to do makeup for all the stars, i have not gotten there yet.  all right, open your eyes.
your lip bleeding?
no.
what is wrong with your eyes?
a girl can never wear enough eye shadow.
where is your bike?
oh, in the garage. walk me over.
hey look at this!
that was grammoo's. it is a phrenology chart, they used to study the bumps in your head to see if you had a good personality or not. come here, I will diagnose your head.
no, i do not wanna.
come on, it is fun.
hmmmm, interesting.
what?
you have no personality.
hey, where does it say that?
never mind.
is that your dad?
yes.
who is that with your dad?
it is my mother.
do you remember her?
no. grammoo said she is in heaven.
what do you think it is like?
what?
heaven.
i think, everybody gets their own white horse, and all they do is ride and eat marshmallows all day, and everybody's best friends with everybody else, when you play sports, there is no teams, so nobody gets picked last.
but, what if you are afraid to ride horses?
it does not matter, 'cause they are not regular horses, they got wings, and it is no big deal if you fall, you just land in cloud.
that does not sound so bad, come on, we will never find that streamer.
well well well, what is going on in here?
nothing, I am dressing.
oh, you are dressing, uh huh, harry harry harry harry, do not you know it is not nice to lie to your big brother?
oh yes, oh that is great.
I am very nervous.
why?
the last date i had was twenty years ago.
that is true. harry harry sit down, let me fill you in on today's women, since the last time you dated, something happened, &quot;the sexual revolution&quot;, now before that, you used to have to hold a door open for a woman, pull her chair out, pick up the check, no more no more, you wanna know what else is missing? bras!
oh come on.
harry, I am serious, trust me harry this woman's lifting us in, you got to treat her like every tom dick and harry.
are you sure about all this?
did you not tell vada I am a womanizer huh?
oh, I am running late. shelly'll be here any minute.
oh she is picking you up, good you are on the right track.
no, she is just driving over here, then we are taking my car. how do i look?
like a sultenfuss. go get 'em.
goodnight vada.
dad, why are you dressed up to go to bingo?
ahh, i just wanna look nice.
you never cared before.
well shelly's coming over, we are going to go together.
why?
she likes to play bingo.
can i go too?
naah, i think you would better stay here and keep grammoo company.
here.
do not do that!!
sorry.
what do you want? my mom will skin me alive if she finds I am out here.
let's go to the church, they are playing bingo tonight.
i told you I will get in trouble.
pacifist!
i am not.
bed wetter!
i stopped that!
does it make it easier to win?
no. just, more activity.
they are not going to let us in vada, we are kids.
we are not going to bet, we are just going to watch.
watch bingo? i do not even like to play bingo.
duck!
oh great!
hey there is your dad and shelly.
ssshhhhh, i do not want them to see me.
aarrggh.
i just had a terrible thought harry.
what is that?
I am going to be putting makeup on some of these people very soon.
why d'you think these seats were empty.
can we go yet?
go???
you know I am not allowed outside my myself after dark.
oh, I am just not lucky harry.
look, it is not always luck, i mean, depending upon the placement of the numbers, a guy with 10 cards could win just as easily as a guy with 100.
kinda like men.
oh, how do you mean?
you can be in a room with 100 men, and not like any of them, or you can be in a room with just one man, and he is exactly the one you want.
i had a good time tonight.
i have not had a bingo partner in ages.
would you like to come in and see my house? just for a minute.
okay, sure.
home sweet home.
it is nice.
i did it myself. i read a magazine article about how to maximize small spaces.
well it certainly looks bigger that it seems.
you can look in the bathroom if you want. people are always curious about that, like what happens when you flush.
yeah.
are you mad at me?
no, why?
i do not know, tonight you just seemed a little cool, not opening car doors and...
oh, that was phil, trying to give me advice on dating 70's women. look I am so out of touch, i have not dated women in ages, not since my wife died.
what happened to her?
ahh, complications during child birth, she died two days after vada was born.
did she ever see vada?
i brought the baby into the room a couple of times, she opened her eyes, yeah, yeah i think she saw vada. it was.....
dance with me?
here?
this is where we are.
is there enough room?
i have not danced in.....
in ages, i know, me neither.
rock?
see, you are not that out of touch.  you are good.
at widdman high i was considered a pretty hot date, i did a killer frugue.
what are you wearing?
old spice, phil says it is a timeless classic.
do you want to?
want to what?
kiss me.
yes.
good.
i ahh, better go.
it is only eight o'clock.
goodnight shelly.
goodnight.
I am tired of bingo, maybe we should try that drive in of yours.
goodnight.
hey, i thought i recognized you two, hi vada.
hi.
I am just picking some things up for the barbecue.
yeah, me too, mind if i tag along?
not at all. lot of potatoes!
it is for shelly's famous potato salad.
I am looking forward to that.
hey, ouch, damn it!! vada, watch what you are doing.
sorry.
you know this is gonna be my first 4th of july picnic in a long time.
really?
dad, did not you say you needed prunes real bad?
ahh, vada, just put anything you want in the cart, anything at all.  i do not know what is gotten into her today.
harry harry harry harry harry, i told you to use fewer briquettes and now look what you have done. you have cremated them.
that is what i do. do you wanna do it??
no, no no....
look if you think you know how, why do not you pre-measure the briquettes in little packages, put out a product, support me for a while!
how is it going chef?
okay.
are they ready yet?
no, sweetie, not yet.
when?
soon honey, soon.
when??
in a minute, look it is hot, sweetie you will burn your nose, look out.
rub a dub dub, thanks for the grub, yay god.
I will second that.
hey shelly, like seafood?
uh huh, why?
see food!
what am i doing here????? what am i doing here?
hi ralph. oh danny, how did you find me here?
you told everybody where you were going, I am here for the motor home.
I have been living in it for over a year, the camper is mine.
excuse me, mutual asset, that is what the lawyer said, it is supposed to be &quot;our mutual asset&quot;, not &quot;shelly's recreational vehicle&quot;. gimme the keys.
keep your voice down!
what?
the boss is watching us...
I am impressed.
god i guess I will have to introduce you now.
yeah, all right...
this is harry, phil, grammoo and vada sultenfuss...
vada sultenfuss?? tough break.
i like my name.
this is danny and ralph, they own the dino raphael salon in detroit.  we used to be married.
are you here to take shelly back?
uhh, it is nice to meet ya. uhh, we got burgers and hot dogs here if you would care to join us?
can not stay, I am just here because my wife.....
ex...ex, ex...
my __ex__ wife seems to have ripped off my camper.
shelly?
honestly harry, he got the mustang, i promise.....
danny?
what?
okay, i know you have suffered a terrible loss, and there is really nothing anyone can do to comfort you, but i urge you to focus on the times you had with the camper, the trips you took, the sights you saw, those days are gone now, but they will live on in your heart forever.
this guy bonking you?
danny that is a real _bonehead_ thing to say!
look, you are not going to take shelly's camper.
oh.. oh.. oh no?? oh?
it is her home! it is where she lives!!
oh really, okay fine look, go cook,  gimme the goddam keys.
well, you were pretty great!
is it really your camper?
can we see it from the back yard?
you can get the general idea...
yep, there they are... they always look the same every year...
pointing upwards look...
did you ahh, love him?
i would never marry anybody i did not love.
he must like shelly, i never saw him hit anyone in his life.
he likes her.
does he love her?
probably.
do you like her?
yes i do, and i think she is very good for your father.
why?
after your mother died, he was sad all the time, but before that, he was pretty funny.
really?
now when i see him with shelly, sometimes he seems like the old harry.
my dad was funny?
well he was not one of the marx brothers, but he made me laugh.
can not you see it?
no.
it is there.
vada there is no chicken bone stuck in your throat.
so you fill it with water like this, and what have you got? a water gun.
cool, can i get one for vada?
oh yes, yes.
cause she is dying.
do you think she is?
no.
why do you think she says that?
cause she gets scared of all those dead people in her house, and you know that saying, if you can not beat 'em, join 'em, well if she is one of them, she will not be as scared.
you know what i think? i think vada's very lucky to have a friend like you.
hey vada, guess what we got?
what?
this!!
hey you!!!!  I am going to get you!!!  I will get you!!!!
woah!!
what?
pointing there is a beehive right there!
so?
stand back.
are you crazy, you will get stung!!
you are right, let's knock it down.
what do you want it for anyway?
for their meat.
got it!
my mood ring! it fell off! i gotta find it!
run faster they are after us!!
i am running faster!!
hurry!!!
jump in the water!!
but i have my clothes on!
do it!
yes..
hey guess what? we are going to the carnival tonight, be ready to go in 10 minutes.
i like the freak show.
i know, i know, let's go on the &quot;sit on the bench and rest&quot; ride.
i do not think that that roller coaster agreed with your bad stomach. you know vada you have to watch what you eat here, i remember one time i went to a carnival with my cousins david and frank, and they both ate hot dogs, and the next day they came down with nephritis.
nephritis? it is a kidney disease, you do not get it from hot dogs.
well, I am no doctor. all i know is, the next day they had really high fevers, and their faces got very fat. they baffled medical science, they were in a magazine.
watch you do not knock out a fish.
perfect.
i do not know which ball's mine.
i won, i won!!!
oh great!!
we are having the wedding sometime near the end of the summer.
not acknowledging harry's comment you will be okay little fish.
vada? would you like us to get you another goldfish?
no!, he is fine.  fish are very resilient animals you know. do not worry, i will not get another fish.
i fall asleep at the wheel.
I will ride on the bumper cars with you!
no!
yes!!
hi vada.
hi, wanna ride bikes?
sure.
come on, let's go.
bye mrs. sennett.
bye ma.
california, I am going to hollywood to live with the brady bunch.
i wanna live with them too.
no, you can't, they have enough kids, you will have to live with the partridge family.
really?
get up!?
I am tired of running away. besides, we past this place two times already. we are not getting nowhere.
why are you running away?
my dad gave shelly a ring.
wow, was it a decoder ring?
you are such a retard, it was an engagement ring.
they are getting married?
so now you will have a mother.
i do not like her.
i do, she is real funny.
he likes her better than me.
I am hungry, i can not last any longer.
then go home, baby.
i have to anyway, my mom will be worried.
leave then, some friend you are.
you can come to my house for dinner?
no, I am hiding out.
okay, seeya.
daddy??!?!?!
vada, vada, what is the matter?
where is daddy?
well he just left, what is wrong?
I am hemorrhaging.
what do you mean you are hemorrhaging?
i do not want, i do not need your help....
how old are you?
I am eleven and a half.
it is okay, come on upstairs, we have to have a little talk.
my mommy and daddy did that?
it is actually a very beautiful thing, and look there would not have been a vada.
i think it should be outlawed.
believe me, some day, you will feel differently.
oh, that is probably thomas j, i do not wanna see him. it is not fair. nothing happens to boys.
hi vada, can you come out?
i dunno..
please, it is real hot, maybe we can go swimming?
well when you get older, you just have to.
I am going to marry mr. bixler.
you can not marry a teacher, it is against the law.
it is not.
yes it is, cause then he will give you all a's and it will not be fair.
not true.
have you ever kissed anyone?
like they do on tv?
uh huh.
no.
maybe we should, just to see what is the big deal.
but, i do not know how.
here, practice on your arm like this.
like this?
uh huh.  okay, enough practice.
close your eyes.
but then i will not be able to see anything.
just do it.
okay, okay.
okay on the count of three.
say something it is too quiet.
umm, ummmmm
just, hurry.
you better not either.
well, let's spit on it.
okay.
seeya tomorrow.
okay, seeya.  vada?
what?
would you think of me?
for what?
well if you do not get to marry mr. bixler.
hi vada.
hi.
what are you doing.
feeding my fish.
is that the fish you won at the carnival?
yes.
he is getting big.  vada, come here and sit down for a minute.
vada, something happened to thomas j last night, he stepped on a beehive.
i told him not to tease those bees. did he get stung?
maybe i should go over and yell at him.
no sweetheart, you can't.
why not?
he was allergic to bees.
he is okay is not he?
there were just too many of 'em.
dr. welty!!!? dr. welty??
vada, what is wrong sweetheart?
i can not breathe, I am suffocating.
oh, wait relax now, let me look, let me look, come up here and we will have a look.
it hurts, it hurts so bad, make it stop.
what hurts vada?
the bee stings! i can not breathe!
hi.
hi, is vada home?
yes she is, but she is very upset, so she is not seeing anyone.
oh, I am judy, i go to school with her, i wanted to tell her I am sorry about thomas j.
well maybe she will feel better in a couple of days.
will you tell her i came by?
sure.
thank you. bye.
bye.
open your eyes, she is eleven years old! her only friend in the world is dead.
i know that, but what do you want from me?
stop hiding harry, you run harry. when i first came here, the idea of working with dead people, did not exactly thrill me, but when i saw a family lived here, i thought, &quot;if I am living without a family, at least i can work with one, and maybe once in a while I will be invited in for supper.&quot;
yeah, and when those suppers are disrupted because there is a car crash, or there is a fire, or a little boy steps on a beehive.
I am not asking you to stop feeling for those people. but life is not just death harry, do not ignore the living, especially your daughter.
he is gone sweetheart. he is gone!
get away, get away!!
okay, okay we do not have to talk about him, vada, vada we do not have to talk about him, it is okay. we will not talk about him all right?
justin and ronda say that i should tell people what i feel.
come here, sit down over here.
mr. bixler,  i love you.
oh, vada...
i love you like my dad loves shelly. i wanna live here.
pause as he takes all this in i think your dad would miss you.
no he wouldn't, i can not go home.
who is that?
that is suzanne.  she and i are going to be married this fall.
no....
i...i was going to bring her to class next week. i wanted to hear your poem. oh vada, please honey i cared for him too, vada please! vada, vada sweetheart don't.....
get away from me!
it is okay sweetheart.
I will pay it back, besides, i do not think I will ever go to class again.
I will tell you what, you dedicate your first book to me, and we will forget about the whole thing.
i will i promise.
okay, get in to bed.
goodnight.
goodnight.
did i kill my mother?
what??
the bees killed thomas j, and i killed my mother.
no, no.
i found this.
i forgot about that picture, where did you find it?
in the garage.
ahh, that little chevy was your mothers favorite car.
what was my mama like?
she was pretty, and kind, she had your eyes. oh boy did she love to laugh. sometimes when you laugh, you sound just like her.
really?
uh huh. you know what your mother did when she found out she was gonna have you? she came home and painted this whole room pink. she was so sure she was gonna have a little girl.
do you miss her?
yes, i did, very much for a long time, and even now, i get a little sad when i think of a pretty flower or a sunset that your mother would have liked.
i think every time i see a climbing tree I will think of thomas j.
that is good, memories are good sweetheart. vada, I am sorry; i was trying to keep it from you, i just couldn't. you are a good girl, and i want you to be happy; do not be an old grump like me.  seeya in the morning.
i can not stay, i just came to read my poem.
we would love to hear it.
weeping willow with your tears running down, why do you always weep and frown, is it because he left you one day, is it because he could not stay, on your branches he would swing, do you long for the happiness that they would bring, he found shelter in your shade, he thought his laughter would never fade, weeping willow stop your tears, there is something to calm your fears, you think death as if you forever part, but i know he will always be in your heart.
