hey you are not eating your meatloaf.
if i eat it I will throw up.
well you should at least try a little bit.
then I will throw up a little bit.
vada, try to scrunch these chairs together a little more.
dad, I am trying.  the chairs, they will not scrunch.
hi.
come on in!
that is okay.
it is just a corpse.
i know that.
you should be here when they bring in a body that is been dead for a couple of days, and they have not found it yet, 'cause it was in an apartment, and no-one came to visit, or floating in a river, and then the body starts turning this weird shade of green, you know, like watery pea soup? the arms and legs deteriorate first, the body looks like a raisin with four fat legs. anyway, this is why I am seriously considering cremation. judy??
i got a card from your uncle phil in los angeles today, said he went body surfing.
i do not know if i can picture uncle phil body surfing.
i do not know if i want to.
vada i wanna ask you a favor, remember you can absolutely say no if you want to.
do what?
well the thing is your room is right next door to ours, and so we thought, well, i thought, if you were willing we might move you to grammoo's room, and use your old room for the nursery. see we are going to be up half the night with a newborn and there'll be a lot of noise....
you want me to move?
well not far, just down the hall. plus grammoo's room's a lot bigger, and you get a view of the whole neighborhood.
okay, no problem.
okay thanks, atta girl.
oh, she is fine, she will love her new room.
look we react to every kick this baby gives, maybe vada's trying to tell us something too.
visualize a spare?
well you know what i mean.
so, what is on your mind?
me? what makes you think there is something on my mind?
you are passing up archie bunker to go bowling, you have got to have an angle.
no, i just thought it would be nice if the two of us had an evening out so we could... talk.
shelly's already told me all about sex.
she told me too, i mean, she told me she told you about sex, i personally new about sex long before i met shelly.
i figured you did.
ahh, strike, not, not bad at all. no, this talk is not about sex, it's, well there've been a lot of changes, and i know you are upset about losing your room, but the baby's got to go somewhere.
no it is okay, i understand, really.
honey that is very mature, I am proud of you vada.
maybe i should just move to china. one kid per family, that way you do not lose your room.
hey, why do not you just keep your room and we will put the baby in the back yard.
do not do that, you have got the whole garage.
oh yeah, right-between the power mower and the weed killer.
dad I am kidding, you can have the room.
seriously?
seriously.
great.
my mother can not have any more kids.
neither can mine. she is dead. it is shelly who is pregnant.
what are you staring at?
it is kevin, i do not want him to see me.
see you? he can smell you from there.
oh god, he is coming over here, act natural, totally natural.
what is the matter?
he likes you.
likes me? he said i looked like a grasshopper.
boys always pretend they hate you when they really like you.
that is ridiculous, so, if you really can not stand someone, then you pretend that you are really crazy about them?
i do not know. and i do not care, kevin's a jerk and i do not like him anymore. he is all yours!
dad, when a boy likes you, does he pretend that he does not like you? and if he pretends that he does not like you how can you tell that he likes you?
what boy likes you?
it is just a question, it is not about anybody.
oh, shell, that is ridiculous, where are my needle nosed pliers?
listen, if a boy wants to do homework with you, it really means he did not have nerve to ask you out on a date, so you will get your homework together and pretend to be studying, and the next thing you know you are ordering pizza and talking about your favorite movie stars.
so you are saying...what are you saying??
honey, ahh, guys do not wanna appear over anxious, so if you think there is a boy that might like you, let him know that you like him, so he will not feel he is taking such a risk when he is thinking of asking you out.
hi.
hi, wanna help me pick out wallpaper for my new room tomorrow?
ehh...i do not know i mean....
is it okay if i drink this?
it is okay with me, hi kevin.
well if it is not vada, the grasshopper girl.
assuming the baby's a &quot;supremes&quot; fan.
i bet your mom sang to you.
well if there was an article about it I am sure she did. she was always reading.
yes i know, it runs in the family.  new book?
the collected works of alfred biedermeyer
her favorite poet.
never heard of him.
how about a nice glass of milk?
and some taco chips so i can dunk.
they are enormous, i know.
is there milk in them already?
no, the milk comes when the baby comes.
when did you umm, i mean umm...
oh, i was a very late developer, they used to call me &quot;shelly two backs&quot;. all my friends had real bra's, not like the training ones i had.
why do they call them training bra's? it is not like learning to ride a bike.
i know, i guess it is just sort of preparing you for the rest of your life. it is not easy being a woman.
you are telling me.
vada?
the poem is really about attitude. it is about not giving up and...it's easy to be overwhelmed sometimes but...that's when we should...force ourselves to push on.
vada what about you, who have you come up with?
my mother.
your mother?
i never met my mother.
i told you about the pumpkin did not i?
no.
ah, well, i bought her this huge pumpkin for halloween, but she could not bear to carve it so she saved it for weeks, and it ended up under the christmas tree.
then grammoo said on christmas eve, there was this sickening smell permeating the entire house.
oh no.
there is still a big spot on the floor.
okay, we need wallpaper paste.  hey cece!
oh, is there anything else you remember, how did you propose? was it romantic?
well, i kinda just blurted it out over a root beer float.
mmmmmm. root beer float that sounds good.
did she mention any contests that she won? i mean she must have had some awards, she was so talented and all.
she was talented, but honey i wish i could help you a little more, it is just that your mother and i had kind of a whirlwind courtship, she came to town with this traveling theater group, i proposed on our second date, two weeks later we were married and almost nine months later you were here and she was gone.
was it a nice funeral?
oh yes, lovely funeral, gernaldi brothers did a beautiful job, lots of pink roses...i used the white hearse. hey, how about this flowered wallpaper for your room?
hey vada. how is your report coming?
great, i have so much to say, i hardly know where to start.
you know I have been re-reading virginia woolf, i think she would be a natural for you, she led a fascinating life.
thanks, but i think I am going to stick to my mom, she led a fascinating life too.
I am sure she did.
vada, he was giving you an easy out so you would not have to write about your mother.
but i wanna write about her.
you are crazy, what was her big achievement? did she invent gravity?
no-one invented gravity, it just exists.
then what did she do?
well...i'm not supposed to talk about it, but since I am going to write about it i might as well tell you. she was a spy against the russians.
oh please, who do you think you are kidding? and where did she spy on the russians from, here in pennsylvania??
no, not here in pennsylvania, she went to russia undercover with her acting troupe and got a lot of highly sensitive secret plans sent back. just when she was about to go home, she got caught, and they killed her.
all right, so when did she have you between all her acting and spying and getting caught?
that is simple. she was pregnant with me...when she went to russia and she did not know...and then when the russians found out, they waited to shoot her 'cause you are not allowed to kill pregnant women anywhere in the world.
so she had you in jail, in russia?
well actually i was born in siberia and then they shot her and sent me home to my dad.
what is this? december 8th, 1958?
i do not know, dad does not either.
well, it must mean something. she was obviously very sentimental.
this is one of my favorite things, her passport.
oh vada she is so beautiful.
margaret's my middle name, but everybody called her maggie. los angeles, have you ever been there?
no. you know they say, that it never rains, that you can barbecue on christmas day...instead of riding your bike, you just surf over to your friends house. oh, and the place is just crawling with celebrities. i know someone who saw walter matthau picking up his dry-cleaning.
is that why uncle phil moved there?
uncle phil just needed a change, a little adventure.
i wonder why she got a passport if she never went anywhere.
well you have got to be prepared.
I am definitely traveling some day.
why not now?
what do you mean?
how would you like to go visit your uncle phil in los angeles...next week during your spring vacation, you could do research on your mom.
but what about you and the baby? you need me.
oh, but I am not due to have the baby for another six weeks or so.
yeah, it would be kinda great.
it would be fantastic.
but dad'll never go for it.
you leave your father to me.
she can spread her wings, right here in pennsylvania. you do not send a child alone to los angeles, she could come back with her ears pierced, her legs shaved and god knows what else.
she is not a child harry, she is a young woman, she is on the brink of...
disaster, disaster lurks behind every  palm tree.
you are being narrow-minded.
you were just having a fight about me. would not you like to hear my opinion?
of course.
i think that if I am old enough to accept a new baby, and if I am old enough to accept a new room, I am old enough to go to california.
honey i know it is fun to think about these things but....
i already bought a ticket.
what??
i used my own money and got a great deal, it is a q47nr five day fare, which means that i have to change planes in dallas and stay over a saturday.
yeah and they forgot to ask for one who was not having hormone surges.
oh come on harry, we are talking about five days here.
i really think we are going overboard for just a simple school assignment.
reason? what reason?
phil's moving to la, grammoo's passing, the baby being born, vada's report, i think...
no nuns, got it.
and no boys, promise me, oh those la people are all so corrupt you will end up pregnant and on drugs...and do not come running to me when you wake up in the city morgue with a tag on your toe having been beaten up into an unrecognizable pulp by some surfer...and do not make eye contact, it communicates an implied vulnerability.
what does that mean?
it means...i'm a paranoid nitwit who is never let his baby girl out of his sight for the simple reason he is a paranoid nitwit. so why do not you just say &quot;oh dad&quot; and get on the damn plane already?
bye dad, I will miss you.
thanks, i needed that.
I will be back in 137 hours.
have fun.
excuse me i asked you a question.
I am not supposed to talk to strangers, not even nuns.
you are vada right?
how did you know my name?
your uncle phil told me.
where is he?? he was supposed to meet me.
hey relax, you think i kidnapped him or something?
this is california, anything is possible.
well if i was looking for a victim, i definitely would not pick your uncle phil who outweighs me by about 150 pounds, besides, who would i ask for ransom? you??
are you suffering from a chemical imbalance or is it just an attitude problem.
my only problem is that your uncle phil is giving me five bucks to pick you up but i do not get paid 'till delivery.
gee, that is a problem.
put that down, i'll...i'll call the police!
what are you gonna do? tell them that...a polite person helped carry your bag?
i do not think you are very polite.
yeah, well i do not think you are very grateful. a lot of people in your position would say &quot;thank you&quot;.
thank you.
do not mention it.
i do not even know your name.
thanks....
no thanks!
he said it was a gift.
yeah, right.
i do not need you to be telling me to...
taxi!!!
vada!! vada runs and jumps into phil's arms look at you, oh hi, hi, hi!! how are you? you look great, how is shelly? your dad?
they are great.
how about nick? did he take good care of you?
he was very polite, worth the entire five dollars.
uh huh, well...good to know. phil hands nick a               5 note
thanks
give it back nicholas!
but we made a business deal.
what ever happened to a good old-fashioned favor huh?
you are nick's mother?
what, did you think he was raised by a pack of wolves? do not be misled by the haircut.
who knew that when i started working in the finest foreign car shop in la, i would also find the light of my life.
yeah, well he left out a couple of steps, ah look, I have got to get back to these bills, phil will you help vada get settled?
come on...i'll show you where you are going to stay.
she lives here too?
ahh, that is right, like one big happy family. this is nick's room and uhh....
but...are you engaged or something?
dating, seriously dating. you are thirsty, want something to drink? sure you do, it is been a long trip.
sounds like you have a fear of commitment, uncle phil.
that is ridiculous, i'm...i'm very, umm, what do you call it?
committed?
committed.
so does that mean that you sleep here every night?
yes, it does.
well then that is not exactly dating is it.
vada, i know that traditionally you are not supposed to do a lot of these things before you are officially married...but these are very, very special circumstances.
my parents had a brief, but intensely fulfilling relationship. she is remained a woman of mystery to this day.
and you are going to solve the mystery?
i got it all figured out, i know she went to wilson high school, so first thing tomorrow, I am going to go there and get a copy of her yearbook. that way i can get the names of all the people she was in clubs with and found out who her friends were.
then you will be all set.
sounds like you are very organized.
i had to be, i only have five days. so just point me in the right direction and....
I will do better than that. I will send you off with your own private guide.
muh??
I would consider it a personal favor.
what is that?
ten bucks.
what is it for?
for the mini-bike fund.
wow!
well i know you are not crazy about taking vada around tomorrow, so...i just want you to know i appreciate it though.
no problem.
you are a good man nicholas.
phil, i think you should consider... fades as vada walks off
you know eavesdropping is a very unattractive habit.
i was not eavesdropping, i was overhearing.
i did not ask for the money, phil just gave it to me.
well look, i know that all you care about is your precious mini-bike. it is obvious you have no sense of historical perspective, i think we are here.
getting off please.
excuse me, pardon, thank you, excuse me.
they obviously have no sense of historical perspective either.
it is not funny! i mean what am i going to do? without that yearbook I am lost. i can not just walk around town looking for someone with a wilson high school letter sweater!!!
vada.
what??
calm down! we just have to ask ourselves, where your books come from.
this is really very nice of you.
it is no problem, i had a mother once myself.
if it is in here at all, it is in the back two rows.
o.k. thank you very much.
happy hunting.
i do not mean to alarm you, but I am getting a nose bleed from the altitude.
just remember the needle in the haystack.
i never did understand that story, did someone find the needle or not?
what difference does it make?
a big difference, if someone found it we should keep looking, if they did not we are just wasting our time.
oh my gosh, here it is!
look, here she is. margaret ann muldovan - newspaper, literary magazine, french club, drama club, debate club, girls basketball and swim team.  with maggie's combo of good looks and talent, we are sure to be seeing her name in lights. she was going to be famous.
yearbooks always set you out for disappointment, i want mine to say: nick probably will not amount to much, so do not be surprised if you never hear anything about him again. can we go?...it smells like someone left their gym bag in here.
it is the leather bindings, i love the fragrance of vintage books.
i love the fragrance of chilidogs.
do not forget, the girls change their names if they got married.
I would never do that.
get married?
change my name.
what, you think the guy should change his name?
i do not think anybody should change their names, that way you can always find them when you need them.
what if you do not wanna be found?
why do you argue with everything i say?
it is too bad about your mom. at least she went peacefully, I have seen a lot of people go out the hard way.
what do you remember about her.
well, we worked on the school paper together. i remember when the legion of decency declared rebel without a cause unfit...boy...that jim backers, what an actor uh? what an actor.
wow, you walked out with my mother?
you kidding? he picks up a picture and shows vada and nick
you saved a lot of lives, you should be very proud.
umm, I am trying to find out her greatest achievement.
she was the uhh...first girl ever suspended for smoking.
suspended from school, my mother??
everyone was really surprised when maggie was turned in, she got kicked out for two weeks.
what kind of sleazoid geek would turn her in?
i would do it again in a minute.
you ratted on my mother??
who are you? hitler's hall monitor?
well maybe you should join a hippie commune. but let me tell you something. sooner or later it is going to be your turn to take out the garbage.
what about giving the other guy a break.
what about living in the real world pal?
care for a smoke?
this'll be great in my report, my mother was suspended for smoking.
i think it is cool.
you would.
you would rather have a mother that is a member of the police state? rules are made to be broken.  just ask him.
hello.
hi.
what can i do for you?
ehh...i'm staying at the chateau and the guy who runs the garage there said that you are the best jag people in town...so uhm.
well enrique is great and...we are the best.
then i have come to the right place.
i guess you have.
I am sam helburn. sam.
rose.
so what is wrong?
nothing, nothing at all.
i mean...with your car.
oh, ahh, oil change, i...ehh...i just drove in from chicago and uhh...nice hair.
excuse me?
i was commenting on your hair.
oh, are you a hairdresser?
I am a pediatric cardiologist.
oh, you mean you...fix the hearts...of little babies?
mostly...little babies, but...not exclusively.
...it's all in the hands really. you know you have nice hands, you operate?
yes, i do.
...so i guess I will always...teach...you know...'cause it makes a good relief from the operating-room, i feel i have an obligation...
no, there is no problem, dr. helburn just needs to have his oil changed.
oh i see, 'cause usually that does not require such a lengthy consultation.
well rose was being very thorough.
was rose.
ahh, dr. helburn, why do not you come in tomorrow-morning at eight o'clock, that is when we open, we will get you started.
I will be here.
what is with the touching, why was he touching you?
he was not touching me he was just...gesturing...
he was caressing.
phil for god sake.
god? no i did not think you would want to invoke god rose, because he saw even more than i did. rose look phil, if you want the rights of a husband, you are going to have to ask me something but if not, you are going to have to get accustomed to the rights of what you are.
oh...what's that?
right now? an intimate border with...mechanical skills.
hi!
oh, hi, how is the investigation going?
just call us the &quot;dead end kids&quot;.
may i use the phone please.
oh, yeah, sure, help yourself.
anyone with taste, anyone with breeding.... a gentleman, would choose british racing green, with maybe a tan interior...but when you buy a red car, with a black interior and wire wheels, you have one thing on your mind and one thing only and I am too much of a gentleman to say what that one thing is...in front of the children.
really?
who didn't? she could play basketball like jerry west, she danced like sid cherice, then she would look at you with those big blue eyes, forget about it. i asked her out a couple of times but she always said no.
beidermeyer?
beidermeyer that is it, what a mad man.
he is a great poet.
he is?
do you know him?
everybody did, walk along citrus between fountain and sunset any afternoon.
he will remember my mother for sure.  stanley it was a big class vada and...but...well of course he will remember, who could forget maggie?
no it does not but... i...i wish it did.
well, thanks for your help mr. rosenfeld and I am sorry my mother would not go out with you, I am sure she would have had a really great time.
i would have tried to show her a good time. i promised her when she left that i would never forget her and i never did. stanley rosenfeld does not forget.
this is the street he walks down every day. when he needs inspiration...
boy, you are really into this.
he is one of the great poets.
he is writing. hello?
if you are selling girl scout cookies I am borderline diabetic.
you are alfred beidermeyer are not you?
you had to remind me?
are you writing a poem?
no, I am writing to the phone company because they keep charging me for calls to caracas, venezuela...do you know any know anybody in caracas, venezuela?
if he has a heart attack you are carrying the body down yourself.
at least it gives you plenty of exercise.
umm, where do you want this?
oh, just put it over there.
do you still teach?
no, no, no, i gave it up ten years ago...actually it gave me up.
my mother took this course with you at ucla...&quot;the foundations of poetic thought&quot;.
ucla? my cardigan sweater period.
her name was maggie muldovan.
ohhhhh.
people said she looked like me.
i was drinking a little in those days.  I am drinking a little these days too.
I am sure she found your lectures fascinating.
oh i doubt it...lectures are notoriously boring.
no they are not. i wanna be a writer, i wanna be just like you.
humph, meee?? my dear, this is not a country that rewards poetry, this is a country that rewards gas mileage, besides, people do not read poetry anymore, they watch television. do not be a poet, be a tv repairman.
look at it this way, however bad i feel, it is not as bad as becoming extinct in a bottomless pit of tar.
and i thought i was weird.
you are weird. let's just go.
oh, no wait, i like that you bought me here.
hey what do i care...i mean, consider the sorts, a chick from pennsylvania, who wears a mood ring.
this is not just a mood ring.
does it work?
well, it does not open cans or anything but it...it's sort of a reminder of a friend of mine.
boyfriend?
well he was a boy, he was my friend...he was my best friend. when we were kids we were gonna...move out here and move to the brady bunch.
do you think your friend's up in heaven now, looking down on you and watching you all the time?
well, i hope he is not watching me all the time.
let me see if it changes colors on me.
ehh...okay...but be careful, it has a lot of sentimental value.
maybe it will fit my pinkie.
do not force it, you will break it.
I am not going to break it, i just wanna see it change colors.
i want it back now. i never should have taken it off, i want it back.
hey relax, I am not going to break it.
give it to me!
come and get it.
just give it to me!!
just come and get it...right here!
don't, come on!!!
woah, watch it!
don't!!!
uh oh...
what do you mean &quot;uh oh&quot;???
...i dropped it.
in the tar??
it was an accident, I will get you a new one.
where are you going???
owh...
what are you doing? you can not go in there!
oh no?!?!?!
it is dangerous!!
leave me alone!!
you mean,  this ring?
jerk! you idiot!!!
nicholas! what are you doing up?
i...ahhh...umm...i'm thirsty.
there is water in your bathroom.
i want juice!
do not wake up vada.
i won't.
we may go out for coffee after the meeting so do not expect us before midnight.
there is plenty of fruit.
you know where the fire extinguisher is.
if the fruit burst into flames I will be prepared.
you are so clever.
I am just tired.
all right, well get to bed early and do not let anybody in. bye.
lock the door.
bye.
never heard of her.
montgomery clift, wait 'till i tell shelly.
here's judy garland!
my mother stood on this very spot.
I am afraid your feet will not fit in there.
that is 'cause i was cursed with the sultenfuss bear claws.  my hands fit.
big deal.
what is he smoking?
what do you think?
really?
hey look!
this is a totally barbaric custom.
right.
and you would be my cousin?
yeah i guess...sort of.
but we would not really be related right?
oh no, we would not be from the same bloodlines or anything. we would be like two total strangers who...accidentally had relatives that got married.
good. i mean...
marriage can really complicate things. so, are not you going to say anything about my earrings?
i already did, it is a totally barbaric custom...but on you, it looks good.
you are grounded 'till you are fifty!
you are over reacting!
make that sixty and I am docking your allowance for two weeks.
mom!
you think this is easy for me? you go out on the town and i get to be the bad guy. look i do not want you to be some punk hoodlum delinquent but i can not do my job as a parent if you do not do your job as a kid.
it is not his fault!
no...it was me. and I am sorry mom, really, ju...just tell me what to do, I will do anything.
go to your room.  and you...i do not suppose your father gave you permission to pierce your ears, did he?
not exactly.
well just do not shave your legs...he'll never let you visit us again if i send you home hairless and full of holes.
good morning.
well maybe for you.
something wrong?
well let's just say you are lucky you deal with children who are under anesthesia.
well, even without anesthesia i always tell my patients to...eh... to relax.
oh no, i, i...eh...i couldn't.
you couldn't?
well I am sort of involved.
sort of?
let's just say i...eh...i'm involved.
where i come from, involvement...generally calls for a substantial piece of jewelry.
oh, well, i do not wear a lot of jewelry.
all right, so you do not like jewelry but...eh...you do like...eh...good music. liszt, one of my favorites.
lizt was my parents' favorite, they were hungarian.
hungarian. famous for their beautiful music...and beautiful women.
doctor helburn, what a surprise. in the last couple of days we have changed your oil, realigned your brakes, balanced and rotated your tires, aligned your front end, and flushed out your entire cooling system, i really did not expect to be seeing you for another three thousand miles.
oh what can i say phil, it is just that i feel so welcome here.
ahh, why do not i come in first thing in the morning and you can check out that left blinker for me.
oh, sure okay.
I will see you then...i look forward to it.
wait, are you saying that i do not appreciate?
I am saying he asked me out for coffee, like a real date, when was the last time you did that?
wha...what do you mean? we have a date every night.
no, that is not a date, a date is when i do not cook.
are you the hillary mitchell who went to school with maggie muldovan?
maggie muldovan? did you...know her?
it is okay really, i was just a baby.
I am sorry, it is just...i've been taking all these seminars to get in touch with my feelings and...sometimes it gets out of hand.
thanks.
i remember maggie...and your dad too, you know we used to all pile into his old 54 ford pickup. &quot;chuck the truck&quot; we used to call it.
no, but sometimes he drives a hearse.
he is an undertaker.
his name's harry sultenfuss.
oh.  ohhh?
what are you saying?
ummmmm, look, i...i...
are you saying my mother had another husband?
oh honey, back then...people did crazy things.
they sure did! they got kicked out of school, they married truck drivers...these are my mother's greatest accomplishments? I am sure glad i came all the way out here to find them out.
maybe not...but maybe it does. if no one told me about this, i mean...maybe they are trying to hide something.
like what?
maybe this jeffrey guy is...is my real father. i mean...look at me, i have the hair of a dead person and...and my nose, no one in my family has this nose, it could be the nose of...a...of a complete stranger,
that thing you said about your nose...it was a stranger's nose...well it is not...it's...i mean...it's yours...you know?
nick?
yeah?
this has been a real confusing day.
uhh sweetie, i wou... i wou...i wou...
do not worry, I will do it in my own subtle way.
hello? sultenfuss parlor.
hi dad.
hi honey.
i just called to say that I am having a really great time.
good! you should go over and watch some ted carson.
actually, i wanna see jeffrey pommeroy.
yeah.
totally groovy huh?
totally.
ask him if he needs a good tuba player.
i will. how is shelly?
oh she is fine...ahh...umm the doctor just...ehh...told her to stay in bed and get a little rest and...'n stay quiet...just...just to make sure that...
okay...bye daddy, i love you.
i love you too sweetie, bye.
give my love to shelly.
shelly's sick...i have to get to the bottom of this whole thing and get back there.
she will be all right baby.
yeah...right, it is pointless to worry.
I am not authorized to trace licenses for civilians.
his name is jeffrey pommeroy and he used to drive a 54 ford pickup, black with red interior. please?
give us a break. all you have to do is make a phone call.
i thought i told you to lose this guy.
look, sergeant i know i said some things last time that i should not have said at all but...
i think the phrase was &quot;sleazoid geek&quot;.
I am sorry okay...we got to find this guy because...he knew vada's mom and he could tell her stuff that no one else knows.
you are still asking me to break the law.
yeah, this is sergeant tanaka from holenbeck, i need a current address for a jeffrey....
pommeroy.
pommeroy...he may or may not be driving a black 54 ford pickup.  monday.
I am leaving sunday.
could you hold on for a second?
so charge him with something...who's going to know?
me, I will know!
do you wanna be a hall monitor all your life?
hello, I am going to need this right now...this guy...well we think he might be going after the governor.  twenty minutes? fine.
i feel like before i can talk to him i have to see his face.
how is this for a solution. we will take a drive over to his place, you can introduce yourself....
I would like to see his house but...i do not know if I would have the nerve to just go up and knock on his door. i do not think i can go through with it.
then we will keep driving...you'll decide.
do you think i should tell my dad about jeffrey pommeroy?
i do not know, he is got an awful lot on his mind right now.
maybe.
then again, your dad's got his own memories and he is got his own life now...i think this is a secret just between you and your mom.
a secret, i like that.
this is it i guess.
well, I have come this far...the least i can do is knock on the door.
you want me to come with?
i should do this myself.
okay...take your time...i'll...i'll go for a walk around.
okay.
hi there...can i help you?
are you jeffrey pommeroy?
sure am, who are you?
i am vada margaret sultenfuss. my mother was...
maggie...maggie's little girl.
i was hoping I would get to meet you.
you mean, you knew about me?
umm...can you come in for a minute?
I would like to, thanks.
bye.  she looks a little like me when i was a little girl.
does she?
I am glad you are here.
you are?
yeah, come on, let's talk.
we have this school assignment to write about someone we never met and i chose my mother. she was born in los angeles and since my uncle phil moved out here i came in to visit him and then i looked at her high school yearbook and...  and i called a few people and one guy said that she went to ucla, another guy said that i should call hillary mitchell so....
hillary mitchell? how is she?
oh she is great...she's a little crazy though. anyway, hillary said that you had a black ford truck and this policeman i know got in touch with motor vehicles and...he gave me your address and here i am.

i told you it was a long story.
that is all right, you know what? you sound just sounded just like your mother...she told great stories. stories with crazy accents and...special effects.
special effects?
yeah like, switching a lamp on and off when she was talking about lightning...audiences love stuff like that. and your mom knew how to work an audience.
i do not know very much about her...i was hoping that you could help me.
I will try.
and she saved it.
well, we did not have a camera...so she just wrote the date on the bag and said, &quot;this will be out wedding album, this will be a day we will never forget.&quot; we never did.
do you have any pictures if her?
I have got something better.
she is beautiful.
we performed on the beach one summer...ha...everything went wrong.
would you like...eh...to have these movies?
more than anything in the world.
it is good to see maggie again...and you.
umm...didn't you ever wonder about me?
well i did not know about you until after she was gone.
i thought that...umm...maybe you would be curious about how i turned out.
I would say you turned out just fine.
i guess what i mean is, my mother married my dad after you...and then i was born, so i thought that...maybe you got divorced because of me.
wait...woah...woah...wait a minute...do you think I am your father?
well...
honey I would be proud to be your father, really. it just is not so.
maggie wanted to have a baby...and...umm...i didn't.
oh.
she did not wanna miss out on anything...especially motherhood...it got to be a real problem with us.
and I am going to use the movies when i give my report. jeffrey says audiences love special effects.
you better ace it...you sacrificed our whole vacation.
okay, that does it, that does it, the strudel does it, first it is brakes then.... i mean i am not going to let some podiatrist with a jaguar full of strudel come waltzing in here and....
I am not a podiatrist, I am a cardiologist.
who cares? rose, tell him we have an arrangement.
well, wha...what kind of arrangement?
yes, what kind of arrangement? I would be very interested to know what kind of an arrangement we have.
you know exactly...what kind it is. come on rose...what do you want from me?
i do not want anything you do not wanna give me.
and you certainly should not settle for anything less that you deserve.
you stay out of this, look, if i had a red xk-150 with a black interior, i sure as hell would not be handing out relationship advice.
i do not think the color of the interior is....
rose this not the place to be having this...
i think this place is just fine.
you know how i feel about you.
you like the way i cook...you think i make out a great invoice.  phil you and nick and...and this...this garage are my whole life...i love you. sure you do not have the greatest taste in music...but there is not another woman who could look so sexy in that smock. what I am try... what I am trying to sa...
you really think i look sexy in this smock?
is that a yes?
no, you are the best and i do not want you talking to anybody on the plane.
dad already gave me this lecture. he is going to meet me at the airport, then we will go for some pizza, then we will have dinner in bed with shelly.
sounds great, well you give 'em both one of these for me.
bye aunt rose.
bye niece, vada.
...umm...listen, I am sorry...you had to sacrifice your entire vacation.
some sacrifices are worth it.
you mean...it was not that terrible?
i would not say it was terrible...it was...kind of...
an adventure?
part adventure...part miracle.
write me a poem?

no?
I will write you ten poems.  bye.
good-bye, look in your backpack.
what happened to shelly?
she just had a baby that is all.
we have a baby?
uh huh, a boy, you have got a new brother.
can i see him?
you can do anything you want. you are his sister.
shelly?
hey! oh look.
he is so tiny.
i know, look at his little hands.
I am sorry i could not come pick you up honey.
i was pushing as fast as i could.
did it hurt a lot?
you have no idea.
let me hold him.
o.k.
maybe he is wet?
maybe he is hungry.
