you are too gracious. these things have some merit, i suspect ... but this--  ... i am convinced, is fine.
even those delicate veins, the texture of this flesh -- i have never seen anything more exquisite.
my partner believes that i should build a horror chamber, immortalizing the hideous crimes and criminals of london. at such times marie antoinette has reassured me, she has promised me recognition for the devotion i gave to her.
she will undoubtedly keep her promise. if you will grant me the privilege, I would like to submit this work to the royal academy when i get back.
you will have won the undying gratitude of us all.  is that not so, marie antoinette?
i regret i can not spend the time I would like with your exhibition, but I am going to worry the life out of you when i come back.
it will always afford me great pleasure to see you.
good night, sir.
good night.  and i am very grateful to you.
i came back for some of the books. i am trying to straighten out the accounts. i do not hope to impress you, but i may as well tell you: we have not a farthing!
that is unfortunate.
your money may have been well invested, my friend. something important may come of all this.
something important has got to come of it! do you know that the rent on this place is not paid?
is that a fact?
no -- I am lying to amuse myself!  now look here, I have an idea that will get us out of all this. we have not twopence between us, but we have got these.
fire insurance!
yes, there is our way out. a fire in this place would give us ten thousand pounds.
a fire! is this your idea of humor, my friend?
i want the money back I have thrown into this rubbish heap.
you are asking to burn these people ... you are asking? ...
I am not asking you anything. I am telling you what I am going to do!
and you think i will permit this, my friend?
you have got to permit it! whose fault is it that no one comes here? the museum at walston lane does well enough, and why? they have got jack the ripper, burke and hare, the mad butcher, the demon barber of fleet street and things people pay to see.
and they are welcome to them. to perpetuate such creatures is to celebrate their crimes.
well, what do you think I am in this for?  think of it, man, a match -- a cigar stub -- and ten thousand pounds to divide between us!
you are insane.
not at all -- let me show you how easily it can be done.
where did you get the stag hound?
he is not a stag hound. his name is kelly and he is a police dog.
what do you mean police dog?
plain-clothes man.  come on, slaves, drink and be merry for tomorrow you might be appointed correspondent to washington ... a fate worse than death.
listen, flo, cut it out. hard-tack is pretty sore.
am not that something. the mad monk of manhattan. here goes nothing.  listen to the animal cracker roar like a lion.
as i live and breathe and wear spats ... the prince.
been doing experiments with scotch and soda again?
where did you get the news item?  from a little bird?
yeah.  have a pleasant vacation?
charming. more delightful people crippled.
great. consider yourself crippled -- financially. see if you can jar your charming friends loose from enough to eat on.
meaning what?
that you are a sure bet to place in the bread line. there is no room on this rag for the purely ornamental. you are easy on the eyes and pretty conceited about it.
I am through clowning. you are all washed up. get out!
what do you mean, you poor ham! this is new year's!
all right, what about it? we get out a paper just the same. did you ever stop to think of that?
well, is it my fault if nothing happens?
and how does one go about getting these human documents, may i inquire?
that is none of our business.  but you bring me something for the next edition if it is only a recipe for spaghetti!
quick, watson, the cookbook!
i told you he was a sore.
stories scarcer than caviar at a street cleaner's banquet, and he says, bring me a yarn. all i have to do is get a story.
here's a wow.
call the homicide squad!
how is every little thing?
fine. you are the first reporter in here for two hours. you people seeing the old year out?
I am people which the old year saw out. I am canned, fired!
no kiddin'.
I have got to make news, if i have to bite a dog.  hey, kelly! oh, mi gosh, even he walked out on me.
I have got a story for you. you know the joan gale girl?
yes, she committed suicide yesterday. that is not news. i heard about it last year.
oh, yeah? maybe she did not commit suicide. she may have been murdered!
no foolin' -- any suspect?
do you know george winton?
old howard winton's cub?
that is the one.
they do not suspect <i>him</i>?
do not they? he is down at the tombs right now.
say, if you are stringin' me, old-timer ...
why would i string y'? they were sweeties until a month ago.
what does that prove?
nothing. only she may have tried to blackmail him. you know such things have happened. anyway, he was at her apartment a few hours before she was found dead.
hotcha! saved, one job!
make it snappy, colonel.
there is an autopsy ordered at bellevue immediately. you better skip over there.
do not give this to anybody else, will you?
it is all yours.
thanks.
yeah. i suppose you people will crucify me for something i did not do.  i didn't! you understand that! ... i did not do it! she -- tried before --
come on, old man, that will not do. you know you are innocent until proven guilty.
yes, sure, that is fine. while I am proving my innocence, you people are going to uncover every petty kid trick i ever did ... you are going to write editorials about every cocktail i ever drank. anything that any sane, normal person might have done will have a sinister meaning, if i did it.  go on! get out! i do not want to talk to you!
listen, kid. you are in a tough spot, and you can make it a whole lot easier for yourself if you cut out the cry-baby stuff --
cry-baby?
that is what i said.
my lawyers will be on the job in a little while, and i warn you people anything you print about me you have got to prove. dad will not stand for--
your dad has stood for plenty. now let's get down to cases. when did you see the dale girl last?
for a few minutes the afternoon before -- before --
hmmm. why did not you tell that to the police?
they did not give me a chance. we had a couple of drinks and she was all right then. she seemed happy.
uh-huh. do you remember what she said? what did you talk about?
she laughed and told me that we were being silly, that we did not care for each other any more but we need not hate each other ...  ... she said she wanted to be friends.
i see. was that all she said?
we planned a trip for her. i was going to send her to bermuda.
you were not going with her?
no.  why did not i take her out somewhere? but she was laughing and seemed so happy.
well, let's get back to the case in hand. they ordered an autopsy and discovered her body had been stolen from the morgue.
stolen! what are you trying to do to me? ... you are working with the police! ... you are trying to make me say something that can be used against me! you are trying ...
hold on, hold on. I am trying to help you, if you are on the square, and i think you are.
then why are you telling me a crazy lie? ...
that happens to be the truth.
who would steal her body?
that is what they are going to ask you.
well, am not that a shame. nice little chappie that would not harm a fly ... everybody picking on the little fellow.
if this kid was some unknown soda jerker, they would not have pinched him. but he is george winton and they are playing him up. it is a roman holiday for every paper hat editor in new york.
why the goose pimples? if he was not social register -- if it was somebody like me, you would be trying to hang him.
i would not be trying, beloved. i would hang him! and another thing, all this gaga about the body disappearing. eight bodies have been stolen in new york within the last eighteen months. does not it seem more reasonable to hook this up from that angle?
and ruin a perfectly good story? do not be silly.
no, i mean it. i think this kid's entitled to a break.
he is getting a break, am not he? he is front page.
you give me a pain!
I am glad to hear it. when did you go in for crusading in the cause of justice? this lousy mug, with all the money in the world, has had two or three nasty affairs. he is kept out o' print because his great- grandfather was smarter than the indians.
well, anyway, he could not have copped that body -- he was in jail.
you do not think he would be sap enough to do the job himself. i hope they give him the works. even if he did not kill the kid, he is responsible for her death, and they can fry him any time without making me sore.
well, i will not work on it from that angle.
oh, you will not -- you were pretty tough about judge ramsey -- a little while ago --
and they never proved anything against him.
except that he disappeared when things got too hot.
or was bumped off by someone who was afraid of him.
whooey -- he took a run-out powder.
well, that is got nothing to do with this case. can i handle this my way?
you cannot. I am still editor of this sheet.
all right, you said i was fired. well, i quit! give the assignment to somebody else.
hey, come here, sob-sister!
nope, I am through!
on the square, jimmy, if you would seen winton down there -- I am not holding a brief for him -- maybe he is a dirty pup, but he is scared and hysterical -- and so kinda dumb and worthless ...
great! ... if he is worthless we will give him away as a bridge prize. come on -- beat it. it is five o'clock. you need some sleep.
no, there is another point i want to iron out.
sleep on it ... we will get it tomorrow.
which one is me? the horse?
get out of here.
if my curiosity is not too great, would you mind telling me what manner of animal this is you are designing?
one of the maids-in-waiting for that elizabethan group.
and he is not struck dead! this man, he lives! it would be interesting to know, young man, where and when you studied anatomy.
that does not seem so bad to me. what is wrong with it?
everything, my friend. and you hope to be a great sculptor --  a great sculptor. look -- this forearm is at least two inches too long.
but the composition as a whole -- I have tried to keep a sketchy freedom.
if it is freedom to represent people with limbs that do not match -- cripples -- you have achieved your purpose. anatomy! heaven forgive you. you must have studied with a sideshow of freaks!
have you got it? is it completed?
yes, sir, it is here on the truck, but it is pretty heavy -- I will need help.
otto! you and one of those other fellows! come help professor darcey.
shall we unpack it?
yes.
I would be glad to, mr. igor.  i think I will have somethin' to tell you soon.
you have done well, and now i, too, have something for you. come.
yes, why?
i wondered. did he invite you to lunch, or did you invite him?
i wish you would not be so sarcastic about ralph. he is the sweetest kid i know.
what are you laughing at?
i just had a picture of you telling a landlady some day that you did not have the rent, but ralph is awful sweet.
i do not see any big-moneyed boys running after you.
i met one last night ... all the money this side of peoria.
did you? where?
in the can.  the hoosegow! mrs. winton's little boy. the pawk avenue wintons, you know ... and plenty of do-re-mi.  he is in the jail-house now ...
i do not have any affairs. what do you mean?
i do not think you could have a real affair. you could not care for anyone.
I have been in love so many times my heart is calloused ... but I have never hit one with dough. this love-in-an-attic is not my idea of a way to spend a pleasant afternoon.
i do not agree with you.
all right, you raise the kids -- I will raise the roof. I would rather die with an athletic heart from shaking cocktails and bankers, than expire in a pan of dirty dish water.
you would.
he can look like a chimpanzee and act like an igorot but he must have dough -- plenty of dough.
you think money is the only requisite. it happens that the poor people are happier.
then marry ralph ... you will be the happiest couple in the world.
to lunch.
to lunch, you say. i am having coffee and sandwiches sent in. we are not leaving until we have everything ready for the opening.
but i have some friends waiting.
that is unfortunate. they will have to wait.
i will only be gone about half an hour.
if you leave before the work is done, you will be gone for a much longer period ... you will be gone for good.
all right, I will tell them. they are right here in front.
fine, thanks.
gee, honey-bunch, I am sorry -- I am going to have to disappoint you.
do not worry -- she will get used to it.
disappoint me? why, what do you mean, dear?
well, you see, the old chap is pretty anxious to open on schedule. all of his advertising announced the opening tonight.
he might get some publicity out of it.
no use. he is a crab, i tell you.
who? old santa claus there? that is easy for anyone with my sex appeal. he is a pushover. watch me stand that old dodo on his ear.
nix, flo -- he will not let you in and you will only get me in dutch.
horsefeathers!
why, certainly, sir. my fiance. charlotte, may i present mr. igor.
delighted, I am sure.
if you will forgive this poor, crippled stump, my dear, i am very happy to know you.
thank you.
although you would be amused if i were to tell you that i knew you before you were born. before this terrible thing happened to me ...  ... i made a very beautiful statue. even if i had not met with this disaster, i could never have hoped to do anything finer, probably nothing quite so fine. and, my child, you are that figure come to life. i wonder, some time, would you pose for one of my sculptors who does very excellent work?
I would love to, at any time.
we will be coming to the opening.
at any time. you will always be welcome.
but what about lunch?
I will have it for supper.  so long.
she is the soul of that statue.
i wonder if i could have her pose for me.
what are you laughing at?
he can not hear you.
come in, prussic acid. what is on your mind?
i want to see the original pictures of joan gale.
hey, mattie, dig into the morgue and send up all the art you have on joan gale.
well, why so mysterious! come on, spill it.
so you can give me an argument and tell me I am wrong. do not be sil, kid.
i am right! i know I am right!
well, no one would ever suspect it. you do not sound right.
listen, jim -- and if you wisecrack while I am talking I will crown you with the inkwell.
all right, wise guy. go ahead. spill it.
jim, there is a little hokey-pokey wax museum opening up down on 14th street.
now do not that call for an extra!
i asked you to keep your trap shut!
well, you can not blame a guy for getting a little breathless with a scoop like that.
all right, you poor baboon, you can guess the rest of it!
no kiddin'. what is your idea?
just this -- i got a look at that dump a little while ago and if they have not got a wax figure of joan gale in that line-up, then I am crazy.
we will grant that.
what!
about the gale girl, i mean. where do we go from there? what of it?
listen, jo-jo. does this mean anything to you? joan gale's body swiped from the morgue -- did you ever hear of such a thing as a death mask?
i used to be married to one.
and it came to life and divorced you. i know all about that. now my idea is this: somebody swipes the girl's body, takes impression, makes a mold, produces wax figure ... bingo! ... peddles it to this old skate down there!
work that up into a comic strip and syndicate it.
let it go.
come down to earth. do you think they would dare do anything like that? do not you think they would know that figure would be recognized? shake your head real hard -- you will be all right.
all right, master mind.  but there is something cockeyed about that joint and I am going to find out what it is.
oh, by the way, another pet theory of yours just blew up.
what do you mean?
that dear, innocent judge ramsey that you were so sure got bumped off for knowing too much has been located in south america.
no kiddin'?
almost certain.
almost! I will still bet I am right, and let you write your own ticket.
yep. everything settled.
good. well, I will be seeing you.
I am glad they did not hold you downtown.
they did not have a leg to stand on. there is no case against me. it is a clumsy thing to have happen, but nothing to worry about.
well, any time i can do anything for you --
thanks.
there is no hurry. it is early.
i can not convince the inner woman that we can wait. she is howling for a bit of ground beef before we drop in on santa claus and the other dummies. I have only had a cup of coffee since last night.
why did not you eat last night?
ouch! eat? you can do a solo if you do not step on it. I am going to bow out on you.
what is the rush? there is no first act. they will all be there and we do not have to appear at any particular time.
I am hungry. I will eat the first child i see. and I have an appointment with young winton at 8:30.
you would not get mixed up with that little rotter, would you?
no? give me a chance, baby. money is music in my ears, and when his old man kicks off there'll be a million dollar tune.
if you are going to be indiscreet, i wish you would be a little more discreet about it. rich men, like winton, love you and leave you.
yeah, but they leave you plenty.
i think so.
well, thank goodness, that is settled.
I would know him anywhere.
do not lose sight of him. this is the most important thing in my life.
i would not feel too disappointed at the slimness of your audience tonight, mr. igor. the weather was against you, and the people are tired and getting over their celebration and preparing to go to work tomorrow.
quite so. quite so.  and you, my little friend, my little marie antoinette. it is kind of you to be present.
but i think these things are beautiful.
they are.  my boy, i think you are right. everyone is tired out today and now that we have seen my doors open in a new country, i am beginning to realize that i am a little tired myself. you can call that fellow in from the front. i think we will close for the night.
but why? she is the best friend I have got.
she is not anybody's friend, and i do not like you living with her. she is a bad influence.
nonsense. she is one of the nicest girls i know.
what is nice about her? ... a hard-boiled little gold digger.
i will not let you say that!
well, i do say it.
she thinks it is funny to talk the way she does, but--
do not kid yourself -- she means it.
are we going to have the same quarrel over again?
I am not quarreling, only ...
you would not have said that before you met her.
I would call it stupid at any time.
well, that is just how stupid i am. when you go riding, it will be with me. and if it is with someone else, you can make it a permanent arrangement.
so that is the way it is?
that is the way i feel about it.
I am glad you told me. good night, mr. burton.
now look here. it is not up to us to do our own detective work. I have had enough trouble over this matter. i do not want anything more to do with it.
not even if it gives you a clean bill of health?
not even then. the police are the proper people to conduct this affair. now if you have got any suspicions I will drive you to the nearest police station.
what! and let every rag in town grab a red-hot story? not so you could notice it! now, look, i want you to drive me around the corner and wait for me.
i told you i did not want to mix in it.
all right, brother. then you can go to some nice warm place, and i do not mean california.
please. I am sorry. I will see it through. what do you want me to do?
i told you what to do. drive around the corner out of sight of the house. i want to get a closer look at the place.
what! what are you talking about?
the body of joan gale!
hello, express. what is the idea, trying to outsmart the police?
I am not kidding. joan gale's body is packed in the box in the basement, and i saw the most horrible thing down there.
are you giving me this straight?
do not take my word for it. get down there yourself and give a look.
listen, copper, get a load of this. while you are chinning yourself on a bar rail, i run down this story ... my story. consider yourself my assistant.
what do you think i am?
whatever you are, you are the only one of it.
it happens that I am the law.
how quaint. but i can go any place you can.
not a very good one, i guess. he was not like anything human. he hobbled and swayed like a monkey, and the face, from the glimpse i got of it in the light from the street, was like an african war mask.
you mean he was colored?
i do not know what he was, but he made frankenstein look like a lily!
there she is! you will find joan gale in that box.
no -- no -- i -- i -- i do not want to see it.
hey, what do you think you are doing? put that stuff back!
nothing doing. this is my percentage. you birds are going to get yours. and anyhow, i found this dump.
why?
you go in for dangerous things.
darned if i don't!
--and so determined to live that I am going to get out and take a taxi if you do not watch where you are going.
i suppose this is going to sound absurd. I have only known you twenty-four hours, but I am in love with you.
it does not usually take that long, but I will forgive you -- you were in a tough spot when i met you.
no, really -- I am crazy about you.
oh, is that what caused it?
you do not believe me. you think I am just talking. will you marry me?
how much money have you got?
heaven knows. a lot.
well, that being the case, I will take it up with the board of directors. hey, listen, aviator, here we are!
mit me, kid. I have got a classic.
you here again like an evil spirit to mar my happiness?
this one's a story, but I am not going to tell you what it is. every time i tell you anything it goes haywire.
what do you mean -- haywire? you start out after murderers and come back with three-for-a-dime bootleggers. you start to solve murder mysteries and break up crap games. you are grand! I am for you! stupendous!
say, you are always razzing everything i do, but this is one time I am in.
go on, little girl, take your troubles somewhere else. i do not feel like talking to you.
was there any art on judge ramsey?
what goofy idea have you got now? do not tell me you suspect judge ramsey of stealing the body.
I am going to make you eat dirt, you soap bubble! I am going to make you beg for somebody to help you let go!
yes, sir. i got in the cab and it was layin' there on the floor.
where were you going when you got in that cab?
i do not remember. not so very far--
do not remember what day that was, do you?
no, sir. about three months ago.
you did not happen to be going to worth's place, did you?
no, sir, I am sure it was not there.
you used to go to worth's place a whole lot. what makes you sure it was not there?
well, maybe it was. i do not remember.  you got to do something for me, i can not stand it any longer -- i can't!
oh! mr. igor! -- I am so glad you are here -- i do not know why i should be, but i was a little bit afraid.
oh! so, my little friend, you have honored me by accepting my invitation of last night.
no -- i -- wanted to speak to ralph. we had a silly argument last night and i said something unkind.
oh, you children, you happy children. you have quarreled and now you are going to be friends again. and that is as it should be. never let any stupid misunderstandings come between you.
but it was really my fault.
and he will probably demand the life of anyone who agrees with you. let him think it was his fault ... he should be along very shortly .. . but be very stern before you forgive him, especially if it is your fault  ...  while you are waiting for your friend, would you like to see some new figures i have downstairs?
I would love to.
oh, please, mr. igor, I am terribly ashamed. i should not have put you to so much trouble.
it is no trouble at all, my child. this is the strange, vicarious pleasure that remains for me -- to see others enjoy the beauty i used to create.  my footing is not too secure.
let me go! let me go!
we have found immortality, you and i. you must not be afraid.
ralph! ralph!
what are you people doing out in the middle of the night?
I am after news, as usual. i wonder if it would be all right for me to slip in and look around your factory?
i guess so. but would not it be better for you to wait until the old man's here?
well, I will tell you a secret. i kinda like the old gent and I am trying to build a special sunday magazine story out of him. it might help him a whole lot. but that is a side issue -- something i do on my own time.
gee, that is great. after the bad opening that night the old boy was pretty blue. this will pep him up. have you told him about it?
no. i wanted to do it without saying anything. i think he is worth it.
ralph, come here a minute, will you?
better cut that out.  that is what happens to girls who bite their nails.  what is wrong?
you killed him!  come on with the rest of it. you killed him!
no -- i didn't. it was igor at the waxworks.
but you were in on it -- you worked for him.
no -- the only thing i did for him was to keep track of the man named worth that runs the place where you arrested me tonight.
you lie!
it is igor at the wax museum! you will find your judge embalmed in wax! he is a statue of voltaire, with all the other corpses! the whole place is a morgue -- do you hear? -- a morgue!
please, oh, please, i have not done anything to hurt you.
and i have no desire to hurt you. you will always be beautiful. think, my child, in a thousand years you will be as lovely as you are now.
what is it? what happened?
do not ask any questions. come on!
listen, stupid, could i do anything that would possibly meet with your approval?
yes, you could. cut out this rotten business and act like a lady. marry me.
that is what i said.
I am going to get even with you, you dirty stiff! I will do it!
