what kind of pies do you have?
apple, pecan, cherry, and key lime.
which do you recommend?
the key lime is great, but it is an acquired taste.
i have not had a key lime pie in ten years.
when ya had it, did ya like it?
no, but that do not mean much. i was a completely different person ten years ago. let's give key lime a day in court. and a large glass of milk.
congratulations on the curtis fox case, scagnetti. you put an end to a nightmare. the ladies of this city can get to sleep again, and they have you to thank.
thank you, sir.
dewight mcclusky of the california prison board. take a seat please.
who isn't?
you been followin' the news coverage?
they have been separated since their incarceration in a couple of penitentiaries---
susanville, soledade.
they have killed a shitload of inmates and guards---
five inmates, eight guards and one psychiatrist all in one year's time... very good. you do keep up with the headlines.
look, our situation in a nutshell is, no prison wants 'em, no prison will take 'em. I am even talkin' hellholes, where the warden's as hard as a bar of iron. no one wants those fuckin' assholes behind their walls, dealin' with 'em day in, day out.
i can appreciate that.
so can we. so the solution to our little problem is we had them deemed crazy. and we are shippin' 'em to nystrom asylum for the criminally insane.
lobotomy bay?
you have heard of it?
so, how do i fit into this scheme?
the public loves you jack...you do not mind if i call you jack, do you?
by all means.
you are a celebrated cop. twenty-six years on the force, a best-seller out on paperback...
you are a breathing icon of justice and that is why you were chosen to deliver mr. and mrs. knox. we, the prison board we, knows that once you get them on the road if anything should happen, an escape attempt, an accident, fire, anything...jack 'supercop' scagnetti would be there to look out for his public's best interests.
i see.
you write the script jack, call it, 'showdown in mojave: the extermination of mickey and mallory', whatever... have we found our man?
who is the song bird?
mickey's better half herself. mallory knox. this little lady drowned her father in a fish tank.
because they would not give them their blessing for marriage.
am not love grand.
pleased to meet ya, jack. i read your book. I am impressed. good work on curtis fox.
thanks.
what is the travelling arrangements?
well, mickey and mallory can not be together. so, we will put you on one of our prison busses and you will take mallory first, then you will come back for mickey.
and where do you keep mickey?
we got his stinkin' ass in the deepest, darkest cell in the whole place. but it just so happens that right now he is got a special visitor.
who?
wayne gayle.
wayne gayle!
hello mickey. we have never been introduced, but I am wayne gayle. i do not know if you have ever heard of me or remember me. i was one of the reporters outside the courthouse during your trial---
everybody knows who you are. you are famous.
the episode we did on mickey and mallory was one of our most popular ones.
did you ever do one on wayne gacy?
yes.
whose ratings were higher?
yours.
how 'bout ted bundy? ever do one on him?
yes. yours got the larger nielson share.
good...yuppie piece of shit.
what I would like to do---
how 'bout manson?
manson beat you.
yeah, it is pretty hard to beat the king.
we have been waiting to do a follow up episode on you for a long time. and that time has definitely come.  i feel it is apparent to anyone who is hip to what is going on that the prison board has thrown the constitution straight out the fuckin' window. you and mallory may be killers, but you are not insane. you belong in a prison, not in an asylum. the prison board is blatantly railroading you into a hospital for the sole purpose of turning you into vegetables. now some people are saying, 'so what?' i am not one of those people. if we avert our eyes while they do this to you, we give them permission to do it again whenever they see fit. today they wipe clean your mind because they feel your actions are dangerous, tomorrow they wipe clean my mind because they feel what i say is dangerous. where does it all stop?
my problem mickey, is that you do not exactly inspire empathy. I am all alone on this. i need your help. i want what the prison board is doing to be the focus of our follow up episode. now i have interviews with chairman of the prison board dewight mcclusky about this issue. and I am tellin' ya, mickey, he looks bad. the two psychologists they used for their psychiatric kangaroo court will not talk to us, which always looks bad. i have an interview with both the judge of your trial, bert steinsma, and the psychologist and author, emil reinghold, both of which discount the notion that you are insane. you put that all together, and what the state is doing becomes obvious. but the network is not satisfied. they feel the show needs another element. it needs you. in order to put the show on the air, i need to get an interview with you. you have not talked to the press since your trial. now, a few days before you get transferred to an asylum, you grant an interview on television with wayne gayle. we are talkin' a media event here. every son of a bitch out the with a tv set's going to tune in to see that. we will make their motives so blatant, we will shame 'em into dropping the whole thing. at least for a little while, the publicity would keep them from just giving you and mallory lobotomies. well, whatta ya say?
have you talked to mallory about this?
she will not even see me, mickey. now you are not supposed to know anything about what is going on with her, but I am going to tell ya somethin'. since you two've been sentenced, mallory has not spoken one word.
she does not talk?
not to anybody. she sings.
she sings? what does she sing?
songs. 'he's a rebel', 'leader of the pack', 'town without pity', that dusty springfield song 'i only want to be with you'. that is what i hear anyway. her behaviour was the main thing the doctors' report used against you. so even if she would see me, which she won't, i could not put her on camera anyway. if i ask her, 'mallory, are you insane?' and she starts singing 'dead skunk in the middle of the road', that blows our whole case.
drink up! this is a celebration. this is the day we received word we were going to make television history. we are going to have the first sit down, in depth interview with the most charismatic serial killer ever, one day before he is being shipped to a mental hospital for the rest of his life. this is one of those golden moments that happens maybe only four times in a lucky journalist's career. this is wallace with noriega, this is elton john confessing his bi-sexuality to the rolling stone, this is the tearful reporting of the hindenberg disaster, this is truffaut setting the record straight on hitchcock, this is a robert capa photo, this is woodward and bernstien meeting deep throat in an underground parking lot, this is john reid reporting 'the ten days that shook the world', this is the hippies' bloody palms at kent state, the maysles brothers at altamont, this is the nixon/frost interviews...
this is raymond burr witnessing the destruction of tokyo by godzilla.
we got tonight and tomorrow to get our shit together. the day after that they are shippin' mallory. that is when we do the mickey knox interview, 'cause the next day he goes.
would the network really not run it without the interview?
are you kidding? the last thing they expected was mickey knox to get up close and personal. they wanted a follow up episode and would have taken anything i had given them. I am not going to tell mickey knox that. I am going to make him think his grey matter depends on it. when i told woody and the brass about this coup, they practically shit a brick. I am talkin' an adobe brick. they want to expand the show to a hour, and they want it on immediately.
how immediate is immediately?
next week's episode.
so unruly julie's comin' with me and planning the interview.  you two go down to the editing bay, take the old footage and the new footage, put it together, and see what we got. get it into shape so when we finish the interview, we can just stick it in.
when do you want the assembly?
tomorrow.
okay, boys, let's have it.
well, basically, what we did was put part of the old show on first...
now we got to film a new intro for the follow up episode. but we put the intro for the first episode at the beginning temporarily so you can see it with some scope.
i hear ya. play.
i admire them.
i do, too.
but how can you say that?
they are mesmerising.
hypnotizing.
have you seen 'pumping iron?'
yes.
then you have seen the scene where arnold schwartzenegger is talking to lou ferigno.
yes.
through the power of the simple word---
and a snake-eye glare.
---and a snake-eye glare, arnold was able to totally psyche out any confidence ferigno had.
he squashed him mentally before physically defeating him.
he had the edge. the mind's edge.
mickey and mallory have that edge.
only on a much grander scale.
they have hypnotized the nation.
schwartzenegger was the king of the edge before they came along.
yes.
yes.
how can you say that you 'admire' them?
it is like this, wayne. two people are standing in a dark room waiting for the other to attack. these two people can not see each other, yet they know they are there. now, they can either stand in the dark room forever waiting until they die of boredom, or one of them can make the first move.
why can not they just shake hands and be friends?
they can not because neither knows if the other is a deranged senseless killer like the knoxs. so, you may as well make the first move.
and they made the first move?
unfortunately, yes.
but you see, that is okay, wayne.
why?
they passed the 'edge' along to us.
how so?
by taking away our legs. now we have to fight harder to get ahead than anyone else you will find in this gym. probably the whole city. they gave us the fighting spirit. before this happened i was content. now I am pissed off. now I am half a man and I have got to work like the devil to get whole again.
but you will never be whole again.
never is a very long time, wayne. a word only the weak use. I am not a sore loser. even if i do not have a leg to stand on, I am going to get up and fight this world until I am on top again.
that is the mickey and mallory way.
that is the way of the world.
they are shocking the world into remembering the primal law.
survival of the fittest.
they had us tied down during one of their house raids, you have seen the headlines, and they were taking a chainsaw to our legs before they were going to kill us.
just for fun, i guess.
and then mallory stops mickey and says, 'hey, these are the brothers hun.'
mickey stops sawin' on my leg and says, 'oh my god, I am your biggest fan!'
apparently, they have seen all our films.
they were especially influenced by 'conquering huns of neptune.'
so, mallory calls 911 and they took off.
they actually apologized.
i can not go. I am too fucked up.
I am not saying it is not going to hurt, but--
i can not run with you, mickey! i really want to. if i could, i would, but i can't. i got to stay here. but you can still get out of here.
no fuckin' way! no fuckin' way!
if they stay, they will catch you, and they do not have to catch you---
no fuckin' way!
mickey, you are wasting time!
i do not give a damn if a million united states marines, all whistling the halls of montezuma, are going to come marchin' down this alley any second. there am not not fuckin' way in hell I am leaving you. and that is that!
yeah baby.
you made every day like kindergarten.
mickey, how do you feel about cross- examining grace mulberry?
I am keen with anticipation.
naw, she do not mind.
grace. I would like to talk to you about your murdered brother tim, if you feel up to it.
more or less.
more or less...
when you study the martial arts, they give out belts that come in different colors to signify what level you are at in your training. am i correct on that point?
yes you are.
what was the color of tim's belt?
the style of fighting that tim studied did not believe in belts.
is that a fact? well then, grace, could you tell us what form of martial arts it was that tim was schooled in?
tim studied several styles, but his favorite was jeet kune do.
jeet kune do...now i did some research on that form of fighting, and i found out that jeet kune do was a style developed by bruce lee. did you know that?
yes, i did. that is why tim studied it. because it was bruce lee's fighting style.
now, while i freely admit total ignorance on the subject, i have heard of bruce lee. and i was under the impression that bruce lee was one of the, if not the greatest fighter in the history of martial arts.
that is what tim said.
so, i think it would be safe to say that anybody who studied the fighting style that bruce lee, arguably the greatest martial artist of all times, developed for nine years, that would be a fella who could defend himself. would you describe tim that way, grace?
yes, i would.
point of fact, were not tim's hands registered as lethal weapons?
yes, they were.
that means his hands are considered a weapon like a gun or a knife. am i correct on that point?
yes, you are.
thank you. grace, there is one other thing...
what...
why are mickey and mallory being moved to an asylum? and who made the decision?
the prison board made the decision. a board of which i belong. we are the who. the why is simple. mickey and mallory are mentally ill and need to be under a doctor's care, where hopefully they will receive the help they need.
mickey and mallory were deemed competent in a mental examination before their trial. I am confused. what is changed?
well, since that time, they have killed one person during their trail. and since their incarceration, they have killed one psychologist along with several guards and inmates.
when they were found competent before, they had already killed fifty people. other than the fact they are a disciplinary problem, which frankly should not surprise anyone, i still do not see where this situation is any different then it was before. so, i ask you again, mr. mcclusky, what is changed?
what is changed, mr. gayle, is our minds. we felt they were competent a year ago. a year has passed, sir, a year where they were under close observation, day in and day out, and their behaviour has led us to believe we were wrong.
who is we?
the prison board and the doctors who examined them.
were any of the doctors who made the first evaluation on the knoxs mental state asked to re-examine them?
using the same doctors is not common practice.
i take it by your answer it was a whole new team?
now that you bring it up, yes. they were different men. i had not really thought that much about it. since many psychiatric opinions are, by a rule, sought out for this kind of situation. what do you think normally happens? the knoxs are assigned a family psychologist that takes care of them throughout the rest of their lives? the state does not work like that.
good work, my brothers. fan-fuckin'- tastic! i think that interview stuff's too long, we can lose some of that. keep the girls, keep the long hairs, keep the hun brothers, keep the black guy, keep the movie shit, and keep the cop at the donut shop. lose the rest. and cut the interview with the prison board fellow before that. cut it after i ask, 'i take it by your answer it was a whole new team.' do not even let him answer. fuck him. then cut to me talking about the two chicken shit psychiatrists and straight in dr. reinghold laughing.
okay.
how is it working, scotty?
perfecto!
you can not be serious?
I am as serious about that as i am about going back to the donut store, and dipping that stupid mexican's head into the batter for forgetting my chocolate cream filled. gimme that other box.
huh uh. this dozen is for mickey.
that dumbass probably put my chocolate cream filled in there by mistake.
roger, no.
what is the big deal? take out my chocolate cream filled, put one of these roasted coconut---
roger, do you understand what the word 'no' means? it is important we establish a rapport. something as simple as a dozen donuts can mean the world to somebody who has not had a donut in a year.
so you are giving a man who butchers whole families, little babies included, my chocolate cream filled?
okay, guys, we are here. l.a. county jail. julie, just park in the front.
wayne---
roger, I am starting to get pissed. just drop this fuckin' donut shit, and gather your gear.
hello, mr. gayle. I am phil wurlitzer. we talked on the phone. it is a pleasure to meet you.
same here. let me introduce my crew. scott...roger...and unruly julie ...this is...i'm sorry. what is your title again?
I am the superintendent here at l.a. county jail. me and my deputies are who you will be working with while you are here.
that sounds great. look, i do not want any of this to intimidate you. this is not going to be a big deal. this is going to be very easy.  i need to talk with mr. wurlitzer. you guys get your equipment ready, power up the van and confirm a transmission code for the remote. julie come with me.
how is everything coming, mr. gayle?
everything's coming along just fine. phil, i wanted to know if i could have a small word with you.
by all means.
you met the kids i have working for me? great bunch, are not they?
oh yes, indeed. top flight.
scott, genius cameraman, roger, magician with sound. unruly julie, i could sooner do without my arm than unruly julie.
is that her real name?
just a little nickname. yep, they are my kids and they are all i need. after working together these past coupla years, we are like well-oiled machinery. no, more like a formula race car. no, scratch that one, too. what we are really like is a swiss watch. small, intricate, compact...it should not work as well as it does, but it does. because of the craftsmanship, the expertise, and the artist's loving hand.
i see.
now, phil, i do not know if you have ever been on a set before---
ya know, i was.
really?
i was on the 'dukes of hazzard' set about eight years ago.
well...small world. well, then, you know firsthand how hollywood does things. lights all over the place, generators, a hundred and fifty crew members---
oh, that 'dukes of hazzard' show, there was probably ninety-five people there, maybe more.
see what i mean? it is a funny business, is not it?
it sure is.
they got a asshole over here.  a asshole sitting down reading a magazine over there.  a asshole perched up there.  assholes everywhere. hey, maybe if we were doin' that kiss, kiss, bang, bang stuff we would need all those assholes, too. what we are about is intimacy. we are about two people having a conversation. say i was interviewing you. all i want you to worry about is what i ask you. i want a trust to develop. if you are thinking about all this...  ...you're not going to relax, a trust will not develop, we will be talking a each other instead of to each other, there will be no chance for intimacy.
well, just what the hell do you expect me to do?
lose 'em.
mr. gayle, do you have the slightest idea how dangerous knox is?
mr. wurlitzer, i assure you, i am very familiar with mickey knox's career.
since he and his wife have been in custody, they have killed---
do not recite the fact to me. I am sure i know 'em better than you do.
well, let me let you in on one more fact you obviously do not know. if i were to take my men away, mickey knox would snap your neck like a twig.
one...i can take care of myself. i grew up in a tough neighbourhood, and I have handled some pretty rough customers in my day. mickey knox does not scare me. two...i'm a journalist, and I am prepared to take that risk. three...it am not going to happen. believe me when i tell you, it is in mickey knox's own best interest to play this game according to hoyle.  wait a minute. we have gotten into a advisory relationship here, which is not what i want.  but seriously, phil, look at this.
we got one...two...three...four ...five...six...seven...eight. i mean jesus christ, phil, that is too much. let's lose some of these guys.
wayne, if it was anybody else---
phil, I am just scared he is going to clam up on me with all these sheriffs all over the place. they hate him. he hates them. what kinda intimacy am i going to create with all this hate in the air. even you and i feel it.
what are we talking about?
two guys?
okay. I will take two guys off.
no, no, no, no, no, no, i mean only two guys.
i can not do that. five guys.
three.
I will cut it in half. four guys, but that is it.
okay now, before we get started here, there is a few things we have to get clear about.
all right, mickey.
let's discuss it when I am unbound.
how come you never talk?
she was born without a tongue.
oh my god!  sorry.
so we got a deal. four deputies---
and me.
why do not we make it three deputies and you?
why do not i have mickey thrown back into his cell and we can forget the whole thing?
chill out, phill. four deputies and you, i can live with that. we are about ready to go here, so let's get rid of these other assholes.
do not call my men assholes.
i did not mean they were assholes. i mean if they are leaving, get 'em outta here.
say something.
what?
anything.
ah...fine. let me make an adjustment here, and we will be ready to rock 'n roll. oh...uh, the dumbass at the donut place put a chocolate cream filled i asked for in your box.
there is a chocolate cream filled in there?
yeah. ya see, i ordered that special.
tough titty, it is mine now.
look, I will trade you.
roger, enough with the fucking donuts! what did i tell you. stop bothering mickey, and get behind your nagra.
fine. roger, what the hell are you doing? you are bothering the serial killer.
sorry about that.
do not worry about it.
we are about ready to go here. are you ready?
let's do it.
roger?
rockin'!
scotty?
rollin'...and speed!
slate it.
so, mickey, tell us what you do for fun.
aside from the obvious?
much obliged. what do i do for fun? do you want to know what i do for fun or what i did for fun?
what? oh, aaahhh, what you did for fun for starters.
what i did for fun for starters.  well, something i used to do...always was a lot of fun...  no, scratch that. let me think of something else. in fact, why do not we come back to that question. ask me something else.
do you miss mallory?
of course, i miss mallory. she is my wife. i have not seen her in a long time. what a stupid question.
then was it worth it?
was what worth it?
was massacring all those people worth being separated from your wife for the rest of your life?
do you think up these questions or the girl with no tongue?
no, mickey, i can not let you get away with that shit. answer the question. was it worth it? you have not seen, heard, or smelled mallory in a year. was it worth it?
was an instant of purity worth a lifetime lie? yeah, it was.
excuse me, did you say an instant of purity? what was the instant of purity? the bodies you left behind on your bloody trail?
that is only part of it. i mean, it is a big, big, big part. but it is only the chorus, it is not the whole song.
please explain to me, mickey, where is the purity that you could not live without in five year old danny millhouse's blown off head? where is the purity in forty-eight people who are no longer on this planet because they met you and mallory? what is so fucking pure about that?
camera jam! I am sorry wayne. god.
fucking dammit! mickey hold onto that thought. reload, quick!
you just said an instant of purity was preferrable to a lifetime lie. i do not understand. what is so pure about forty-eight dead bodies?
you will never understand. me and you, wayne, we are not even the same species. i used to be you...then i evolved. from where you are standing, you are a man. from where I am standing, you are a ape. I am here...i'm right here... and you...you're somewhere else, man. you say why? i say why not?
tell me about the purity.
it is not that easy, wayne. donuts and a smoke only get you so far. you are going to have to do your job.
okay...okay...i'll buy that. we will move on and come back later.
I am sure we will.
describe mallory.
describe mallory? okay. she is pretty, she is got blonde hair, two eyes, two feet, two hands, ten fingers...
do not play dumb with me, mickey. you know what i mean. describe mallory.  what is up here?  what is in here?
that is indescribable.
well, riddle me this, batman. how do you feel about the fact that you are never going to see mallory again?
says who?
says the united states of america.
when have they ever been right?
...one night i was asleep, and a noise wakes me up. i thought, 'oh shit, somebody is broken in.' i did not own a gun, so i go into the living room with a fucking umbrella. okay, it turned out to be nothing. god made the noise. who knows?
how is it goin'?
what the hell happened to you?
you should see the other bitch. what time you got?
two-thirty. shhh...
everybody thought I would gone crazy. the cops, my mom, everybody. but you see, they all missed the point of the story. i was not crazy. but when i was holding the shotgun, it all became clear. i realized for the first time my one true calling in life. I am a natural born killer.
okay, let's cut it.
it is going to be beautiful.
super cool.  this is great stuff. how ya doin'?
i could go for a coke.
could i get a coke for mickey?
I am not running out and getting that piece of shit a coke.
fine.  julie, why do not you make a food run?  what is around here?
are you all set?
yeah. bus is all gassed up and ready to roll.
i assigned you bingham and washington to go along.
yeah, we met. they are good men.
they are real goddamn good. they will be there for when ya need 'em. where are they?
waitin' in the lounge.
how 'bout mallory?
coolin' her jets in a holding cell.
nothing for me. I am leavin'.
me, neither. i do not eat meat.
jack, could you stay up here for a while?
yeah, sure.
I am taking one of these men. yates, come with me.
could we go with you and film it?
stay up here and finish your interview, I have got to see what the hell's going on down there before i can take responsibility for you to film there.
you guys wanna hear a joke i heard?
sure.
now, I am no comedian, but it is pretty funny. it is a little johnny joke. now in the joke, little johnny can not talk. and little johnny's teenage sister asks her mother if she can go out on a date.
looks like we got a mexican standoff.
slide the shotgun over here, put your hands behind your head, put your forehead on the floor.
or what? you will wound me? i can blow you in half and you know it.
I have never wounded anything in my life. i got you locked right between the eyes.
did you ever see 'eldorado?'
what?
you guys stay on your bellies.
yes, sir.
donut, get your camera. see if it is broke.
let me check on scott. he is hurt bad.
scott's dead. and unless you wanna play follow the leader, shut up and do as you are told.
how is it?
not good.
do you have a back up.
it is video.
even better. wayne call your station, tell 'em we are going live a little early today. make it happen!
i want two men stationed in that tier, and i want men with rifles all along the walkway.
capt'n!
here's the layout of the laundry room.
where do the air ducts lead?
here.
what do you think, pitney? how much explosives do you think that they really have in there?
it is hard to say capt'n.
take a wild stab!
I will say enough to destroy this wing.
the entire wing?
that is my opinion.
jesus...
okay, buddy boy, where ya keepin' mallory? i know she is still here, and i know you know where. so, start talking or my first work as a director will be your death scene.
she is in the holding cell, on this floor.
you are taking us to that holding cell now.  all right, cut!
yeah.
okay, wayne, step forward.
you ready, donut?
ready.
wagons, hooaaa!
okay, we are going out that door, and we are going to march down the hall and right out of the building.  donut said something about a news van.
yeah, we have a van.
where is it parked?
out front.
let me have the keys.
mickey, can i talk to you alone?
no.
this is crazy. you can not escape like this.
probably not, but we are going to give it the old college try.
we will all be killed.
now, when we get out there, you do what we say or it is curtains. if we say move, you move. if we say left, you move left. if we say right, you move right. if we say mole, you dig a hole. got it?
are we in a big hurry?
you got something you want to do?
yeah.
by all means, knock yourself out.
thanks. roll 'em, donut.
mickey!
do not stop!
has not it?
we still got a few tricks up our sleeves.
that is what i thought. you tell them that. when we go down those stairs, i want you to scream what you just told me. 'my name is wayne gayle! i am the star of american maniacs watched every week by'-- how many people?
on average forty million.
'every week by forty million people. i am a respected journalist.' have you won any awards?
are you kidding? the golden globe, the edward r. murrow award...
'respected journalist'-- on your knees...
...'winner of the golden globe and the edward r. murrow award among others.' tell 'em the name of your personal lawyer, his firm, his address, and phone number. tell 'em about the mayor and the unemployment lines. you getting the idea?
yes.
say it. scream it. all the way out the front door and into your van. and if you stop screaming, i swear to god I will blow your head off.
got it.
we am not got all fuckin' day!
without any further ado, mickey and mallory...
mallory, what did you think of mickey's plan? did you think it would work?
it was not 'till we got on the ground floor that i totally realized they were not going to shoot unless we shot first. when we got out of the stairwell, i remember thinking, 'oh my god. this might work.' but mickey knew it would work all along. there was not any doubt in his mind. it is not like there was and he just did not show it. he knew it would work.
what did you think then?
i wondered how long it would be before we would get to be alone together. and i wondered if i could wait that long.
did you have anything to do with the riot in the laundry room?
have not you been listening to a fuckin' word i said? ...oh, I am sorry. can i say fuckin'? i can't, can i?
try to keep it to a minimum.
we had nothing to do with that riot. that riot was just -- whatchmacallit --
divine intervention.
what he said. we did not know jack shit about and riot. it just happened. it was kismet. we did not even know those people. how are we supposed to organize a riot when we have been in fuckin' isolation for the past year? just bleep out the fucks and jack shits.  i mean, it is not like we care. if they wanna say we masterminded the whole thing, let 'em. it will not exactly keep us up at night. but you said you wanted the truth, and the truth is we were just lucky.
c'mon, c'mon, let's hurry this up.
so, what now?
well, now me and mickey are going to take it easy. just enjoy each other's company, stop and smell the roses, notice the color purple, stuff like that.
how do you intend to disappear? you are probably the most famous couple in america.
well, back in slave times they had a thing called the underground railroad. and we got a whole fan club out there just waiting to be conductors.  so, you kids out there, keep the faith. cause mickey and mallory will be comin' to your town real soon.
just wait one fucking minute.
i said I would give you a interview. now unless I am mistaken, we just did a interview.  we did an interview, did not we?
looked like an interview to me.
i said we would give you an interview. i never said we would not kill you.
...developed between the three of us. we are kindda in this together, do not ya think?
no. not really.
do not touch those triggers! please. i think I have already proven that a live wayne gayle is much more better that a dead...way-- gayle. i was your passport out of jail, not duncan homolka. but me! I will be your passport outta---
just save your breath, wayne. we hate you. if anybody in the fuckin' world deserves to die, it is you.
wait! you can not kill me. mickey and mallory always leave somebody alive to tell the tale.
we are.  your camera.
let's make a little music, colorada.
no!!!
