howard ... what the hell?  what're you doing?
dogs ... season starts tomorrow.  it keeps me calm.  i don't like going back into the same building four times.
mein kampf?
"a warrior with nerves of steel is yet broken by a thread of silk." nietzsche.
personally i'd prefer a greyhound with a shot of speed.
remember -- listen up!  fire team discipline is there at all times. keep your radios on at all times during the entire penetration.  check yourselves.  phony id's, no wallets, no keys.  we rendezvous where?  the watergate, room 214.  when?  at zero three-hundred.
let's get the fuck out of here, shall we, ladies?
anything goes wrong, head for your homes, just sit tight -- you'll hear from me or howard.
personally, i'll be calling the president of the united states.
this is june twentieth?
it's marked.  also there's june twenty third.  and this year -- march twenty first.  those are the ones ...
sorry ...
... go on.
... y'know al, if hoover was alive none of this would've happened.  he would've protected the president.
mr. hoover was a realist.
i trusted mitchell.  it was that damn big mouth wife of his.
at least mitchell stood up to it.
not like the others -- dean, mccord, the rest ... we never got our side of the story out, al.  people've forgotten.  i mean: "fuck you, mr. president, fuck you tricia, fuck you julie!" and all that shit, just words, but what violence!  the tear gassing, the riots, burning the draft cards, black panthers -- we fixed it, al, and they hate me for it -- the double dealing bastards.  they lionize that traitor, ellsberg, for stealing secrets, but they jump all over me 'cause it's nixon.  ... they've always hated nixon.
may i say something, mr. president?
there's no secrets here, al.
you've never been a greater example to the country than you are now, sir, but ... but you need to get out more, sir, and talk to the people.  no one i know feels ... close to you.
no, sir, you did not.
damn right.  and there's still a helluva lotta people out there who wanna believe ... that's the point, isn't it?  they wanna believe in the president.
you're all set, sir.  just push this button.  good night, mr. president.
you know, al, men in your profession ... you give 'em a pistol and you leave the room.
i don't have a pistol.
'night, al.
they did what?!  i don't understand. why'd they go into o'brien's office in the first place?
evidently to install bugs and photograph documents.
but o'brien doesn't even use that office.  the democrats've moved to miami.  there's nothing there!
it was just a fishing expedition. apparently it was their fourth attempt at the dnc.
their fourth!
it's possible they were looking for evidence of an illegal howard hughes donation to the democrats, so the democrats couldn't make an issue of your hughes money.
contributions!  it was a legal contribution.  who the hell authorized this?  colson?
colson doesn't know about it; he's pure as a virgin on this one.  it's just not clear the burglars knew what they were looking for.  they were heading to mcgovern's office later that night.
jesus!  did mitchell know?
mitchell's out of his mind now. martha just put her head through a plate-glass window.
jesus!  through a window?
it was her wrist.  and it was through a plate-glass door.
anyway, they had to take her to bellevue.  maybe she'll stay this time.
martha's an idiot, she'll do anything to get john's attention.  if mitchell'd been minding the store instead of that nut martha we wouldn't have that kid magruder runnin' some third-rate burglary!  was he smoking pot?
mitchell?
no!  magruder!  that sonofabitch tests my quaker patience to the breaking point.
the bigger problem i see is this guy who was arrested, mccord -- james mccord -- he headed up security for the committee to re-elect.  he turns out to be ex-cia.
"ex-cia"?  there's no such thing as "ex-cia," john -- they're all ivy league establishment.  is he one of these guys with a beef against us?
mccord? ...
find out what the hell he was doing at "creep."  this could be trouble. these cia guys don't miss a trick. this could be a set-up.
we feel the bigger concern is gordon liddy ...
that fruitcake!  what about him?
well, you know, sir, he's a nut.  he used to work here with the "plumbers" and now he's running this watergate caper.  you remember his plan to firebomb the brookings using cubans as firemen?  he wanted to buy a damned fire truck!  magruder thinks he's just nutty enough to go off the reservation.
what's liddy got?
apparently he was using some campaign cash that was laundered for us through mexico.  the fbi's onto it.  we could have a problem with that.
i don't have time for all this shit!  just handle it, bob!  keep it out of the white house.  what else? kissinger's waiting -- he's gonna throw a tantrum again if i don't see him, threatening to quit ... again.
well, sir ... it turns out -- one of the people implicated is still, you see, on our white house payroll.
who?  not another goddamn cuban?
hunt?  howard hunt?
he left his white house phone number in his hotel room.
he works for colson.  he used him on the pentagon papers.  we're trying to figure out when he officially stopped being a white house consultant.  after the arrest he dumped his wiretapping stuff into his white house safe.
howard hunt is working for the white house?  no shit!  this is goddamn disneyland!  since when?
on the list of horribles, i know what he is.  and i know what he tracks back to.  you say he was involved in the plumbers?
definitely.  colson had him trying to break into bremer's apartment after bremer shot wallace, to plant mcgovern campaign literature.
i had nothing to do with that.  was he ... in the ellsberg thing?
yes, you approved it, sir.
i did?
it was right after the pentagon papers broke.  they went in to get his psychiatric records.
fucking hell.
we were working on china.
mr. president, we are in a revolutionary situation.  we are under siege -- black panthers, weathermen; the state department under rogers is leaking like a sieve.  and now this insignificant little shit ellsberg publishing all the diplomatic secrets of this country will destroy our ability to conduct foreign policy.
here, tim ... tim.  i'm as frustrated as you, henry, but don't you think this one's a democrat problem.  they started the war; it makes them look bad.
goddamn! how long have we had this fucking dog?!  two years, he still doesn't come!  we need a dog that looks happy when the press is around.
well, he's photogenic.  let's try dog bones?
fuck it!  he doesn't like me, john!  it's your fault, henry.
i beg your pardon --
it's your people who are leaking to the times.  wasn't this ellsberg a student of yours at harvard?  he was your idea; why are you suddenly running for cover?
he was, he was.  we taught a class together at harvard.  but you know these back-stabbing ivy league intellectuals, they can't ...
no, henry.  i don't.
he's turned into a drug fiend, he shot people from helicopters in vietnam, he has sexual relations with his wife in front of their children.  he sees a shrink in l.a.  he's all fucked up. now he's trying to be a hero to the liberals ... if he gets away with it, everybody will follow his lead.  he must be stopped at all costs.
we can prosecute the new york times, go for an injunction ...
... but it's not, bottom-line, gonna change a goddamn thing, john.  the question is: how do we screw ellsberg so bad it puts the fear of god into all leakers?
who are you talking to like this, you insignificant shit ...
... and what do we get for it?  gobs and gobs of bullshit, gossip, nothing! someone is leaking. we've got to stop the leaks, henry, at any cost, do you hear me?  then we can go for the big play -- china, russia.
well, why not?
our own intelligence capability -- to fix the leaks?
i like it.  i like the idea.
is it legal?  i mean has anyone ever done it before?
sure.  lyndon, jfk, fdr -- i mean, truman cut the shit out of my investigation of hiss back in '48.
it was illegal, what he did.
you know, this kinda thing, you gotta be brutal.  a leak happens, the whole damn place should be fired.  really. you do it like the germans in world war ii.  if they went through these towns and a sniper hit one of them, they'd line the whole goddamned town up and say: "until you talk you're all getting shot."  i really think that's what has to be done.  i don't think you can be mr. nice-guy anymore ...
the lie?
you remember, john, in '48 -- no one believed alger hiss was a communist. except me.  they loved hiss just like they loved this ellsberg character. east coast, ivy league.  he was their kind.  i was dirt to them.  nothing.
and dick beat the shit out of them.
but i wouldn't have if hiss hadn't lied about knowing chambers.  the documents were old and out of date, like these pentagon papers.  the key thing we proved was that hiss was a liar.  then people bought it that he was a spy.  it's the lie that gets you.
hiss was protecting his wife.  i've always believed that.
when they know you've got something to protect, that's when they fuck you!
alright, henry -- we're gonna go your way.  crush this ellsberg character the same way we did hiss!
there's no other choice.
we're gonna hit him so hard he looks like everything that's sick and evil about the eastern establishment.  you and your "plumbers" are gonna find dirt on this guy -- let's see him going to the bathroom in front of the american public!  and when we finish with him, they'll crucify him!
howard hunt? ... jesus christ, you open up that scab ... and you uncover a lot of pus.
what do you mean, sir?
where's hunt now?
in hiding.  he sent liddy to talk to me.
and?
he wants money.
pay him.
pay him?  i told him to get out of the country.  it's crazy to start ...
what the hell are you doing, ehrlichman?  screwing with the cia?  i don't care how much he wants -- pay him.
but what are we paying him for?
silence!
but, sir, you're covered -- no one here gave orders to break into the damned watergate.  we're clean.  it's only the ellsberg thing, and if that comes out, it's "national security."
"security" is not strong enough.
how about a comint classification?  we put it on the huston plan.  even the designation is classified.
"national priority."
"national security priority restricted and controlled secret."
we'll work on it.  i say we cut ourselves loose from these clowns and that's all there is to it.
it's more than that.  it could be more than that.  i want hunt paid.
uh, we've never done this before, sir ... how do we pay?  in ... hundreds?  do you fill a black bag full of unmarked bills?
this is not a joke, john!
no, sir.
we should set up a cuban defense fund on this; take care of all of them.
should we talk to trini about paying these guys?  or maybe chotiner?
no, keep trini out of this. chotiner's too old.  and for god's sake, keep colson out.  it's time to baptize our young counsel.  that means dean can never talk about it.  attorney-client privilege.  get to it.  and dean -- you stay close on this.
bob, did i approve the ellsberg thing? you know, i'm glad we tape all these conversations because ... i never approved that break-in at ellsberg's psychiatrist.  or maybe i approved it after the fact?  someday we've got to start transcribing the tapes.
you approved that before the fact, because i went over it with you.  but ...
uh, no one, of course, is going to see these tapes, but ...
that's right, and it's more a problem for ehrlichman.  he fixed hunt up with the phony cia id's, but ... what else does hunt have on us?
we've got to turn off the fbi.  you just go to the cia, bob, and tell helms that howard hunt is blackmailing the president.  tell him that hunt and his cuban friends know too damn much, and if he goes public, it would be a fiasco for the cia.  he'll know what i'm talking about.
all right.
play it tough.  that's the way they play it and that's the way we're going to play it.  don't lie to helms and say there's no involvement, but just say this is sort of a comedy of errors, bizarre, without getting into it.  say the president believes it's going to open up the whole bay of pigs thing again.  tell helms he should call the fbi, call pat gray, and say that we wish for the sake of the country -- don't go any further into this hanky-panky, period!
the bay of pigs? ... that was kennedy's screw-up.  how does that threaten us?
just do what i say, bob.
yes, sir, but ... do you think gray'll go for it?
pat gray'll do anything we ask him. that's why i appointed him.
he'll need a pretext.  he'll never figure one out for himself.
christ, you're right -- gray makes jerry ford look like mozart.  just have helms call him.  helms can scare anybody.
the only problem with that, sir -- it gets us into obstruction of justice.
it's got nothing to do with justice. it's national security.
how is this national security?
because the president says it is.  my job is to protect this country from its enemies, and its enemies are inside the walls.
i suppose you thought the presidency was above this sort of thing.
sir?
this isn't a "moral" issue, bob.  we have to keep our enemies at bay or our whole program is gonna go down the tubes.  the fbi is filled with people who are pissed that i put gray in and not one of their own.  vietnam, china, the soviet union: when you look at the big picture, bob, you'll see we're doing a hell of a lotta good in this world.  let's not screw it up with some shit-ass, third-rate burglary.
i'll talk to helms.  oh, pat asked if you're coming to the residence for dinner tonight.
no, no, not tonight.  don't let her in here.  i have too much to do.
yes, sir.  i'll talk to helms, and, uh ... what's our press position on this watergate thing?  what do i tell ziegler to tell them?
... when we consider the lineup of the world, we find there are 590 million people on our side, 800 million on the communist side, and 600 million who are neutral.  the odds are 5 to 3 against us ...
he wouldn't do the makeup.  said it was for queers.
i think ... i think ... that's the sort of very dangerous and irresponsible suggestion that ... helping the cuban exiles who oppose castro would, uh ... not only be a violation of international law, it would be ...
he's treading water.  don't mention khrushchev.
... an open invitation for mr. khrushchev to become involved in latin america.  we would lose all our friends in latin america.
meanwhile, what happens to the country?
the bastard!  if i'd called his shot on cuba i would've won.  he made me look soft.
we lost ...
i know ...
it's hard to lose ...
it makes us human ...
it's not fair, buddy.  i can take the insults; i can take the name-calling. but i can't take the losing.  i hate it.
we don't have to put ourselves through this again, dick.
what do you mean?  we worked for it. we earned it.  it's ours.
it is.  we know that.  and it's enough that we know.  just think of the girls.  they're still young.  we never see them.  i lost my parents.  i don't want them to lose theirs; i don't want them to grow up without a mother and father ...
maybe i should get out of the game. what do you think, buddy?  go back to being a lawyer and end up with something solid, some money at the end of the line ... you know, i keep thinking of my old man tonight.  he was a failure, too.
you're not a failure, dick.
you know how much money he had in the bank when he died?  nothing.  he was so damned honest ...  but i miss him.  i miss him a hell of a lot.
what'd he say?
what do you think?  he said in life there's no free ride.
what'd you say?
i said i didn't need a free ride.  i need a suit.
oh, no, harold.  he doesn't respond well to humor.  maybe if you talk to mother she can ...
i'd rather get a whipping than have another talk with her.  anything but a talk with her.
richard ... come with me, would you ...
why me?
because harold tests thy father's will is no reason to admire him.  let harold's worldliness be a warning to thee, not an example.
yes, mother ...
harold may have lost touch with his bible, but thou must never lapse.
do not tell a lie, richard ... the cornsilk cigarette harold gave thee behind the store this morning.
i don't ... have them.  mother ... i swear, i ... didn't smoke.
i see ... well then, richard, we have nothing more to talk about, do we?
please, mother, it ... it was just one time, mother, i'm ... i'm sorry.
so am i.  thy father will have to know of thy lying.
no, no!  please, don't.  don't tell him.  i'll never do it again.  i promise.  i promise ...  please, mama ...
i expect more from thee, richard.
please!  i'll never let you down again, mother.  never.  i promise.
then this shall be our little secret.  remember that i see into thy soul as god sees.  thou may fool the world. even thy father.  but not me, richard. never me.
mother, think of me always as your faithful dog ...
we haven't said grace yet.  richard.
is it my turn?
thank you, fidel castro.
you're not going to blame this on castro, are you?
i sure am.  the goddamned missile crisis united the whole country behind kennedy.  and he was supporting brown. people were scared, that's why.
i suppose castro staged the whole thing just to beat you.
buddy, before you join the jubilation at my being beaten again, you should remember: people vote not out of love, but fear.  they don't teach that at sunday school or at the whittier community playhouse!
don't you want to listen to brown's victory speech?
no.  i'm not going to listen to any more speeches ever again.
amen to that.
it's over, dick.
i'll concede in the morning.
not that.  us.
what are you saying?  what are you talking about?
i want a divorce.
my god -- divorce?  what about the girls?
the girls will grow up.  they only know you from television anyway.
it would ruin us, buddy, our family.
you're ruining us.  if we stay with you, you'll take us down with you.  this isn't political, dick.  this is our life.
everything's political, for christ's sake!  i'm political.  and you're political, too!
no, i'm not!  i'm finished.
this is just what they want, buddy. don't you see it?  they want to drive us apart.  to beat us.  we can't let them do it.  we've been through too much together, buddy ... we belong together.
that's what you said the first time we met.  you didn't even know me.
dick, don't...
buddy, look at me ... just look at me. do you really want me to quit?
we can be happy.  we really can.  we love you, dick.  the girls and i...
if i stop ... there'll be no more talk of divorce?
i'll do it.  no more.
are you serious?
yeah ... i'm out.
is that the truth?
i'll never run again.  i promise.
where are they?
dick, you don't have to make a statement.  herb covered it for you.
no!
sorry, dick.  she's a little tipsy.
you mean smashed!  she called up at midnight last week.  talking a bunch of crap.  pat can't stand her.
it's a thing she does.  she talks at night.
talks all day, too!  how the hell can you put up with her, john?
what the hell -- i love her.  and she's great in bed.
howya doin'!  new york treating you okay?  i'm sorry i haven't been able to see you at all--
well enough.  you're looking "happy," nelson.
oh, happy!  dick nixon ... you remember him.
hi, happy.  well, you're obviously making him happy.
repartee, dick -- very good.  hey, i feel ten years younger!  it makes a helluva difference, let me tell ya! how's the lawyer life?
never made so much money in my life. but my upbringing doesn't allow me to enjoy it.  i did get to argue a case before the supreme court.
won or lost?
lost.
someday, dick.
but being out of the game gives me time to write.
to what?
write.  you know, a book.  i'm calling it "six crises."  it's a good thing, rocky -- take some time off to write.
hiya, fellow ... what were they?
what?
the "crises"?
"checkers" of course, hiss, ike's heart attack, venezuela, the kitchen debate, and kennedy.
sounds like you got a crisis syndrome. aren't you exaggerating a bit, dick? call it three-and-a-half, maybe four ...
let's wait and see how you survive your first crisis, rocky ...
whatcha mean by that?
you know: how the voters are gonna play your divorce.
well, in any case, rocky, i'll send you my book.  "six crises."
whatcha predicting -- your boy goldwater going to split the party?
some say you are, rocky.
the republican party was never home to extremists.  you should know better. this guy's as stupid as mccarthy, and mccarthy never did you any good in the long run, now did he?
hey, you know henry kissinger -- he's down from harvard.  on my staff, foreign policy whiz ...
no, but i liked your book on nuclear weapons.  we have similar views on the balance of power ...
well, that's wonderful.  so get me this "crisis" thing, dick; i'll be glad to take a look at it.
... as the old alliances crumble.
finally someone who's noticed!  i'm a great admirer of yours, too, mr. nixon.  you are an unusual politician. we share a mutual idol -- "six crises" sounds like a page from churchill.
churchill, degaulle, disraeli.  they all went through the pain of losing power.
but they all got it back again, didn't they?  we should have lunch sometime.
rocky's full of shit!  no way he's going to get nominated west of the hudson with a new wife.  he's gonna be drinking scotches in retirement at some goddamn country club with the rest of the republicans.
goes to show you all the moolah in the world can't buy you a brain.
well, he seems to have bought kissinger.
the jewboy's a harvard whore with the morals of an eel -- sells himself to the highest bidder.
you're the one who should be in politics, john.  you're tougher than i am.  you never crack.
that'll be the day.
let's get out of here; it's too painful.  i hate it.  we went bowling last weekend.  next weekend we're going to the zoo. whoever said there was life after politics was full of shit.
make some money, dick, prove yourself to the wall street crowd and let goldwater and rockefeller take the fall against kennedy.
thanks, jack.  you sure throw a helluva party.
party ain't started yet, dick.  got these gals coming over to the ranch later for a little private "thing," y'know ... there's some fellows i want you to meet.
well, uh, trini and i have an early plane.  we were hoping to get back to new york in time for ...
like you said jack, i'm just a new york lawyer now.
we'll see about that.
i know for a fact that the one with the big tits is a republican, and she'd do anything for the party.
she's quite pretty.
her name's sandy ...
by the way, jack, this looks like a pretty straight-forward transaction to me, but we should get into it soon -- just take a few minutes, maybe up at the house ...
he's all business, ain't he, trini?  dick, we could've had our own goddamn lawyers handle this deal.  we brought you down here 'cause we wanted to talk to you ...
hi.
hello ...
that's julie ... and that's tricia. she, uh, reminds me a little bit of you ...
oh yeah ... she really is ... wholesome.
... i don't really know you yet, sandy ... what do you like?  i mean, what kind of clothes do you like?  do you like blue ... red?
oh, i like satin, i like pink ...
what kind of, uh ... music do you like?
i like jazz ...
yeah ... guy lombardo ...
elvis i like, too.
oh yeah, he's good.
... but it depends on what i'm doing to the music, dick ...
uh, is your mother ... still alive?
yeah, she lives in dallas ...
she must be very attractive.  would she like an autograph?  she might remember me ... where's trini?
hell, kennedy's pissed cuba away to the russians.  and he don't know what the hell he's doing in vietnam.  these are dangerous times, dick, especially for business ...
agreed.
gentlemen, i tried.  i told kennedy to go into cuba.  he heard me and he made his decision.  i appreciate your sentiments.  i've heard them from many fine cuban patriots, but it's nothing i can do anything about.  now, it's a long drive back to dallas tonight, and trini and i have got an early flight tomorrow to new york ...
dick, these boys want you to run.  they're serious.  they can deliver the south and they can put texas in your column.  that would've done it in '60.
only if kennedy dumps johnson.
that sonofabitch kennedy is coming back down here tomorrow.  dick, we're willing to put up a shitpot fulla money to get rid of him -- more money'n you ever dreamed of.
nobody's gonna beat kennedy in '64 with all the money in the world.
yes, well ... gentlemen, i promised my wife.  i'm out of politics.
you just came down here for the weather, right, mr. nixon?
i came down here to close a deal for studebaker.
dick, you should call bobby.
he doesn't want me at the funeral.
you don't have to go.
de gaulle's gonna be there.  and macmillan.  and adenauer. nixon can't not be there.
then call him.  i'm sure it was an oversight.
no.  it's his way.  he hates me.  him and teddy.  they always hated me.
they've lost a brother.  you know what that means, dick.
we got the press this time!
and we got the "big mo"!  we're back!
were you planning to tell me?
we ... haven't announced anything ... uh ...
uh, wait ...
you need her, dick -- in '60 she was worth five, six million votes.
don't worry -- i'll use the old nixon charm on her.
buddy? ...
you should be going ... the primaries are soon, aren't they?  new hampshire ...
they love you, buddy.  they need you, too.
i don't want them to love me.
i need you out there.  it won't be like last time.  the war's crippled the democrats.  i can win ... we deserve it.  yeah, it's ours, buddy -- at last.  nobody knows better than you.  frank nixon's boy.
it was our dream, too, buddy, together ... always.
do you really want this, dick?
this.  above all.
and then you'll be happy?
yes ... you know it!  yes ... i will. yeah!
then i'll be there for you.
you're the strongest woman i ever met. i love you, buddy.
can i just ask for one thing?
anything.
will you ... would you kiss me?
cue the crowd.  go to the woman's group.  get the bald guy, he's great ...
i, unlike senator kennedy, have a plan to end the war.  but not for peace at any price, but peace with honor!
what do you think this plan is, edgar? a nuclear attack?
he's lying, clyde.  always has. that's why nixon's always been useful. hold still.  and take your hand off your hip.
... give me a break, mary.
you all know me.  i'm one of you, i grew up a stone's throw from here on a little lemon ranch in yorba linda ...
it was the poorest lemon ranch in california, i can tell you that.  my father sold it before they found oil on it.
it was the poorest lemon ranch in california, i can assure you.  my father sold it before they found oil on it.
but it was all we had.
... but it was all we had.
my father built the house where i was born with his own hands.  oh, it wasn't a big house ...
turn this crap off, clyde.  it's giving me a headache ... you may go, joaquin.
i want to see him tomorrow, clyde.
edgar, think twice.  he works in the kitchen.
not joaquin, you idiot.  nixon.  did you hear what he said in oregon? about me having too much power.
it's between nixon and a kennedy again, edgar ... who do you want?
kennedy -- never.  he'll fry in hell for what he did to me.  but nixon doesn't know that, which is why i'm gonna have to remind him he needs us a helluva lot more'n we need him.
edgar, wonderful to see you.  clyde ... hi.
mr. nixon.
thank you for coming, dick.
winning?
actually, i've just had a bit of luck.
oh, my goodness ...
how about you?  are you going to win?
you should ask bobby.
... little bobby.
would you walk with me down to the paddock?  i'd like to look at the horses for the eighth.
can't we just talk here?  i've got the police chiefs in san diego.
i'm trying to spare you an embarrassment.  johnny roselli is on his way back here.
roselli?  johnny roselli?
yes.  your old friend from cuba.
i never met the man.
i know you've been very careful not to.  that's why i'm concerned.
you'll win the nomination.
it could be '60 all over again, edgar. bobby's got the magic, like a goddamn rock star.  they climb all over each other just to touch his clothes! he'll ride his brother's corpse right into the white house.
ummm...
if things remain as they are ... he's got the anti-war vote.
or he'll steal it like his brother. he's a mean little sonofabitch, edgar ... he had the irs audit my mother when she was dying in a nursing home.
i know ...
... somebody should shoot the little bastard.
i wanna fight just as dirty as he does.
... use his women.
... any information you have, edgar. the sonofabitch is not gonna steal from me again!  can you back me up on this?  can i count on your support?
yeah, well, as i said, edgar ...
you asked if you could count on my support ... as long as i can count on yours.
the old queen did it on purpose.
he wasn't protecting me.  he was putting me on notice.
what?  that he knew johnny roselli? hoover knew a lot of gangsters.
yeah, but roselli wasn't just any gangster.  he was the gangster who set up track 2 in cuba.
i don't understand.  track 2's chile?
chile, congo, guatemala, cuba. wherever's there's a need for an executive action capability, there's a track 2.  in cuba, track 1 was the bay of pigs invasion.  track 2 ... it was our idea.  we felt the invasion wouldn't work unless we got rid of castro.  so we asked ourselves -- who else wants castro dead?  the mafia, the money people.   so we put together track 2 ...
the first assassination attempt was in '60, just before the election.
before?!  eisenhower approved that?
he didn't veto it.  i ran the white house side.  the mob contact was johnny roselli.  one of the cia guys was that jackass, howard hunt.
jesus!
and not just hunt.  frank sturgis, all those cubans.  all of them in the watergate.  they were involved in track 2 in cuba.  hunt reported to my military aide. but i met with him several times as vice president.  that's what worries the shit out of me.  i don't know how much hunt knows.  or the cubans.
so?  you wanted castro dead. everybody wanted castro dead.  if hunt and the others are cia, why don't we just throw this back in the cia's lap? let richard helms take the fall?
because ... because dick helms knows too much ... if anyone in this country knows more than i do, it's hoover and helms!  you don't fuck with dick helms!  period.
alright.  but why, if kennedy is so clean in all this, didn't he cancel track 2?
because he didn't even know about it. the cia never told him, they just kept it going.  it was like ... it had a life of its own.  like ... a kind of "beast" that doesn't even know it exists.  it just eats people when it doesn't need 'em anymore.  two days after the bay of pigs, kennedy called me in.  he reamed my ass ...
... he'd just found out about track 2.
you never told him?
i didn't want him to get the credit. he said i'd stabbed him in the back. called me a two-bit grocery clerk from whittier.
if they didn't tell kennedy about track 2, how did hoover find out?
they had us bugged.  christ, he had everybody bugged.  yeah, he was gonna support me in '68, but he was also threatening me.  that was hoover: he'd give you the carrot, but he'd make damn sure the stick went right up your ass.
hey ... you'll be able to do it now.
what ... ?
go to law school.  mom and dad'll be able to afford it now ...
mom expects great things from you ...
harold ... can i get you anything?
relax, dick, it's just me ... the desert's so beautiful, isn't it?  i want to go home, dick.  time to go home.
you're not gonna quit on me, are you, harold?
i can't ...
thou must.
it's a gift, richard.  this law school is a gift from your brother.
did he have to die for me to get it?!
it's meant to make us stronger.  thou art stronger than harold ... stronger than arthur.  god has chosen thee to survive ...
what about happiness, mother?
thou must find thy peace at the center, richard.  strength in this life.  happiness in the next.
well, as you know, most of my staff have weighed in against this "incursion."  they believe it will fail to achieve anything fundamental militarily, and will result in crushing criticism domestically ...
i didn't ask what your staff thinks, henry.  what do you think?
what i think is ... they're cowards. their opposition represents the cowardice of the eastern establishment.  they don't realize as you do, mr. president, that the communists only respect strength, and they will only negotiate in good faith if they fear the "madman," richard nixon.
exactly!  we've got to take the war to them.  hit 'em where it hurts -- right in the nuts.  more assassinations, more killings.  right, al?
that's what they're doing.
these state department jerks, bill, don't understand; you got to electrify people with bold moves.  bold moves make history, like teddy roosevelt -- "t.r." -- rushing up san juan hill.  small event but dramatic.  people took notice.
how many?
four.  two boys.  two girls.  and eight wounded.
jesus christ!
one of the fathers was on the tv saying, "my child was not a bum."  and it's playing like gangbusters.  hell, hoover told me one of the girls was a nymph.
shit, the press doesn't care about the facts.  cronkite's sticking it to me. it's their first big hit on richard nixon.
oh, i suppose you would've just let them take over.  these aren't fraternity pranks, john.  it's anarchy.  a revolution!
i don't know if i'd go that far, sir.
why not?
is the war worth it?  is it worth a one-term presidency?  because i think right now that's what we're looking at.
i will not go down as the first american president to lose a war! going into cambodia, bombing hanoi, bombing laos -- it buys us time so we can get out and give the south vietnamese a fighting chance.
exactly, sir.  that is your historical contribution: to lead boldly in an era of limits.
no one understands! -- even my own men.  what do you think the communists respond to?  honesty, liberal guilt, soul-wringing crap, fathers on tv crying?  hell no!  i understand the communist mind, i've studied it for thirty years.  they grasp "realpolitik" better than any of us, right, henry?
we gotta make 'em think we're just as tough as they are -- that nixon's a mad bomber, he might do anything!  i played a lot of poker in world war ii , and i won big, and let me tell you this -- unpredictability is our best asset.  that redneck johnson left me with a shitty hand and i'm bluffing.  i've got to play the hawk in vietnam and the dove in china. and if we keep our heads, we can win this thing.
what?  win vietnam, sir?
that's triangular diplomacy, gentlemen.
exactly, yes, mr. president.  that is my contention.
that's what geopolitics is about -- the whole world linked by self interest ... you tell me, ron, how the hell i can explain that on television to a bunch of simple-minded reporters and weeping fucking mothers!
but what am i telling the press about kent state?
tell 'em what you like; they'll never understand it anyway.
excuse me ... are you talking about recognizing china, mr. president? that would cost us our strongest support.
no ... i can do this because i've spent my whole career building anti communist credentials.
this will get me a second term.  damn it, without risk, there's no heroism. there's no history.  i, nixon, was born to do this.
mr. president, this cannot be breathed!  especially to our secretary of state -- that cretin rogers ... the chinese would never trust us again. the only way, i emphasize only way, to pull this off is in secret.
this is a major coup, gentlemen -- our own state department doesn't even know.  and if it leaks out of here tonight ...
well, one way or the other, kent state is not good.  we have to get out in front of this thing.  the pr is going to murder us.
money.  follow the money.
sir?
these kids are being manipulated by the communists.  like chambers and hiss.
this isn't '48, dick.  they'll never buy it.
how do you know that, john?  did we try?  are we just giving up like the rest of 'em?  what's hoover found, for god's sake?
we can't touch hoover --
i thought the gloves were off.
-- as long as he's got secret files on everybody.  i don't want 'em used against us.  what about the cia?  helms's done nothing for us.  i want to see him.
the soldiers were provoked.  the students started it, for christ's sake!
sir, there's dead american kids here. let's say we don't apologize for kent state, but maybe we could have a national prayer day ...
... never complain, never explain, john ...
i tell you, the soldiers were provoked.  now stop this pussyfooting around.  dead kids!  how the hell did we ever give the democrats a weapon like this?  i mean, if cambodia doesn't work, we'll bomb hanoi if we have to.
that's right!  and if necessary, i'll drop the big one.
we have to entertain the possibility ...
you all right?
my brother harold was about the same age as those kids, john.  tuberculosis got him.
it wasn't your fault.  the soldiers were just kids, too.  they panicked.
they were throwing rocks, john, just rocks.  they don't think i feel ... but i feel too much sometimes.  i just can't let a whole policy get dominated by our sentimentality.
you're doing the right thing, dick ... don't let 'em shake you.
it broke my heart when harold died.
that was a long time ago.
get off that.  that leads nowhere. you should offer condolences to the families of those kids.
sure, i'd like to offer condolences.
... and we've got the economic guys at five.  the dow lost another 16 points. they're going to want a decision on the budget.  sir?  ... are we holding the line on a balanced budget?
no ... a little deficit won't hurt. jesus, they're serious.  why're we stopping?
run 'em over.
get that little fucker!  great tackle! reminds me of my days at whittier. most of these kids are useless.
probably flunking, nothing to do except come down here and meet girls. henry's out there with them.
there's a poison in the upper classes, bob.  they've had it too soft.  too many cars, too many color tvs ...
don't forget the south, sir, the west. filled with the good football colleges, straight kids.  there's more of 'em with you than against you.  not like these mudmutts.
it's the parents' fault really.
let's not forget they're just kids, they don't vote.
it's the fall of the roman empire, are you blind?  and we're putting fig leaves on the statues ...
but, hell, this is nothing compared to venezuela.  when i was vice president, ike sent me down there like a blocking back.  they threw rocks, broke out our windows, almost overturned the car. read six crises, bob.  boy, pat was brave!
yeah, we've got to get our vice president off the golf course and back there on the college circuit.  that's top priority.
he's in the dumps, sir.  agnew.  every time you have him attack the press, they give it back to him in spades. he's become the most hated man in america.
yeah, good old spiro.  well, better him than me.  what the hell is he but an insurance policy?
he's begging for a meeting, chief.  he wants to go overseas for awhile.
well, no place where they speak english.  that way he can always say he was misquoted.
mr. president, i don't know what to say.  as soon as we learned from the secret service you were en route, the director was notified.  he should be here any minute.
where the hell is he?
uh, he's rushing back from his tennis game, sir ...
so ... let's go ...
he told me to take you to his conference room.
no.  his office.  i want a very private conversation.  i don't want to be bugged.
then his office will be fine.
how's the job coming, bob?
frankly, sir, it stinks.  i have no access.  i'm lucky helms lets me have a staff.
we'll see about that ...
he's nervous, sir.  he's heard you're looking for a new director.
well, he certainly isn't acting like it.
that's helms.  he's "sang froid," a world-class poker player.
yeah?  well, i own the fucking casino.
i'm honored, dick, that you've come all this way out here to virginia to visit us at last.
my friends call me "mister president."
and so shall i.  arrange some coffee, would you general cushman?
robert cushman is a lieutenant general in the marine corps, the deputy director of the cia ... and this is what you use him for?
i didn't choose him as my deputy, mr. president.  you did.
i suppose, "mister president," you're unhappy that we have not implemented your domestic intelligence plan, but ...
you're correct.  i'm concerned these students are being funded by foreign interests, whether they know it or not.  the fbi is worthless in this area.  i want your full concentration on this matter ...
of course we've tried, but so far we've come up with nothing that ...
then find something.  and i want these leaks stopped.  jack fucking anderson, the new york times, the state department -- i want to know who's talking to them.
i'm sure you realize this is a very tricky area, mr. president, given our charter and the congressional oversight committees ...
screw congressional oversight.  i know damn well, going back to the '50's, this agency reports what it wants, and buries what it doesn't want congress to know.  pay close attention to this.
is there something else that's bothering you, mr. president?
yes ... it involves some old and forgotten papers.  things i signed as vice president.  i want the originals in my office and i don't want copies anywhere else.
you're referring, of course, to chairing the special operations group as vice president.
yes ...
diem?  trujillo?  lumumba?  guatemala? cuba? ... it's a shame you didn't take similar precautions, dick.
i'm interested in the documents that put your people together with ... the others.  all of them ...
president kennedy threatened to smash the cia into a thousand pieces.  you could do the same ...
i'm not jack kennedy.  your agency is secure.
not if i give you all the cards ...
i promised the american people peace with honor in southeast asia.  that could take time -- two, maybe three years ... in the meantime, your agency will continue at current levels of funding.
current levels may not be sufficient.
the president would support a reasonable request for an increase.
and me? ...
firing you, mr. helms, wouldn't do any good.  of course you'll continue as dci.  you're doing a magnificent job.
and of course i accept.  i'm flattered.  and i want you to know, i work for only one president at a time.
yes.  and you will give general cushman full access.
it will take a little time, but i'll order a search for your papers. though it does raise a disturbing issue.
what?
mr. castro.
yes.
we have recent intelligence that a soviet nuclear submarine has docked at cienfuegos.
well, we'll lodge a formal protest.
i don't think we can treat this as a formality.  mr. kennedy made a verbal promise to the russians not to invade cuba.  but you authorized dr. kissinger to put this in writing.
are you tapping kissinger?
my job, unpleasant sometimes, is to know what others don't want me to know.
not if you have spies in the white house, it isn't your job.
it is not my practice to spy on the president.  doctor kissinger manages to convey his innermost secrets to the world at large on his own.
mr. helms, we've lived with communism in cuba for ten years ...
... but it has never been the policy of this government to accept that. and it is certainly not cia policy.
cia policy?  the cia has no policy, mr. helms.  except what i dictate to you ...  i try to adjust to the world as it is today, not as you or i wanted it to be ten years ago.
is that why you and kissinger are negotiating with the chinese?
this is an extremely dangerous direction, mr. president.  terrible consequences can result from such enormous errors in judgement.
but ... if we were able to separate china from russia once and for all, we can -- we could create a balance of power that would secure the peace into the next century.
by offering cuba to the russians as a consolation prize?
cuba would be a small price to pay.
so president kennedy thought.
i never thought jack was ready for the presidency.  but i would never, never consider ...  his death was awful, an awful thing for this country.  do you ever think of death, mr. helms?
flowers are continual reminders of our mortality.  do you appreciate flowers?
no.  they make me sick.  they smell like death ... i had two brothers die young.  but let me tell you, there are worse things than death.  there is such a thing as evil.
you must be familiar with my favorite poem by yeats?  "the second coming"?
no.
black irishman.  very moving. "turning and turning in the widening gyre / the falcon cannot hear the falconer / things fall apart, the center cannot hold / mere anarchy is loosed upon the world / and everywhere the ceremony of innocence is drowned / the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity" ... but it ends so beautifully ominous -- "what rough beast, its hours come round at last / slouches toward bethlehem to be born?" ... yes, this country stands at such a juncture.
he looked old, didn't he?
i asked him, "lyndon, what would you do, on a scale of one to ten?"  and he said, "bomb the shit out of hanoi, boy!  bomb them where they live." ... john, do you think i was too soft on tv?
hi, buddy.  what are you doing in here?
i've missed you.
are you okay?
why don't we go down to key biscayne together?  just the two of us.
because ... i have to relax.
i was thinking tonight -- do you remember, dick?  do you remember when you used to drive me on dates with the other boys?  you didn't want to let me out of your sight.
yeah, sure, a long time ago.
yes, it's been a long time ...
i don't need that, buddy.  i'm not jack kennedy.
no, you're not.  so stop comparing yourself to him.  you have no reason to ... you have everything you ever wanted. you've earned it.  why can't you just enjoy it?
i do.  i do.  in my own way.
then what are you scared of, honey?
i'm not scared, buddy.  you don't understand.  they're playing for keeps, buddy.  the press, the kids, the liberals -- they're out there, trying to figure out how to tear me down.
they're all your enemies?
yes!
you personally?
yes!  this is about me.  why can't you understand that, you of all people? it's not the war -- it's nixon!  they want to destroy nixon!  and if i expose myself even the slightest bit they'll tear my insides out.  do you want that?  do you want to see that, buddy?  it's not pretty.
sometimes i think that's what you want.
you've been drinking.  what the hell are you saying?  jesus, you sound like them now! ...  i've gotta keep fighting, buddy, for the country.  these people running things, the elite ... they're soft, chickenshit faggots!  they don't have the long-term vision anymore.  they just want to cover their asses or meet girls or tear each other down.  oh, god, this country's in deep trouble, buddy ... and i have to see this through.  mother would've wanted no less of me ... i'm sorry, buddy.
no, i don't.  i'm not jack ...
but they never will, dick.  no matter how many elections you win, they never will.
i was asleep, mr. president.  what can i get you?
just ... uh ... you know.
of course.
do you miss cuba, manolo?
yes, mr. president.
we let you down, didn't we.  your people.
that was mr. kennedy.
you don't think he was a hero?
he was a politician.
did you cry when he died?
yes.
why?
i don't know.  he made me see the stars ...
how did he do that?  all those kids ... why do they hate me so much?
hi, i'm dick nixon.
you're shittin' me.
where you from?
syracuse.
the orangemen!  now there's a football program.  jim brown.  and that other tailback ... the one with the blood disease ...
ernie davis.
right, right.  i used to play a little ball myself at whittier.  of course, they used me as a tackling dummy.
we didn't come here to talk about football.  we came here to end the war.
yes, i understand that.
what you have to understand, mr. nixon, is that we are willing to die for what we believe in.
that man up there lived in similar times.  he had chaos and civil war and hatred between the races ... sometimes i go to the lincoln room at the white house and just pray.  you know, the liberals act like idealism belongs to them, but it's not true.  my family went republican because lincoln freed the slaves.  my grandmother was an abolitionist.  it was quakers who founded whittier, my hometown, to abolish slavery.  they were conservative bible folk, but they had a powerful sense of right and wrong ... forty years ago i was looking, as you are now, for answers.  but you know, ending the war and cleaning up the air and the cities, feeding the poor -- my mother used to feed hobos stopping over at our house - none of it is going to satisfy the spiritual hunger we all have, finding a meaning to this life ...
mr. president!
it's okay, bob, we're just rapping, my friends and i.  we actually agree on a lot of things ...
no, we don't!  you're full of shit! you say you want to end the war, so why don't you?  my brother died over there last november.  why?  what good was his death?
i know.  i know.  i've seen a lot of kids die, too, in world war ii.
come on, man -- vietnam ain't germany. it doesn't threaten us.  it's a civil war between the vietnamese.
but change always comes slowly.  i've withdrawn more than half the troops. i'm trying to cut the military budget for the first time in thirty years.  i want an all-volunteer army.  but it's also a question of american credibility, our position in the world ...
someone wants it ...  you can't stop it, can you?  even if you wanted to.  because it's not you. it's the system.  and the system won't let you stop it ...
there's a lot more at stake here than what you want.  or even what i want ...
then what's the point?  what's the point of being president?  you're powerless.
no, no.  i'm not powerless.  because ... because i understand the system. i believe i can control it.  maybe not control it totally.  but ... tame it enough to make it do some good.
it sounds like you're talking about a wild animal.
maybe i am.
we really must go, mr. president.
don't forget, the most important thing in your life is your relationship with your maker ...  don't forget to be on god's side.
she got it, bob.  a nineteen-year-old college kid ...
what?
she understood something it's taken me twenty-five fucking years in politics to understand.  the cia, the mafia, the wall street bastards ...
sir?
... "the beast."  a nineteen-year-old kid.  she understands the nature of "the beast."  she called it a wild animal.
there must be a quarter-million out there, edgar.  they've been at it now for a year.  young kids just like tricia.  i don't know.  do you think they have a point, edgar?  maybe this whole damned system of government is ...
remember what lenin said in 1917, mr. president: "the power was lying in the streets just waiting for someone to pick it up."  the communists have never been closer.  now is the time to go back to the old themes, the ones that made you president.  let the communists know you're onto them.
the little bastards think they can ruin tricia's wedding day by dancing naked in the reflecting pond.
don't listen to 'em, don't quit. remember - kennedy, bobby, and king were against the war.  where are they now?  don't give 'em a goddamn inch on the war.  president johnson bombed laos for years and nobody knew or said a thing.  how the hell the times ever got ahold of this ellsberg stuff is a disgrace!
we can't keep a goddamn secret in this government, edgar.  they're stealing papers right out of his office.
johnson had the same damned problem till he bugged his own office.
we took his system out.
that was a mistake.  the white house was full of kennedy people then.  it still is.
who do you think is behind it?
well, you have cia people all over the place.  helms has seen to that.  then there's kissinger's staff. kissinger himself, i believe, maybe the leaker.
kissinger?
he's obsessed with his own image.  he wants his nobel peace prize a little too much.  as the late "doctor" king proved -- even an ape can win a prize with good press.
jesus, i'd like to book him into a psychiatrist's office.  he comes in here ranting and raving, dumping his crap all over the place ... could you prove it, edgar?
i always get my man.
yeah, you do.  i'd be bugging myself, edgar ... who'd get the tapes?
no one.  your property.  it would prove your case.  why do you think kissinger's taping your calls?  for history.  his word against yours -- and right now he's got the records.
this damned tie ... will you help me, edgar?  churchill used to say to me, "if you want your own history written properly, you must write it yourself."  all right, edgar, but just don't let it come back to haunt me.
it won't.  as long as i'm here.
how the fuck did you know?
injections.  even this noble sport's been fixed.  seen the guys?
they're around.
why, you got a customer?
the white house.
you're fucking me.
we're gonna be plumbers, frank.  we're gonna plug a leak.
who we working for?
a guy named gordon liddy.  thinks he's martin borman.  you wanna meet him?
where'd you find him?
just don't tell him to do anything you don't really want him to do.
so, does tricky dick know about this?
i won't tell him if you won't.
i must say you look very good, mr. chairman.
looks can be deceiving ...
we know you've taken a great risk in inviting us here.
don't ever trust them.  they never tell the truth or honor their commitments.  vietnamese are like russians.  both are dogs.
mr. chairman, there is an old saying: the enemy of my enemy is my friend.
that has the added virtue of being true.
you know, mr. chairman, at harvard i used your writings in my class.
what a waste of time.  my writings mean absolutely nothing.
but your writings have changed the world, mr. chairman.
fung pi!   i've only managed to change a few things around the city of beijing.  i want to know your secret.
secret, mr. chairman?
how a fat man gets so many girls.
you know, i voted for you in your last election.
i was the lesser of two evils.
you're too modest, nixon.  you're as evil as i am.  we're both from poor families.  but others pay to feed the hunger in us.  in my case, millions of reactionaries.  in your case, millions of vietnamese.
civil war is always the cruelest kind of war.
the real war is in us.  history is a symptom of our disease.
penny for your thoughts.
is that adjusted for inflation?  think of the life mao's led.  in '52 i called him a monster.  now he could be our most important ally.  only nixon could've done that.
you're a long way from whittier.
congratulations, dick.
how am i going to break this to bob hope?
not for the pentagon it isn't.  i'm kissing mao's ass.  and the press is gonna find some way to shaft nixon on this one.
it's not the press that matters. nixon's wife is proud of him.
and his staff.  come on, the copy they were filing from china was great.
wait till the mai-tais wear off.
the country's loving it.
the hard-core four million "nixon nuts" aren't gonna go for it ... they'll say i sold out to the communists.
you'll pick up the middle on this one - the jews and negros.
jews and negros don't win elections, henry.  better to hang them around the democrats' necks.
the jews aren't the middle, henry. they're the far left.
you're talking too much about black africa, henry.  it's killing us with the rednecks.
the blacks are lost, the "schwartzes" are gone ...
don't let it lose us the right-wing vote ...
mr. president, the press guys asked if you could come back for a minute.
the hell with 'em.
no, they want you, mr. president.  i really think it would be a good move.
gentlemen, i go now to discover the exact length, width and depth of the shaft.
so, what's this about, dick?
it's me or wallace, jack.  wallace's third party is only going to help mcgovern.  i need your support.
well, you sure been chock full of surprises so far, "mister president."
it looks like to me we're gonna lose the war for the first goddamned time and, dick, goddamn it, you're going along with it, buying into this kissinger bullshit -- "detente" with the communists.  "detente" -- it sounds like two fags dancing.
jack, we're not living in the same country you and i knew in '46.  our people are just not gonna sacrifice in major numbers for war.  we can't even get 'em to accept cuts in their gas tanks.  hell, the arabs and the japanese are bleeding the shit out of our gold ..
and whose fault is that?  if we'd won in vietnam ...
it's nobody's fault, jack.  it's change -- which is a fact of history. even that old cocksucker hoover's dead.  things change.
so ... how's the food over there in china, mr. nixon?
free, if you're the president.
what are you going to do about this allende fellow nationalizing our businesses in chile?  you gonna send kissinger down there?
we're gonna get rid of him -- allende, i mean -- just as fast as we can. he's on the top of the list.
how about kissinger along with him?
kissinger's misunderstood.  he pretends to be a liberal for his establishment friends, but he's even tougher than i am ...
desi's got a point.  what the hell are we gonna do about the communists right here in our backyard?!
what do you mean, jack?
i mean i got federal price controls on my oil.  the ragheads are beating the shit out of me.  and i got your epa environment agency with its thumb so far up my ass it's scratching my ear.
gentlemen, i think it's about time for us to be getting to the airport.
let him finish, bob.
... and now i have a federal judge ordering me to bus my kids halfway 'cross town to go to school with some nigger kids. i think, mr. president, you're forgetting who put you where you are.
the american people put me where i am.
because if you're uncomfortable with the epa up your ass, try the irs ...
well, goddamn.  are you threatening me, dick?
presidents don't threaten.  they don't have to.  good day, gentlemen.
you know, they all miss the point. probably our biggest achievement as an administration, when it's all said and done, isn't china or russia.  it's pulling out of vietnam without a right wing revolt.
i believe you're right, boss.
... but even the presidency isn't enough anymore ...
sir?
the presidency won't protect us, bob. we're beyond politics now ...
congratulations, boss.  a great victory!  the madman theory wasn't so crazy after all.
this could be it ... this could be it. four long years ...
yeah ... sullivan thinks henry's leaking.  he's the one ...
yeah, i knew it.  i knew it from '69 on, and i said it all along, didn't i ...
no, you didn't, bob.
looks like he talked to joe kraft ... and to the times.  told them he was dead set against the bombing, that you were ... "unstable."  claims he has to handle you "with kid gloves" ...
so that explains his press notices. working both sides of the fence: jewboy henry, always trying to get his nobel prize, get laid ...
my god, my god!  he talked to the new york times?
we ought to fire his whining ass. right now when he's on top.  you know what -- it'll set the right example for the rest of this administration.
i would personally enjoy doing that, sir.
no, no.  he's our only "star" right now.  he'd go crying straight to the press.  he'd crucify us -- the sonofabitch!  get someone from our staff on his ass. tap his phones.  i want to know everyone he talks to.
so, what about those watergate clowns, john?  this fuck sirica's crazy. thirty-five-year sentences!  there were no weapons.  right?  no injuries. there was no success!  it's just ridiculous.
sirica's just trying to force one of them to testify.  but they're solid.
then what about this washington post crap?  woodwind and fernstein?
bernstein.
who the fuck are they?  bob, are you working on revoking the posts's television license?  good.
i end the longest war in american history and they keep harping on this chickenshit!  you know who's behind this, don't you -- it's teddy kennedy! he drowns a broad in his car and he can't run for president.
he got pretty burned at chappaquiddick.
my point exactly!  somebody had to die before his shit got in the paper! fucking kennedys get away with everything.  do you see me screwing everything that moves?  for christ's sake!  i did what the new york times editorial page said we should do!  i ended the war, i got salt i with the russians, i opened china!  so why are these cocksuckers turning on me?  because they don't like the way i look.  where i went to school.
because they're not americans.
right.  they don't trust!  they don't trust america!
why would they?!  who the hell's sulzberger anyway?  their parents are gold traders from eastern europe. they buy things.  they come to jew york city and they buy up things.  one of the things they buy is the new york times.  and you know what?  be proud because they'll never trust you, sir, because we speak for the average american.
you know why they're turning on me? they're not serious about power, that's why.  they're playing with power.  they're forgetting the national interest.  in the old days, people knew how to hold power, how to set limits.  they wouldn't have torn this country apart over a third-rate burglary. all they care about now are their egos, looking good at cocktail parties ...
... beating out the other papers, chasing girls ...
... worrying whether someone said something "nice" about them.  all short-term, frivolous bullshit; ben bradlee worrying about teddy kennedy liking him ...
housecleaning?  it would be ugly, henry, really ugly ...
but it must be done; your government is paralyzed.
all kinds of shit would come out. like the ellsberg thing.  you knew about that, henry, didn't you?
i ... i heard something ... it sounded idiotic.
idiotic?  yes, i suppose it was.
that doesn't matter now, henry.  the point is, you might lose some of your media-darling halo if the press starts sniffing around our dirty laundry.
i had nothing to do with that, sir, and i resent any implication ...
resent it all you want, henry, but you're in it with the rest of us. cambodia, ellsberg, the wiretaps you put in.  the president wants you to know you can't just click your heels and head back to harvard yard.  it's your ass too, henry, and it's in the wind twisting with everyone else's.
mr. nixon, it is possible for even a president to go too far.
yeah ...
you played it perfectly, sir -- cocksucker!  he's going to think twice before he leaks again.
he'll be looking in his toilet bowl every time he pulls the chain.
mr. president, hunt wants more money. another hundred-and-thirty thousand.
son of a bitch.
he says if he doesn't get it right away, he's going to blow us out of the water.  and he means it.  ever since his wife died in the plane crash, he's been over the edge.
pay him.  pay him what he wants.
we've got to turn the faucet off on this thing.  it's out of control ...  you might burden just me with this in the future.
it's helms -- it's got to be.
we could leverage helms.
how?
when i met with him, he said ...
... i was wondering what's such dynamite in this bay of pigs story?  ... although it was clearly effective, because all of a sudden it was no problem for helms to go to the fbi and try to put a lid on watergate.
what about the documents he promised?
he'll give us the documents.  but i think he should be offered the ambassadorship to iran.  then he'll go without a whimper.
i promised iran to townsend.
put townsend in belgium; it's available.
townsend gave us 300 grand.  belgium's not worth more than 100, 150 ...
what about england?
forget it.  ehrenberg's paid three times that much ...
helms wants iran or there might be problems.  all of his old cia buddies are over there making a fortune off the shah.
for god's sake, when does this end?!
executive clemency ...
what?
hunt has nothing to lose now.  pardon all of them.  nobody's going to investigate a crime for which the criminals have already been pardoned.
i like that.  that's a solution.
it'll never wash.  pardoning them means we're guilty.  the people, the press will go nuts.
and what am i supposed to do?  just sit here and watch them coming closer? eating their way to the center?  lyndon bugged!  so did kennedy!  fdr cut a deal with lucky luciano. christ, even ike had a mistress! what's so special about me?  what about lyndon?  he could make a couple of calls to the hill and shut this whole thing down.  did anyone talk to him?
i don't know, i don't know ... i just know we've made too many enemies.
sir, bob and i are gonna have to testify before earvin's committee.
no, you're not!  you're going to claim executive privilege and you're going to stonewall it all the way -- plead the fifth amendment.  i don't give a shit.  they can't force the president's people to testify.
executive privilege will make it look like we're covering up.
we are covering up!  for some petty, stupid shit.  there are things i can say -- when other people say them, they'd be lies. but when i say them nobody believes me anyway ...
mitchell?  mitchell's ... family.
either it goes to mitchell or it comes here.
who's gonna tell mitchell?
you do it.
why me?
'cause he hates you.  it's worse when you get it from someone you trust.
he's wrong, you know -- about kennedy, lbj, truman.
how so?
sure, they did stuff, but nothing like this, bob.  forget watergate, the break-ins, the enemies list.  you got an attempted firebombing at the brookings institution, planting mcgovern stuff on the guy that shot wallace, trying to slip lsd to jack anderson.
the "old man" plays politics harder than anybody else.
you think this is just about politics?
it's a code or something.
i figured that out.
i think he means the kennedy assassination.
yeah?
they went after castro.  in some crazy way it got turned on kennedy.  i don't think the "p" knows what happened, but he's afraid to find out.  it's got him shitting peach pits.
christ, we created frankenstein with those fucking cubans.
eight words back in '72 -- "i covered up.  i was wrong.  i'm sorry" -- and the american public would've forgiven him.  but we never opened our mouths, john.  we failed him.
dick nixon saying "i'm sorry"? that'll be the day.  the whole suit of armor'd fall off.
so you tell mitchell ...
i was sorry to hear about your wife.
yes ... i got the money.
the president would like to know if that was the last payment.
i'll bet he would.
is it?
in richard nixon's long history of underhanded dealings, he has never gotten better value for his money.  if i were to open my mouth, all the dominoes would fall.
how the hell do you have the temerity to blackmail the president of the united states?
that's not the question, john.  the question is: why is he paying?
to protect his people.
i'm one of his people.  the cubans are his people.  and we're going to jail for him.
howard, you'll serve no more than two years, then he'll pardon you.
john, sooner or later -- sooner, i think -- you are going to learn the lesson that has been learned by everyone who has ever gotten close to richard nixon.  that he's the darkness reaching out for the darkness.  and eventually, it's either you or him. look at the landscape of his life and you'll see a boneyard.
how much do you need?
uh, i would say these people are going to cost a million dollars over the next two years ...
we could get that.
uh huh ...
we could get a million dollars.  we could get it in cash.  i know where it could be gotten.
i'm still not confident we can ride through this.  some people are going to have to go to jail.  hunt's not the only problem.  haldeman let me use the $350,000 cash fund in his safe to make the payments.  ehrlichman had a role, a big role, in the ellsberg break-in. and i'm ... uh, i think it's time we begin to think in terms of cutting our losses.
you say, john, cut our losses and all the rest.  but suppose the thing blows and they indict bob and the others. jesus, you'd never recover from that, john.  it's better to fight it out instead, and not let people testify ...
sir, i still don't think, uh, we can contain it anymore.  there's a cancer on the presidency.  and it's growing. with every day that ...
jesus, everything is a crisis among the upper intellectual types, the softheads.  the average people don't think it's much of a crisis.  for christ's sake, it's not vietnam ... no one's dying here.  isn't it ridiculous?
i agree it's ridiculous but --
i mean, who the hell cares about this penny-ante shit.  goldwater put it right.  he said: "well for christ's sake, everybody bugs everybody else; we know that." ... it's the cover-up, not the deed that's really bad here.  if only mitchell could step up and take the brunt of it; give them the hors d'oeuvre and maybe they won't come back for the main course.  that's the tragedy of all this.  mitchell's going to get it in the neck anyway. it's time he assumed some responsibility.
he's right.  maybe it's time to go to the hang-out route, john.  a full and thorough investigation ... we've cooperated with the fbi, we'll cooperate with the senate.  what do we have to hide?
no, we have nothing to hide.
we have nothing to hide.  but the only flaw in the plan is that they're not going to believe the truth.  that is the incredible thing!
you want me to put it all in writing? over my signature?
nobody knows more about this thing than you do, john.
i'm not going to be the scapegoat for this.  haldeman and ehrlichman are in just as deep as me.
john, you don't want to start down that road.  i remember what whittaker chambers told me back in '48 -- and he was a man who suffered greatly -- he said, "on the road of the informer, it's always night."  this is beyond you or even me.  it's the country, john.  it's the presidency.
i understand that, sir.
good.  you know how i feel about loyalty.  i'm not going to let any of my people go to jail.  that i promise you.  the important thing is to keep this away from haldeman and ehrlichman. i'm trusting you to do that, john.  i have complete confidence in you.
more light, chief?
no ...
... there can be no whitewash at the white house ... two wrongs do not make a right.  i love america.  god bless america and god bless each and every one of you.
sir ... six bodies.
yes.
when?
tomorrow.
ron told me that bob haldeman's been calling.  but you won't talk to him ... if he's convicted, will you pardon him?
no.
what exactly did you want to discuss, pat?
you.  what' you're doing --
and what am i doing?
i wish i knew.  you're hiding.
hiding what?
whatever it is you've always been hiding.  you're letting it destroy you, dick.  you won't even ask for help.  you're destroying yourself, dick.
i'm the only left, dick.  if you don't talk to me, you ...
brezhnev's coming in three days.  i don't want to deal with them.  and him.  and you.
no, it isn't.  i won't interfere with you anymore.  i'm finished trying.
thank you.
thank you?  dick, sometimes i understand why they hate you.
it's the president's personal property!  i will never give up my tapes to a bunch of kennedy-loving harvard democrat cocksuckers!
this could trigger the impeachment. they'll go to the supreme court next.
let 'em try!  i appointed three of those bastards!  i'm not giving 'em my tapes!
can the president afford to ignore a subpoena?
who the fuck does cox think he is?  i never made a dime from public office!  i'm honest.  my dad died broke.  you know the sonofabitch went to law school with jack kennedy? ... the last gasp of the establishment! they got the hell kicked out of 'em in the election, so now they gotta squeal about watergate 'cause we were the first real threat to them in years. and by god, al, we would have changed it, changed it so they couldn't have changed it back in a hundred years, if only ...
congress is considering four articles of impeachment, sir.
for what?!
sir, the charges are serious -- first, abuse of power; second, obstruction of justice; third, failure to cooperate with congress; and last, bombing cambodia ...
they can't impeach me for bombing cambodia.  the president can bomb anybody he wants.
you know, fred, they sell tickets.
sir?
they sell tickets to an impeachment. like a fucking circus ... okay, so they impeach me.  then it's a question of mathematics.  how many votes do we have in the senate?
about a dozen.
a dozen?  i got half of 'em elected. i still got the south and goldwater and his boys.  i'll take my chances with the senate.
shit, plenty of people did their best writing in prison.  gandhi, lenin ...
that's right.
what i know about this country, i ... i could rip it apart.  if they want a public humiliation, that's what they'll get.  but i will never resign this office.  where the fuck am i?
what's in there?
pows.  and their families.
so i'm supposed to be ...
compassionate.  grateful.
proud?
sir?
of them.
yes, yes.
fire him.
who?
cox!  fire him.
but he works for the attorney general. only richardson can fire him.
sir, if i may ... echo my concern ...
then tell richardson to fire him.
richardson won't do that.  he'll resign.
the hell he will!  fire him, too.  if you have to go all the way down to the janitor at the justice department, fire the sonofabitch!  and ...
there's more ... there's more than just me.  you can't break, my boy, even when there's nothing left.  you can't admit, even to yourself, that it's gone, al.  do you think those pows in there did?
no, sir ...
now some people, we both know them, al, think you can go stand in the middle of the bullring and cry, "mea culpa, mea culpa," while the crowd is hissing and booing and spitting on you.  but a man doesn't cry.  i don't cry.  you don't cry ... you fight!
why didn't you?
you can't expect me to explain that to you.
what matters to me is whether you understand it.
you don't expect me to believe that for one minute, do you?  does it matter what's on them? really? ... murder, dick?  sex?  your secrets, your fantasies?  or just me and you and ...
don't be ridiculous!
i remember alger hiss.  i know how ugly you can be -- you're capable of anything.  but you see, it doesn't really matter, at the end of the day, what's on them.  because you have absolutely no remorse.  no concept of remorse.  you want the tapes to get out, you want them to see you at your worst ...
you're drunk!
and what would i find out that i haven't known for years.  what makes it so damn sad is that you couldn't confide in any of us. you had to make a record ... for the whole world.
they were for me.  they're mine.
no.  they're not yours.  they are you. you should burn them.
you're lawyers.  how can you let this shit go by!  look!  this?  nixon can't say this.
you did say it, sir.
never.  i never said that about jews!
we could check the tape again, sir.
you don't need to check the tape.  i know what i said.
and this?!  good lord, have you lost your mind?  nixon can't say this. "niggers"!
well, we could delete it.
or we could write "expletive deleted."
... and get rid of all these "goddamns" and "jesus christs"!
for christ's sake, it soils my mother's memory.  do you think i want the whole goddamn world to see my mother like this?  raising a dirty mouth!
but sir, we'll have to start over from the beginning.  we don't have the staff to ...
... an action that will at last, once and for all, show that what i knew and what i did with regard to the watergate break-in and cover-up were just as i have described them to you from the very beginning ...
he's completely lost touch with reality.
i had no knowledge of the cover-up until john dean told me about it on march twenty-first.  and i did not intend that payment to hunt or anyone else be made ...
can you imagine what this man would have been had he ever been loved?
... because people have got to know whether or not their president is a crook.  well, i am not a crook.  i have never made a dime from public service ...
oh god, i'm going to throw up.
"victory at sea," al ... henry.  the pacific theatre.  christ, you can almost feel the waves breaking over the decks.
i'm afraid we have another problem, mr. president.
june twenty-third, '72, sir.  the part that's underlined.  your instructions to haldeman regarding the cia and the fbi.
so?
your lawyers feel it's the ... "smoking gun."
it's totally out of context.  i was protecting the national security.  i never intended --
sir, the deadline is today.
can we get around this, al?
it's the supreme court, sir; you don't get around it.
if you resign, you can keep your tapes as a private citizen ... you can fight them for years.
and if i stay?
the army?
lincoln used it.
that was civil war.
how do you see this?
we can't survive this, sir.  they also have you instructing dean to make the payoff to hunt.
there is nothing in that statement the president can't explain.
sir, you talked about opening up the whole "bay of pigs" thing again.
that's right ...
three days before, on the june twentieth tape -- the one with the eighteen-minute gap --
i don't know anything about that.
... you mentioned the "bay of pigs" several times.  sooner or later they're going to want to know what that means.  they're going to want to know what was on that gap ...
it's gone.  no one will ever find out what's on it.
yes, you always had a good sense of timing, henry.  when to give and when to take. how do you think mao, brezhnev will react?  do you think this is how they'll remember me, henry, after all the great things you and i did together? as some kind of ... of ... crooks?
they will understand, sir.  to be undone by a third-rate burglary is a fate of biblical proportions.  history will treat you far more kindly than your contemporaries.
that depends who writes the history books.  i'm not a quitter ... but i'm not stupid either ... a trial would kill me -- that's what they want.  but they won't get it.
if they harass you, i, too, will resign.  and i will tell the world why.
don't be stupid.  the world needs you, henry; you always saw the big picture. you were my equal in many ways.  you're the only friend i've got, henry.
you have many friends ... and admirers ...
do you ever pray?  you know ... believe in a supreme being?
uh ... not really.  you mean on my knees?
yes.  my mother used to pray ... a lot.  it's been a long time since i really prayed.  let's pray, henry; let's pray a little.
... uh, i hope this doesn't embarrass you.
not at all.  this is not going to leak, is it?
don't be too proud; never be too proud to go on your knees before god.
... they smelled the blood on me this time, al.  i got soft.  you know ... that rusty, metallic smell ...
i know it well, sir.
it came over from vietnam, you know.
sir?
that smell.  i mean, everybody suffered so much, their sons killed. they need to sacrifice something, y'know, appease the gods of war -- mars, jupiter.  i am that blood, general.  i am that sacrifice, in the highest place of all ... all leaders must finally be sacrificed.
it'll be over soon.
no ... it's just going to start now ...  if i could just ... if i could just ... sleep.
there'll be time for that.
howard ... what the hell?  what're you doing?
dogs ... season starts tomorrow.  it keeps me calm.  i don't like going back into the same building four times.
mein kampf?
"a warrior with nerves of steel is yet broken by a thread of silk." nietzsche.
personally i'd prefer a greyhound with a shot of speed.
remember -- listen up!  fire team discipline is there at all times. keep your radios on at all times during the entire penetration.  check yourselves.  phony id's, no wallets, no keys.  we rendezvous where?  the watergate, room 214.  when?  at zero three-hundred.
let's get the fuck out of here, shall we, ladies?
anything goes wrong, head for your homes, just sit tight -- you'll hear from me or howard.
personally, i'll be calling the president of the united states.
this is june twentieth?
it's marked.  also there's june twenty third.  and this year -- march twenty first.  those are the ones ...
sorry ...
... go on.
... y'know al, if hoover was alive none of this would've happened.  he would've protected the president.
mr. hoover was a realist.
i trusted mitchell.  it was that damn big mouth wife of his.
at least mitchell stood up to it.
not like the others -- dean, mccord, the rest ... we never got our side of the story out, al.  people've forgotten.  i mean: "fuck you, mr. president, fuck you tricia, fuck you julie!" and all that shit, just words, but what violence!  the tear gassing, the riots, burning the draft cards, black panthers -- we fixed it, al, and they hate me for it -- the double dealing bastards.  they lionize that traitor, ellsberg, for stealing secrets, but they jump all over me 'cause it's nixon.  ... they've always hated nixon.
may i say something, mr. president?
there's no secrets here, al.
you've never been a greater example to the country than you are now, sir, but ... but you need to get out more, sir, and talk to the people.  no one i know feels ... close to you.
no, sir, you did not.
damn right.  and there's still a helluva lotta people out there who wanna believe ... that's the point, isn't it?  they wanna believe in the president.
you're all set, sir.  just push this button.  good night, mr. president.
you know, al, men in your profession ... you give 'em a pistol and you leave the room.
i don't have a pistol.
'night, al.
they did what?!  i don't understand. why'd they go into o'brien's office in the first place?
evidently to install bugs and photograph documents.
but o'brien doesn't even use that office.  the democrats've moved to miami.  there's nothing there!
it was just a fishing expedition. apparently it was their fourth attempt at the dnc.
their fourth!
it's possible they were looking for evidence of an illegal howard hughes donation to the democrats, so the democrats couldn't make an issue of your hughes money.
contributions!  it was a legal contribution.  who the hell authorized this?  colson?
colson doesn't know about it; he's pure as a virgin on this one.  it's just not clear the burglars knew what they were looking for.  they were heading to mcgovern's office later that night.
jesus!  did mitchell know?
mitchell's out of his mind now. martha just put her head through a plate-glass window.
jesus!  through a window?
it was her wrist.  and it was through a plate-glass door.
anyway, they had to take her to bellevue.  maybe she'll stay this time.
martha's an idiot, she'll do anything to get john's attention.  if mitchell'd been minding the store instead of that nut martha we wouldn't have that kid magruder runnin' some third-rate burglary!  was he smoking pot?
mitchell?
no!  magruder!  that sonofabitch tests my quaker patience to the breaking point.
the bigger problem i see is this guy who was arrested, mccord -- james mccord -- he headed up security for the committee to re-elect.  he turns out to be ex-cia.
"ex-cia"?  there's no such thing as "ex-cia," john -- they're all ivy league establishment.  is he one of these guys with a beef against us?
mccord? ...
find out what the hell he was doing at "creep."  this could be trouble. these cia guys don't miss a trick. this could be a set-up.
we feel the bigger concern is gordon liddy ...
that fruitcake!  what about him?
well, you know, sir, he's a nut.  he used to work here with the "plumbers" and now he's running this watergate caper.  you remember his plan to firebomb the brookings using cubans as firemen?  he wanted to buy a damned fire truck!  magruder thinks he's just nutty enough to go off the reservation.
what's liddy got?
apparently he was using some campaign cash that was laundered for us through mexico.  the fbi's onto it.  we could have a problem with that.
i don't have time for all this shit!  just handle it, bob!  keep it out of the white house.  what else? kissinger's waiting -- he's gonna throw a tantrum again if i don't see him, threatening to quit ... again.
well, sir ... it turns out -- one of the people implicated is still, you see, on our white house payroll.
who?  not another goddamn cuban?
hunt?  howard hunt?
he left his white house phone number in his hotel room.
he works for colson.  he used him on the pentagon papers.  we're trying to figure out when he officially stopped being a white house consultant.  after the arrest he dumped his wiretapping stuff into his white house safe.
howard hunt is working for the white house?  no shit!  this is goddamn disneyland!  since when?
on the list of horribles, i know what he is.  and i know what he tracks back to.  you say he was involved in the plumbers?
definitely.  colson had him trying to break into bremer's apartment after bremer shot wallace, to plant mcgovern campaign literature.
i had nothing to do with that.  was he ... in the ellsberg thing?
yes, you approved it, sir.
i did?
it was right after the pentagon papers broke.  they went in to get his psychiatric records.
fucking hell.
we were working on china.
mr. president, we are in a revolutionary situation.  we are under siege -- black panthers, weathermen; the state department under rogers is leaking like a sieve.  and now this insignificant little shit ellsberg publishing all the diplomatic secrets of this country will destroy our ability to conduct foreign policy.
here, tim ... tim.  i'm as frustrated as you, henry, but don't you think this one's a democrat problem.  they started the war; it makes them look bad.
goddamn! how long have we had this fucking dog?!  two years, he still doesn't come!  we need a dog that looks happy when the press is around.
well, he's photogenic.  let's try dog bones?
fuck it!  he doesn't like me, john!  it's your fault, henry.
i beg your pardon --
it's your people who are leaking to the times.  wasn't this ellsberg a student of yours at harvard?  he was your idea; why are you suddenly running for cover?
he was, he was.  we taught a class together at harvard.  but you know these back-stabbing ivy league intellectuals, they can't ...
no, henry.  i don't.
he's turned into a drug fiend, he shot people from helicopters in vietnam, he has sexual relations with his wife in front of their children.  he sees a shrink in l.a.  he's all fucked up. now he's trying to be a hero to the liberals ... if he gets away with it, everybody will follow his lead.  he must be stopped at all costs.
we can prosecute the new york times, go for an injunction ...
... but it's not, bottom-line, gonna change a goddamn thing, john.  the question is: how do we screw ellsberg so bad it puts the fear of god into all leakers?
who are you talking to like this, you insignificant shit ...
... and what do we get for it?  gobs and gobs of bullshit, gossip, nothing! someone is leaking. we've got to stop the leaks, henry, at any cost, do you hear me?  then we can go for the big play -- china, russia.
well, why not?
our own intelligence capability -- to fix the leaks?
i like it.  i like the idea.
is it legal?  i mean has anyone ever done it before?
sure.  lyndon, jfk, fdr -- i mean, truman cut the shit out of my investigation of hiss back in '48.
it was illegal, what he did.
you know, this kinda thing, you gotta be brutal.  a leak happens, the whole damn place should be fired.  really. you do it like the germans in world war ii.  if they went through these towns and a sniper hit one of them, they'd line the whole goddamned town up and say: "until you talk you're all getting shot."  i really think that's what has to be done.  i don't think you can be mr. nice-guy anymore ...
the lie?
you remember, john, in '48 -- no one believed alger hiss was a communist. except me.  they loved hiss just like they loved this ellsberg character. east coast, ivy league.  he was their kind.  i was dirt to them.  nothing.
and dick beat the shit out of them.
but i wouldn't have if hiss hadn't lied about knowing chambers.  the documents were old and out of date, like these pentagon papers.  the key thing we proved was that hiss was a liar.  then people bought it that he was a spy.  it's the lie that gets you.
hiss was protecting his wife.  i've always believed that.
when they know you've got something to protect, that's when they fuck you!
alright, henry -- we're gonna go your way.  crush this ellsberg character the same way we did hiss!
there's no other choice.
we're gonna hit him so hard he looks like everything that's sick and evil about the eastern establishment.  you and your "plumbers" are gonna find dirt on this guy -- let's see him going to the bathroom in front of the american public!  and when we finish with him, they'll crucify him!
howard hunt? ... jesus christ, you open up that scab ... and you uncover a lot of pus.
what do you mean, sir?
where's hunt now?
in hiding.  he sent liddy to talk to me.
and?
he wants money.
pay him.
pay him?  i told him to get out of the country.  it's crazy to start ...
what the hell are you doing, ehrlichman?  screwing with the cia?  i don't care how much he wants -- pay him.
but what are we paying him for?
silence!
but, sir, you're covered -- no one here gave orders to break into the damned watergate.  we're clean.  it's only the ellsberg thing, and if that comes out, it's "national security."
"security" is not strong enough.
how about a comint classification?  we put it on the huston plan.  even the designation is classified.
"national priority."
"national security priority restricted and controlled secret."
we'll work on it.  i say we cut ourselves loose from these clowns and that's all there is to it.
it's more than that.  it could be more than that.  i want hunt paid.
uh, we've never done this before, sir ... how do we pay?  in ... hundreds?  do you fill a black bag full of unmarked bills?
this is not a joke, john!
no, sir.
we should set up a cuban defense fund on this; take care of all of them.
should we talk to trini about paying these guys?  or maybe chotiner?
no, keep trini out of this. chotiner's too old.  and for god's sake, keep colson out.  it's time to baptize our young counsel.  that means dean can never talk about it.  attorney-client privilege.  get to it.  and dean -- you stay close on this.
bob, did i approve the ellsberg thing? you know, i'm glad we tape all these conversations because ... i never approved that break-in at ellsberg's psychiatrist.  or maybe i approved it after the fact?  someday we've got to start transcribing the tapes.
you approved that before the fact, because i went over it with you.  but ...
uh, no one, of course, is going to see these tapes, but ...
that's right, and it's more a problem for ehrlichman.  he fixed hunt up with the phony cia id's, but ... what else does hunt have on us?
we've got to turn off the fbi.  you just go to the cia, bob, and tell helms that howard hunt is blackmailing the president.  tell him that hunt and his cuban friends know too damn much, and if he goes public, it would be a fiasco for the cia.  he'll know what i'm talking about.
all right.
play it tough.  that's the way they play it and that's the way we're going to play it.  don't lie to helms and say there's no involvement, but just say this is sort of a comedy of errors, bizarre, without getting into it.  say the president believes it's going to open up the whole bay of pigs thing again.  tell helms he should call the fbi, call pat gray, and say that we wish for the sake of the country -- don't go any further into this hanky-panky, period!
the bay of pigs? ... that was kennedy's screw-up.  how does that threaten us?
just do what i say, bob.
yes, sir, but ... do you think gray'll go for it?
pat gray'll do anything we ask him. that's why i appointed him.
he'll need a pretext.  he'll never figure one out for himself.
christ, you're right -- gray makes jerry ford look like mozart.  just have helms call him.  helms can scare anybody.
the only problem with that, sir -- it gets us into obstruction of justice.
it's got nothing to do with justice. it's national security.
how is this national security?
because the president says it is.  my job is to protect this country from its enemies, and its enemies are inside the walls.
i suppose you thought the presidency was above this sort of thing.
sir?
this isn't a "moral" issue, bob.  we have to keep our enemies at bay or our whole program is gonna go down the tubes.  the fbi is filled with people who are pissed that i put gray in and not one of their own.  vietnam, china, the soviet union: when you look at the big picture, bob, you'll see we're doing a hell of a lotta good in this world.  let's not screw it up with some shit-ass, third-rate burglary.
i'll talk to helms.  oh, pat asked if you're coming to the residence for dinner tonight.
no, no, not tonight.  don't let her in here.  i have too much to do.
yes, sir.  i'll talk to helms, and, uh ... what's our press position on this watergate thing?  what do i tell ziegler to tell them?
... when we consider the lineup of the world, we find there are 590 million people on our side, 800 million on the communist side, and 600 million who are neutral.  the odds are 5 to 3 against us ...
he wouldn't do the makeup.  said it was for queers.
i think ... i think ... that's the sort of very dangerous and irresponsible suggestion that ... helping the cuban exiles who oppose castro would, uh ... not only be a violation of international law, it would be ...
he's treading water.  don't mention khrushchev.
... an open invitation for mr. khrushchev to become involved in latin america.  we would lose all our friends in latin america.
meanwhile, what happens to the country?
the bastard!  if i'd called his shot on cuba i would've won.  he made me look soft.
we lost ...
i know ...
it's hard to lose ...
it makes us human ...
it's not fair, buddy.  i can take the insults; i can take the name-calling. but i can't take the losing.  i hate it.
we don't have to put ourselves through this again, dick.
what do you mean?  we worked for it. we earned it.  it's ours.
it is.  we know that.  and it's enough that we know.  just think of the girls.  they're still young.  we never see them.  i lost my parents.  i don't want them to lose theirs; i don't want them to grow up without a mother and father ...
maybe i should get out of the game. what do you think, buddy?  go back to being a lawyer and end up with something solid, some money at the end of the line ... you know, i keep thinking of my old man tonight.  he was a failure, too.
you're not a failure, dick.
you know how much money he had in the bank when he died?  nothing.  he was so damned honest ...  but i miss him.  i miss him a hell of a lot.
what'd he say?
what do you think?  he said in life there's no free ride.
what'd you say?
i said i didn't need a free ride.  i need a suit.
oh, no, harold.  he doesn't respond well to humor.  maybe if you talk to mother she can ...
i'd rather get a whipping than have another talk with her.  anything but a talk with her.
richard ... come with me, would you ...
why me?
because harold tests thy father's will is no reason to admire him.  let harold's worldliness be a warning to thee, not an example.
yes, mother ...
harold may have lost touch with his bible, but thou must never lapse.
do not tell a lie, richard ... the cornsilk cigarette harold gave thee behind the store this morning.
i don't ... have them.  mother ... i swear, i ... didn't smoke.
i see ... well then, richard, we have nothing more to talk about, do we?
please, mother, it ... it was just one time, mother, i'm ... i'm sorry.
so am i.  thy father will have to know of thy lying.
no, no!  please, don't.  don't tell him.  i'll never do it again.  i promise.  i promise ...  please, mama ...
i expect more from thee, richard.
please!  i'll never let you down again, mother.  never.  i promise.
then this shall be our little secret.  remember that i see into thy soul as god sees.  thou may fool the world. even thy father.  but not me, richard. never me.
mother, think of me always as your faithful dog ...
we haven't said grace yet.  richard.
is it my turn?
thank you, fidel castro.
you're not going to blame this on castro, are you?
i sure am.  the goddamned missile crisis united the whole country behind kennedy.  and he was supporting brown. people were scared, that's why.
i suppose castro staged the whole thing just to beat you.
buddy, before you join the jubilation at my being beaten again, you should remember: people vote not out of love, but fear.  they don't teach that at sunday school or at the whittier community playhouse!
don't you want to listen to brown's victory speech?
no.  i'm not going to listen to any more speeches ever again.
amen to that.
it's over, dick.
i'll concede in the morning.
not that.  us.
what are you saying?  what are you talking about?
i want a divorce.
my god -- divorce?  what about the girls?
the girls will grow up.  they only know you from television anyway.
it would ruin us, buddy, our family.
you're ruining us.  if we stay with you, you'll take us down with you.  this isn't political, dick.  this is our life.
everything's political, for christ's sake!  i'm political.  and you're political, too!
no, i'm not!  i'm finished.
this is just what they want, buddy. don't you see it?  they want to drive us apart.  to beat us.  we can't let them do it.  we've been through too much together, buddy ... we belong together.
that's what you said the first time we met.  you didn't even know me.
dick, don't...
buddy, look at me ... just look at me. do you really want me to quit?
we can be happy.  we really can.  we love you, dick.  the girls and i...
if i stop ... there'll be no more talk of divorce?
i'll do it.  no more.
are you serious?
yeah ... i'm out.
is that the truth?
i'll never run again.  i promise.
where are they?
dick, you don't have to make a statement.  herb covered it for you.
no!
sorry, dick.  she's a little tipsy.
you mean smashed!  she called up at midnight last week.  talking a bunch of crap.  pat can't stand her.
it's a thing she does.  she talks at night.
talks all day, too!  how the hell can you put up with her, john?
what the hell -- i love her.  and she's great in bed.
howya doin'!  new york treating you okay?  i'm sorry i haven't been able to see you at all--
well enough.  you're looking "happy," nelson.
oh, happy!  dick nixon ... you remember him.
hi, happy.  well, you're obviously making him happy.
repartee, dick -- very good.  hey, i feel ten years younger!  it makes a helluva difference, let me tell ya! how's the lawyer life?
never made so much money in my life. but my upbringing doesn't allow me to enjoy it.  i did get to argue a case before the supreme court.
won or lost?
lost.
someday, dick.
but being out of the game gives me time to write.
to what?
write.  you know, a book.  i'm calling it "six crises."  it's a good thing, rocky -- take some time off to write.
hiya, fellow ... what were they?
what?
the "crises"?
"checkers" of course, hiss, ike's heart attack, venezuela, the kitchen debate, and kennedy.
sounds like you got a crisis syndrome. aren't you exaggerating a bit, dick? call it three-and-a-half, maybe four ...
let's wait and see how you survive your first crisis, rocky ...
whatcha mean by that?
you know: how the voters are gonna play your divorce.
well, in any case, rocky, i'll send you my book.  "six crises."
whatcha predicting -- your boy goldwater going to split the party?
some say you are, rocky.
the republican party was never home to extremists.  you should know better. this guy's as stupid as mccarthy, and mccarthy never did you any good in the long run, now did he?
hey, you know henry kissinger -- he's down from harvard.  on my staff, foreign policy whiz ...
no, but i liked your book on nuclear weapons.  we have similar views on the balance of power ...
well, that's wonderful.  so get me this "crisis" thing, dick; i'll be glad to take a look at it.
... as the old alliances crumble.
finally someone who's noticed!  i'm a great admirer of yours, too, mr. nixon.  you are an unusual politician. we share a mutual idol -- "six crises" sounds like a page from churchill.
churchill, degaulle, disraeli.  they all went through the pain of losing power.
but they all got it back again, didn't they?  we should have lunch sometime.
rocky's full of shit!  no way he's going to get nominated west of the hudson with a new wife.  he's gonna be drinking scotches in retirement at some goddamn country club with the rest of the republicans.
goes to show you all the moolah in the world can't buy you a brain.
well, he seems to have bought kissinger.
the jewboy's a harvard whore with the morals of an eel -- sells himself to the highest bidder.
you're the one who should be in politics, john.  you're tougher than i am.  you never crack.
that'll be the day.
let's get out of here; it's too painful.  i hate it.  we went bowling last weekend.  next weekend we're going to the zoo. whoever said there was life after politics was full of shit.
make some money, dick, prove yourself to the wall street crowd and let goldwater and rockefeller take the fall against kennedy.
thanks, jack.  you sure throw a helluva party.
party ain't started yet, dick.  got these gals coming over to the ranch later for a little private "thing," y'know ... there's some fellows i want you to meet.
well, uh, trini and i have an early plane.  we were hoping to get back to new york in time for ...
like you said jack, i'm just a new york lawyer now.
we'll see about that.
i know for a fact that the one with the big tits is a republican, and she'd do anything for the party.
she's quite pretty.
her name's sandy ...
by the way, jack, this looks like a pretty straight-forward transaction to me, but we should get into it soon -- just take a few minutes, maybe up at the house ...
he's all business, ain't he, trini?  dick, we could've had our own goddamn lawyers handle this deal.  we brought you down here 'cause we wanted to talk to you ...
hi.
hello ...
that's julie ... and that's tricia. she, uh, reminds me a little bit of you ...
oh yeah ... she really is ... wholesome.
... i don't really know you yet, sandy ... what do you like?  i mean, what kind of clothes do you like?  do you like blue ... red?
oh, i like satin, i like pink ...
what kind of, uh ... music do you like?
i like jazz ...
yeah ... guy lombardo ...
elvis i like, too.
oh yeah, he's good.
... but it depends on what i'm doing to the music, dick ...
uh, is your mother ... still alive?
yeah, she lives in dallas ...
she must be very attractive.  would she like an autograph?  she might remember me ... where's trini?
hell, kennedy's pissed cuba away to the russians.  and he don't know what the hell he's doing in vietnam.  these are dangerous times, dick, especially for business ...
agreed.
gentlemen, i tried.  i told kennedy to go into cuba.  he heard me and he made his decision.  i appreciate your sentiments.  i've heard them from many fine cuban patriots, but it's nothing i can do anything about.  now, it's a long drive back to dallas tonight, and trini and i have got an early flight tomorrow to new york ...
dick, these boys want you to run.  they're serious.  they can deliver the south and they can put texas in your column.  that would've done it in '60.
only if kennedy dumps johnson.
that sonofabitch kennedy is coming back down here tomorrow.  dick, we're willing to put up a shitpot fulla money to get rid of him -- more money'n you ever dreamed of.
nobody's gonna beat kennedy in '64 with all the money in the world.
yes, well ... gentlemen, i promised my wife.  i'm out of politics.
you just came down here for the weather, right, mr. nixon?
i came down here to close a deal for studebaker.
dick, you should call bobby.
he doesn't want me at the funeral.
you don't have to go.
de gaulle's gonna be there.  and macmillan.  and adenauer. nixon can't not be there.
then call him.  i'm sure it was an oversight.
no.  it's his way.  he hates me.  him and teddy.  they always hated me.
they've lost a brother.  you know what that means, dick.
we got the press this time!
and we got the "big mo"!  we're back!
were you planning to tell me?
we ... haven't announced anything ... uh ...
uh, wait ...
you need her, dick -- in '60 she was worth five, six million votes.
don't worry -- i'll use the old nixon charm on her.
buddy? ...
you should be going ... the primaries are soon, aren't they?  new hampshire ...
they love you, buddy.  they need you, too.
i don't want them to love me.
i need you out there.  it won't be like last time.  the war's crippled the democrats.  i can win ... we deserve it.  yeah, it's ours, buddy -- at last.  nobody knows better than you.  frank nixon's boy.
it was our dream, too, buddy, together ... always.
do you really want this, dick?
this.  above all.
and then you'll be happy?
yes ... you know it!  yes ... i will. yeah!
then i'll be there for you.
you're the strongest woman i ever met. i love you, buddy.
can i just ask for one thing?
anything.
will you ... would you kiss me?
cue the crowd.  go to the woman's group.  get the bald guy, he's great ...
i, unlike senator kennedy, have a plan to end the war.  but not for peace at any price, but peace with honor!
what do you think this plan is, edgar? a nuclear attack?
he's lying, clyde.  always has. that's why nixon's always been useful. hold still.  and take your hand off your hip.
... give me a break, mary.
you all know me.  i'm one of you, i grew up a stone's throw from here on a little lemon ranch in yorba linda ...
it was the poorest lemon ranch in california, i can tell you that.  my father sold it before they found oil on it.
it was the poorest lemon ranch in california, i can assure you.  my father sold it before they found oil on it.
but it was all we had.
... but it was all we had.
my father built the house where i was born with his own hands.  oh, it wasn't a big house ...
turn this crap off, clyde.  it's giving me a headache ... you may go, joaquin.
i want to see him tomorrow, clyde.
edgar, think twice.  he works in the kitchen.
not joaquin, you idiot.  nixon.  did you hear what he said in oregon? about me having too much power.
it's between nixon and a kennedy again, edgar ... who do you want?
kennedy -- never.  he'll fry in hell for what he did to me.  but nixon doesn't know that, which is why i'm gonna have to remind him he needs us a helluva lot more'n we need him.
edgar, wonderful to see you.  clyde ... hi.
mr. nixon.
thank you for coming, dick.
winning?
actually, i've just had a bit of luck.
oh, my goodness ...
how about you?  are you going to win?
you should ask bobby.
... little bobby.
would you walk with me down to the paddock?  i'd like to look at the horses for the eighth.
can't we just talk here?  i've got the police chiefs in san diego.
i'm trying to spare you an embarrassment.  johnny roselli is on his way back here.
roselli?  johnny roselli?
yes.  your old friend from cuba.
i never met the man.
i know you've been very careful not to.  that's why i'm concerned.
you'll win the nomination.
it could be '60 all over again, edgar. bobby's got the magic, like a goddamn rock star.  they climb all over each other just to touch his clothes! he'll ride his brother's corpse right into the white house.
ummm...
if things remain as they are ... he's got the anti-war vote.
or he'll steal it like his brother. he's a mean little sonofabitch, edgar ... he had the irs audit my mother when she was dying in a nursing home.
i know ...
... somebody should shoot the little bastard.
i wanna fight just as dirty as he does.
... use his women.
... any information you have, edgar. the sonofabitch is not gonna steal from me again!  can you back me up on this?  can i count on your support?
yeah, well, as i said, edgar ...
you asked if you could count on my support ... as long as i can count on yours.
the old queen did it on purpose.
he wasn't protecting me.  he was putting me on notice.
what?  that he knew johnny roselli? hoover knew a lot of gangsters.
yeah, but roselli wasn't just any gangster.  he was the gangster who set up track 2 in cuba.
i don't understand.  track 2's chile?
chile, congo, guatemala, cuba. wherever's there's a need for an executive action capability, there's a track 2.  in cuba, track 1 was the bay of pigs invasion.  track 2 ... it was our idea.  we felt the invasion wouldn't work unless we got rid of castro.  so we asked ourselves -- who else wants castro dead?  the mafia, the money people.   so we put together track 2 ...
the first assassination attempt was in '60, just before the election.
before?!  eisenhower approved that?
he didn't veto it.  i ran the white house side.  the mob contact was johnny roselli.  one of the cia guys was that jackass, howard hunt.
jesus!
and not just hunt.  frank sturgis, all those cubans.  all of them in the watergate.  they were involved in track 2 in cuba.  hunt reported to my military aide. but i met with him several times as vice president.  that's what worries the shit out of me.  i don't know how much hunt knows.  or the cubans.
so?  you wanted castro dead. everybody wanted castro dead.  if hunt and the others are cia, why don't we just throw this back in the cia's lap? let richard helms take the fall?
because ... because dick helms knows too much ... if anyone in this country knows more than i do, it's hoover and helms!  you don't fuck with dick helms!  period.
alright.  but why, if kennedy is so clean in all this, didn't he cancel track 2?
because he didn't even know about it. the cia never told him, they just kept it going.  it was like ... it had a life of its own.  like ... a kind of "beast" that doesn't even know it exists.  it just eats people when it doesn't need 'em anymore.  two days after the bay of pigs, kennedy called me in.  he reamed my ass ...
... he'd just found out about track 2.
you never told him?
i didn't want him to get the credit. he said i'd stabbed him in the back. called me a two-bit grocery clerk from whittier.
if they didn't tell kennedy about track 2, how did hoover find out?
they had us bugged.  christ, he had everybody bugged.  yeah, he was gonna support me in '68, but he was also threatening me.  that was hoover: he'd give you the carrot, but he'd make damn sure the stick went right up your ass.
hey ... you'll be able to do it now.
what ... ?
go to law school.  mom and dad'll be able to afford it now ...
mom expects great things from you ...
harold ... can i get you anything?
relax, dick, it's just me ... the desert's so beautiful, isn't it?  i want to go home, dick.  time to go home.
you're not gonna quit on me, are you, harold?
i can't ...
thou must.
it's a gift, richard.  this law school is a gift from your brother.
did he have to die for me to get it?!
it's meant to make us stronger.  thou art stronger than harold ... stronger than arthur.  god has chosen thee to survive ...
what about happiness, mother?
thou must find thy peace at the center, richard.  strength in this life.  happiness in the next.
well, as you know, most of my staff have weighed in against this "incursion."  they believe it will fail to achieve anything fundamental militarily, and will result in crushing criticism domestically ...
i didn't ask what your staff thinks, henry.  what do you think?
what i think is ... they're cowards. their opposition represents the cowardice of the eastern establishment.  they don't realize as you do, mr. president, that the communists only respect strength, and they will only negotiate in good faith if they fear the "madman," richard nixon.
exactly!  we've got to take the war to them.  hit 'em where it hurts -- right in the nuts.  more assassinations, more killings.  right, al?
that's what they're doing.
these state department jerks, bill, don't understand; you got to electrify people with bold moves.  bold moves make history, like teddy roosevelt -- "t.r." -- rushing up san juan hill.  small event but dramatic.  people took notice.
how many?
four.  two boys.  two girls.  and eight wounded.
jesus christ!
one of the fathers was on the tv saying, "my child was not a bum."  and it's playing like gangbusters.  hell, hoover told me one of the girls was a nymph.
shit, the press doesn't care about the facts.  cronkite's sticking it to me. it's their first big hit on richard nixon.
oh, i suppose you would've just let them take over.  these aren't fraternity pranks, john.  it's anarchy.  a revolution!
i don't know if i'd go that far, sir.
why not?
is the war worth it?  is it worth a one-term presidency?  because i think right now that's what we're looking at.
i will not go down as the first american president to lose a war! going into cambodia, bombing hanoi, bombing laos -- it buys us time so we can get out and give the south vietnamese a fighting chance.
exactly, sir.  that is your historical contribution: to lead boldly in an era of limits.
no one understands! -- even my own men.  what do you think the communists respond to?  honesty, liberal guilt, soul-wringing crap, fathers on tv crying?  hell no!  i understand the communist mind, i've studied it for thirty years.  they grasp "realpolitik" better than any of us, right, henry?
we gotta make 'em think we're just as tough as they are -- that nixon's a mad bomber, he might do anything!  i played a lot of poker in world war ii , and i won big, and let me tell you this -- unpredictability is our best asset.  that redneck johnson left me with a shitty hand and i'm bluffing.  i've got to play the hawk in vietnam and the dove in china. and if we keep our heads, we can win this thing.
what?  win vietnam, sir?
that's triangular diplomacy, gentlemen.
exactly, yes, mr. president.  that is my contention.
that's what geopolitics is about -- the whole world linked by self interest ... you tell me, ron, how the hell i can explain that on television to a bunch of simple-minded reporters and weeping fucking mothers!
but what am i telling the press about kent state?
tell 'em what you like; they'll never understand it anyway.
excuse me ... are you talking about recognizing china, mr. president? that would cost us our strongest support.
no ... i can do this because i've spent my whole career building anti communist credentials.
this will get me a second term.  damn it, without risk, there's no heroism. there's no history.  i, nixon, was born to do this.
mr. president, this cannot be breathed!  especially to our secretary of state -- that cretin rogers ... the chinese would never trust us again. the only way, i emphasize only way, to pull this off is in secret.
this is a major coup, gentlemen -- our own state department doesn't even know.  and if it leaks out of here tonight ...
well, one way or the other, kent state is not good.  we have to get out in front of this thing.  the pr is going to murder us.
money.  follow the money.
sir?
these kids are being manipulated by the communists.  like chambers and hiss.
this isn't '48, dick.  they'll never buy it.
how do you know that, john?  did we try?  are we just giving up like the rest of 'em?  what's hoover found, for god's sake?
we can't touch hoover --
i thought the gloves were off.
-- as long as he's got secret files on everybody.  i don't want 'em used against us.  what about the cia?  helms's done nothing for us.  i want to see him.
the soldiers were provoked.  the students started it, for christ's sake!
sir, there's dead american kids here. let's say we don't apologize for kent state, but maybe we could have a national prayer day ...
... never complain, never explain, john ...
i tell you, the soldiers were provoked.  now stop this pussyfooting around.  dead kids!  how the hell did we ever give the democrats a weapon like this?  i mean, if cambodia doesn't work, we'll bomb hanoi if we have to.
that's right!  and if necessary, i'll drop the big one.
we have to entertain the possibility ...
you all right?
my brother harold was about the same age as those kids, john.  tuberculosis got him.
it wasn't your fault.  the soldiers were just kids, too.  they panicked.
they were throwing rocks, john, just rocks.  they don't think i feel ... but i feel too much sometimes.  i just can't let a whole policy get dominated by our sentimentality.
you're doing the right thing, dick ... don't let 'em shake you.
it broke my heart when harold died.
that was a long time ago.
get off that.  that leads nowhere. you should offer condolences to the families of those kids.
sure, i'd like to offer condolences.
... and we've got the economic guys at five.  the dow lost another 16 points. they're going to want a decision on the budget.  sir?  ... are we holding the line on a balanced budget?
no ... a little deficit won't hurt. jesus, they're serious.  why're we stopping?
run 'em over.
get that little fucker!  great tackle! reminds me of my days at whittier. most of these kids are useless.
probably flunking, nothing to do except come down here and meet girls. henry's out there with them.
there's a poison in the upper classes, bob.  they've had it too soft.  too many cars, too many color tvs ...
don't forget the south, sir, the west. filled with the good football colleges, straight kids.  there's more of 'em with you than against you.  not like these mudmutts.
it's the parents' fault really.
let's not forget they're just kids, they don't vote.
it's the fall of the roman empire, are you blind?  and we're putting fig leaves on the statues ...
but, hell, this is nothing compared to venezuela.  when i was vice president, ike sent me down there like a blocking back.  they threw rocks, broke out our windows, almost overturned the car. read six crises, bob.  boy, pat was brave!
yeah, we've got to get our vice president off the golf course and back there on the college circuit.  that's top priority.
he's in the dumps, sir.  agnew.  every time you have him attack the press, they give it back to him in spades. he's become the most hated man in america.
yeah, good old spiro.  well, better him than me.  what the hell is he but an insurance policy?
he's begging for a meeting, chief.  he wants to go overseas for awhile.
well, no place where they speak english.  that way he can always say he was misquoted.
mr. president, i don't know what to say.  as soon as we learned from the secret service you were en route, the director was notified.  he should be here any minute.
where the hell is he?
uh, he's rushing back from his tennis game, sir ...
so ... let's go ...
he told me to take you to his conference room.
no.  his office.  i want a very private conversation.  i don't want to be bugged.
then his office will be fine.
how's the job coming, bob?
frankly, sir, it stinks.  i have no access.  i'm lucky helms lets me have a staff.
we'll see about that ...
he's nervous, sir.  he's heard you're looking for a new director.
well, he certainly isn't acting like it.
that's helms.  he's "sang froid," a world-class poker player.
yeah?  well, i own the fucking casino.
i'm honored, dick, that you've come all this way out here to virginia to visit us at last.
my friends call me "mister president."
and so shall i.  arrange some coffee, would you general cushman?
robert cushman is a lieutenant general in the marine corps, the deputy director of the cia ... and this is what you use him for?
i didn't choose him as my deputy, mr. president.  you did.
i suppose, "mister president," you're unhappy that we have not implemented your domestic intelligence plan, but ...
you're correct.  i'm concerned these students are being funded by foreign interests, whether they know it or not.  the fbi is worthless in this area.  i want your full concentration on this matter ...
of course we've tried, but so far we've come up with nothing that ...
then find something.  and i want these leaks stopped.  jack fucking anderson, the new york times, the state department -- i want to know who's talking to them.
i'm sure you realize this is a very tricky area, mr. president, given our charter and the congressional oversight committees ...
screw congressional oversight.  i know damn well, going back to the '50's, this agency reports what it wants, and buries what it doesn't want congress to know.  pay close attention to this.
is there something else that's bothering you, mr. president?
yes ... it involves some old and forgotten papers.  things i signed as vice president.  i want the originals in my office and i don't want copies anywhere else.
you're referring, of course, to chairing the special operations group as vice president.
yes ...
diem?  trujillo?  lumumba?  guatemala? cuba? ... it's a shame you didn't take similar precautions, dick.
i'm interested in the documents that put your people together with ... the others.  all of them ...
president kennedy threatened to smash the cia into a thousand pieces.  you could do the same ...
i'm not jack kennedy.  your agency is secure.
not if i give you all the cards ...
i promised the american people peace with honor in southeast asia.  that could take time -- two, maybe three years ... in the meantime, your agency will continue at current levels of funding.
current levels may not be sufficient.
the president would support a reasonable request for an increase.
and me? ...
firing you, mr. helms, wouldn't do any good.  of course you'll continue as dci.  you're doing a magnificent job.
and of course i accept.  i'm flattered.  and i want you to know, i work for only one president at a time.
yes.  and you will give general cushman full access.
it will take a little time, but i'll order a search for your papers. though it does raise a disturbing issue.
what?
mr. castro.
yes.
we have recent intelligence that a soviet nuclear submarine has docked at cienfuegos.
well, we'll lodge a formal protest.
i don't think we can treat this as a formality.  mr. kennedy made a verbal promise to the russians not to invade cuba.  but you authorized dr. kissinger to put this in writing.
are you tapping kissinger?
my job, unpleasant sometimes, is to know what others don't want me to know.
not if you have spies in the white house, it isn't your job.
it is not my practice to spy on the president.  doctor kissinger manages to convey his innermost secrets to the world at large on his own.
mr. helms, we've lived with communism in cuba for ten years ...
... but it has never been the policy of this government to accept that. and it is certainly not cia policy.
cia policy?  the cia has no policy, mr. helms.  except what i dictate to you ...  i try to adjust to the world as it is today, not as you or i wanted it to be ten years ago.
is that why you and kissinger are negotiating with the chinese?
this is an extremely dangerous direction, mr. president.  terrible consequences can result from such enormous errors in judgement.
but ... if we were able to separate china from russia once and for all, we can -- we could create a balance of power that would secure the peace into the next century.
by offering cuba to the russians as a consolation prize?
cuba would be a small price to pay.
so president kennedy thought.
i never thought jack was ready for the presidency.  but i would never, never consider ...  his death was awful, an awful thing for this country.  do you ever think of death, mr. helms?
flowers are continual reminders of our mortality.  do you appreciate flowers?
no.  they make me sick.  they smell like death ... i had two brothers die young.  but let me tell you, there are worse things than death.  there is such a thing as evil.
you must be familiar with my favorite poem by yeats?  "the second coming"?
no.
black irishman.  very moving. "turning and turning in the widening gyre / the falcon cannot hear the falconer / things fall apart, the center cannot hold / mere anarchy is loosed upon the world / and everywhere the ceremony of innocence is drowned / the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity" ... but it ends so beautifully ominous -- "what rough beast, its hours come round at last / slouches toward bethlehem to be born?" ... yes, this country stands at such a juncture.
he looked old, didn't he?
i asked him, "lyndon, what would you do, on a scale of one to ten?"  and he said, "bomb the shit out of hanoi, boy!  bomb them where they live." ... john, do you think i was too soft on tv?
hi, buddy.  what are you doing in here?
i've missed you.
are you okay?
why don't we go down to key biscayne together?  just the two of us.
because ... i have to relax.
i was thinking tonight -- do you remember, dick?  do you remember when you used to drive me on dates with the other boys?  you didn't want to let me out of your sight.
yeah, sure, a long time ago.
yes, it's been a long time ...
i don't need that, buddy.  i'm not jack kennedy.
no, you're not.  so stop comparing yourself to him.  you have no reason to ... you have everything you ever wanted. you've earned it.  why can't you just enjoy it?
i do.  i do.  in my own way.
then what are you scared of, honey?
i'm not scared, buddy.  you don't understand.  they're playing for keeps, buddy.  the press, the kids, the liberals -- they're out there, trying to figure out how to tear me down.
they're all your enemies?
yes!
you personally?
yes!  this is about me.  why can't you understand that, you of all people? it's not the war -- it's nixon!  they want to destroy nixon!  and if i expose myself even the slightest bit they'll tear my insides out.  do you want that?  do you want to see that, buddy?  it's not pretty.
sometimes i think that's what you want.
you've been drinking.  what the hell are you saying?  jesus, you sound like them now! ...  i've gotta keep fighting, buddy, for the country.  these people running things, the elite ... they're soft, chickenshit faggots!  they don't have the long-term vision anymore.  they just want to cover their asses or meet girls or tear each other down.  oh, god, this country's in deep trouble, buddy ... and i have to see this through.  mother would've wanted no less of me ... i'm sorry, buddy.
no, i don't.  i'm not jack ...
but they never will, dick.  no matter how many elections you win, they never will.
i was asleep, mr. president.  what can i get you?
just ... uh ... you know.
of course.
do you miss cuba, manolo?
yes, mr. president.
we let you down, didn't we.  your people.
that was mr. kennedy.
you don't think he was a hero?
he was a politician.
did you cry when he died?
yes.
why?
i don't know.  he made me see the stars ...
how did he do that?  all those kids ... why do they hate me so much?
hi, i'm dick nixon.
you're shittin' me.
where you from?
syracuse.
the orangemen!  now there's a football program.  jim brown.  and that other tailback ... the one with the blood disease ...
ernie davis.
right, right.  i used to play a little ball myself at whittier.  of course, they used me as a tackling dummy.
we didn't come here to talk about football.  we came here to end the war.
yes, i understand that.
what you have to understand, mr. nixon, is that we are willing to die for what we believe in.
that man up there lived in similar times.  he had chaos and civil war and hatred between the races ... sometimes i go to the lincoln room at the white house and just pray.  you know, the liberals act like idealism belongs to them, but it's not true.  my family went republican because lincoln freed the slaves.  my grandmother was an abolitionist.  it was quakers who founded whittier, my hometown, to abolish slavery.  they were conservative bible folk, but they had a powerful sense of right and wrong ... forty years ago i was looking, as you are now, for answers.  but you know, ending the war and cleaning up the air and the cities, feeding the poor -- my mother used to feed hobos stopping over at our house - none of it is going to satisfy the spiritual hunger we all have, finding a meaning to this life ...
mr. president!
it's okay, bob, we're just rapping, my friends and i.  we actually agree on a lot of things ...
no, we don't!  you're full of shit! you say you want to end the war, so why don't you?  my brother died over there last november.  why?  what good was his death?
i know.  i know.  i've seen a lot of kids die, too, in world war ii.
come on, man -- vietnam ain't germany. it doesn't threaten us.  it's a civil war between the vietnamese.
but change always comes slowly.  i've withdrawn more than half the troops. i'm trying to cut the military budget for the first time in thirty years.  i want an all-volunteer army.  but it's also a question of american credibility, our position in the world ...
someone wants it ...  you can't stop it, can you?  even if you wanted to.  because it's not you. it's the system.  and the system won't let you stop it ...
there's a lot more at stake here than what you want.  or even what i want ...
then what's the point?  what's the point of being president?  you're powerless.
no, no.  i'm not powerless.  because ... because i understand the system. i believe i can control it.  maybe not control it totally.  but ... tame it enough to make it do some good.
it sounds like you're talking about a wild animal.
maybe i am.
we really must go, mr. president.
don't forget, the most important thing in your life is your relationship with your maker ...  don't forget to be on god's side.
she got it, bob.  a nineteen-year-old college kid ...
what?
she understood something it's taken me twenty-five fucking years in politics to understand.  the cia, the mafia, the wall street bastards ...
sir?
... "the beast."  a nineteen-year-old kid.  she understands the nature of "the beast."  she called it a wild animal.
there must be a quarter-million out there, edgar.  they've been at it now for a year.  young kids just like tricia.  i don't know.  do you think they have a point, edgar?  maybe this whole damned system of government is ...
remember what lenin said in 1917, mr. president: "the power was lying in the streets just waiting for someone to pick it up."  the communists have never been closer.  now is the time to go back to the old themes, the ones that made you president.  let the communists know you're onto them.
the little bastards think they can ruin tricia's wedding day by dancing naked in the reflecting pond.
don't listen to 'em, don't quit. remember - kennedy, bobby, and king were against the war.  where are they now?  don't give 'em a goddamn inch on the war.  president johnson bombed laos for years and nobody knew or said a thing.  how the hell the times ever got ahold of this ellsberg stuff is a disgrace!
we can't keep a goddamn secret in this government, edgar.  they're stealing papers right out of his office.
johnson had the same damned problem till he bugged his own office.
we took his system out.
that was a mistake.  the white house was full of kennedy people then.  it still is.
who do you think is behind it?
well, you have cia people all over the place.  helms has seen to that.  then there's kissinger's staff. kissinger himself, i believe, maybe the leaker.
kissinger?
he's obsessed with his own image.  he wants his nobel peace prize a little too much.  as the late "doctor" king proved -- even an ape can win a prize with good press.
jesus, i'd like to book him into a psychiatrist's office.  he comes in here ranting and raving, dumping his crap all over the place ... could you prove it, edgar?
i always get my man.
yeah, you do.  i'd be bugging myself, edgar ... who'd get the tapes?
no one.  your property.  it would prove your case.  why do you think kissinger's taping your calls?  for history.  his word against yours -- and right now he's got the records.
this damned tie ... will you help me, edgar?  churchill used to say to me, "if you want your own history written properly, you must write it yourself."  all right, edgar, but just don't let it come back to haunt me.
it won't.  as long as i'm here.
how the fuck did you know?
injections.  even this noble sport's been fixed.  seen the guys?
they're around.
why, you got a customer?
the white house.
you're fucking me.
we're gonna be plumbers, frank.  we're gonna plug a leak.
who we working for?
a guy named gordon liddy.  thinks he's martin borman.  you wanna meet him?
where'd you find him?
just don't tell him to do anything you don't really want him to do.
so, does tricky dick know about this?
i won't tell him if you won't.
i must say you look very good, mr. chairman.
looks can be deceiving ...
we know you've taken a great risk in inviting us here.
don't ever trust them.  they never tell the truth or honor their commitments.  vietnamese are like russians.  both are dogs.
mr. chairman, there is an old saying: the enemy of my enemy is my friend.
that has the added virtue of being true.
you know, mr. chairman, at harvard i used your writings in my class.
what a waste of time.  my writings mean absolutely nothing.
but your writings have changed the world, mr. chairman.
fung pi!   i've only managed to change a few things around the city of beijing.  i want to know your secret.
secret, mr. chairman?
how a fat man gets so many girls.
you know, i voted for you in your last election.
i was the lesser of two evils.
you're too modest, nixon.  you're as evil as i am.  we're both from poor families.  but others pay to feed the hunger in us.  in my case, millions of reactionaries.  in your case, millions of vietnamese.
civil war is always the cruelest kind of war.
the real war is in us.  history is a symptom of our disease.
penny for your thoughts.
is that adjusted for inflation?  think of the life mao's led.  in '52 i called him a monster.  now he could be our most important ally.  only nixon could've done that.
you're a long way from whittier.
congratulations, dick.
how am i going to break this to bob hope?
not for the pentagon it isn't.  i'm kissing mao's ass.  and the press is gonna find some way to shaft nixon on this one.
it's not the press that matters. nixon's wife is proud of him.
and his staff.  come on, the copy they were filing from china was great.
wait till the mai-tais wear off.
the country's loving it.
the hard-core four million "nixon nuts" aren't gonna go for it ... they'll say i sold out to the communists.
you'll pick up the middle on this one - the jews and negros.
jews and negros don't win elections, henry.  better to hang them around the democrats' necks.
the jews aren't the middle, henry. they're the far left.
you're talking too much about black africa, henry.  it's killing us with the rednecks.
the blacks are lost, the "schwartzes" are gone ...
don't let it lose us the right-wing vote ...
mr. president, the press guys asked if you could come back for a minute.
the hell with 'em.
no, they want you, mr. president.  i really think it would be a good move.
gentlemen, i go now to discover the exact length, width and depth of the shaft.
so, what's this about, dick?
it's me or wallace, jack.  wallace's third party is only going to help mcgovern.  i need your support.
well, you sure been chock full of surprises so far, "mister president."
it looks like to me we're gonna lose the war for the first goddamned time and, dick, goddamn it, you're going along with it, buying into this kissinger bullshit -- "detente" with the communists.  "detente" -- it sounds like two fags dancing.
jack, we're not living in the same country you and i knew in '46.  our people are just not gonna sacrifice in major numbers for war.  we can't even get 'em to accept cuts in their gas tanks.  hell, the arabs and the japanese are bleeding the shit out of our gold ..
and whose fault is that?  if we'd won in vietnam ...
it's nobody's fault, jack.  it's change -- which is a fact of history. even that old cocksucker hoover's dead.  things change.
so ... how's the food over there in china, mr. nixon?
free, if you're the president.
what are you going to do about this allende fellow nationalizing our businesses in chile?  you gonna send kissinger down there?
we're gonna get rid of him -- allende, i mean -- just as fast as we can. he's on the top of the list.
how about kissinger along with him?
kissinger's misunderstood.  he pretends to be a liberal for his establishment friends, but he's even tougher than i am ...
desi's got a point.  what the hell are we gonna do about the communists right here in our backyard?!
what do you mean, jack?
i mean i got federal price controls on my oil.  the ragheads are beating the shit out of me.  and i got your epa environment agency with its thumb so far up my ass it's scratching my ear.
gentlemen, i think it's about time for us to be getting to the airport.
let him finish, bob.
... and now i have a federal judge ordering me to bus my kids halfway 'cross town to go to school with some nigger kids. i think, mr. president, you're forgetting who put you where you are.
the american people put me where i am.
because if you're uncomfortable with the epa up your ass, try the irs ...
well, goddamn.  are you threatening me, dick?
presidents don't threaten.  they don't have to.  good day, gentlemen.
you know, they all miss the point. probably our biggest achievement as an administration, when it's all said and done, isn't china or russia.  it's pulling out of vietnam without a right wing revolt.
i believe you're right, boss.
... but even the presidency isn't enough anymore ...
sir?
the presidency won't protect us, bob. we're beyond politics now ...
congratulations, boss.  a great victory!  the madman theory wasn't so crazy after all.
this could be it ... this could be it. four long years ...
yeah ... sullivan thinks henry's leaking.  he's the one ...
yeah, i knew it.  i knew it from '69 on, and i said it all along, didn't i ...
no, you didn't, bob.
looks like he talked to joe kraft ... and to the times.  told them he was dead set against the bombing, that you were ... "unstable."  claims he has to handle you "with kid gloves" ...
so that explains his press notices. working both sides of the fence: jewboy henry, always trying to get his nobel prize, get laid ...
my god, my god!  he talked to the new york times?
we ought to fire his whining ass. right now when he's on top.  you know what -- it'll set the right example for the rest of this administration.
i would personally enjoy doing that, sir.
no, no.  he's our only "star" right now.  he'd go crying straight to the press.  he'd crucify us -- the sonofabitch!  get someone from our staff on his ass. tap his phones.  i want to know everyone he talks to.
so, what about those watergate clowns, john?  this fuck sirica's crazy. thirty-five-year sentences!  there were no weapons.  right?  no injuries. there was no success!  it's just ridiculous.
sirica's just trying to force one of them to testify.  but they're solid.
then what about this washington post crap?  woodwind and fernstein?
bernstein.
who the fuck are they?  bob, are you working on revoking the posts's television license?  good.
i end the longest war in american history and they keep harping on this chickenshit!  you know who's behind this, don't you -- it's teddy kennedy! he drowns a broad in his car and he can't run for president.
he got pretty burned at chappaquiddick.
my point exactly!  somebody had to die before his shit got in the paper! fucking kennedys get away with everything.  do you see me screwing everything that moves?  for christ's sake!  i did what the new york times editorial page said we should do!  i ended the war, i got salt i with the russians, i opened china!  so why are these cocksuckers turning on me?  because they don't like the way i look.  where i went to school.
because they're not americans.
right.  they don't trust!  they don't trust america!
why would they?!  who the hell's sulzberger anyway?  their parents are gold traders from eastern europe. they buy things.  they come to jew york city and they buy up things.  one of the things they buy is the new york times.  and you know what?  be proud because they'll never trust you, sir, because we speak for the average american.
you know why they're turning on me? they're not serious about power, that's why.  they're playing with power.  they're forgetting the national interest.  in the old days, people knew how to hold power, how to set limits.  they wouldn't have torn this country apart over a third-rate burglary. all they care about now are their egos, looking good at cocktail parties ...
... beating out the other papers, chasing girls ...
... worrying whether someone said something "nice" about them.  all short-term, frivolous bullshit; ben bradlee worrying about teddy kennedy liking him ...
housecleaning?  it would be ugly, henry, really ugly ...
but it must be done; your government is paralyzed.
all kinds of shit would come out. like the ellsberg thing.  you knew about that, henry, didn't you?
i ... i heard something ... it sounded idiotic.
idiotic?  yes, i suppose it was.
that doesn't matter now, henry.  the point is, you might lose some of your media-darling halo if the press starts sniffing around our dirty laundry.
i had nothing to do with that, sir, and i resent any implication ...
resent it all you want, henry, but you're in it with the rest of us. cambodia, ellsberg, the wiretaps you put in.  the president wants you to know you can't just click your heels and head back to harvard yard.  it's your ass too, henry, and it's in the wind twisting with everyone else's.
mr. nixon, it is possible for even a president to go too far.
yeah ...
you played it perfectly, sir -- cocksucker!  he's going to think twice before he leaks again.
he'll be looking in his toilet bowl every time he pulls the chain.
mr. president, hunt wants more money. another hundred-and-thirty thousand.
son of a bitch.
he says if he doesn't get it right away, he's going to blow us out of the water.  and he means it.  ever since his wife died in the plane crash, he's been over the edge.
pay him.  pay him what he wants.
we've got to turn the faucet off on this thing.  it's out of control ...  you might burden just me with this in the future.
it's helms -- it's got to be.
we could leverage helms.
how?
when i met with him, he said ...
... i was wondering what's such dynamite in this bay of pigs story?  ... although it was clearly effective, because all of a sudden it was no problem for helms to go to the fbi and try to put a lid on watergate.
what about the documents he promised?
he'll give us the documents.  but i think he should be offered the ambassadorship to iran.  then he'll go without a whimper.
i promised iran to townsend.
put townsend in belgium; it's available.
townsend gave us 300 grand.  belgium's not worth more than 100, 150 ...
what about england?
forget it.  ehrenberg's paid three times that much ...
helms wants iran or there might be problems.  all of his old cia buddies are over there making a fortune off the shah.
for god's sake, when does this end?!
executive clemency ...
what?
hunt has nothing to lose now.  pardon all of them.  nobody's going to investigate a crime for which the criminals have already been pardoned.
i like that.  that's a solution.
it'll never wash.  pardoning them means we're guilty.  the people, the press will go nuts.
and what am i supposed to do?  just sit here and watch them coming closer? eating their way to the center?  lyndon bugged!  so did kennedy!  fdr cut a deal with lucky luciano. christ, even ike had a mistress! what's so special about me?  what about lyndon?  he could make a couple of calls to the hill and shut this whole thing down.  did anyone talk to him?
i don't know, i don't know ... i just know we've made too many enemies.
sir, bob and i are gonna have to testify before earvin's committee.
no, you're not!  you're going to claim executive privilege and you're going to stonewall it all the way -- plead the fifth amendment.  i don't give a shit.  they can't force the president's people to testify.
executive privilege will make it look like we're covering up.
we are covering up!  for some petty, stupid shit.  there are things i can say -- when other people say them, they'd be lies. but when i say them nobody believes me anyway ...
mitchell?  mitchell's ... family.
either it goes to mitchell or it comes here.
who's gonna tell mitchell?
you do it.
why me?
'cause he hates you.  it's worse when you get it from someone you trust.
he's wrong, you know -- about kennedy, lbj, truman.
how so?
sure, they did stuff, but nothing like this, bob.  forget watergate, the break-ins, the enemies list.  you got an attempted firebombing at the brookings institution, planting mcgovern stuff on the guy that shot wallace, trying to slip lsd to jack anderson.
the "old man" plays politics harder than anybody else.
you think this is just about politics?
it's a code or something.
i figured that out.
i think he means the kennedy assassination.
yeah?
they went after castro.  in some crazy way it got turned on kennedy.  i don't think the "p" knows what happened, but he's afraid to find out.  it's got him shitting peach pits.
christ, we created frankenstein with those fucking cubans.
eight words back in '72 -- "i covered up.  i was wrong.  i'm sorry" -- and the american public would've forgiven him.  but we never opened our mouths, john.  we failed him.
dick nixon saying "i'm sorry"? that'll be the day.  the whole suit of armor'd fall off.
so you tell mitchell ...
i was sorry to hear about your wife.
yes ... i got the money.
the president would like to know if that was the last payment.
i'll bet he would.
is it?
in richard nixon's long history of underhanded dealings, he has never gotten better value for his money.  if i were to open my mouth, all the dominoes would fall.
how the hell do you have the temerity to blackmail the president of the united states?
that's not the question, john.  the question is: why is he paying?
to protect his people.
i'm one of his people.  the cubans are his people.  and we're going to jail for him.
howard, you'll serve no more than two years, then he'll pardon you.
john, sooner or later -- sooner, i think -- you are going to learn the lesson that has been learned by everyone who has ever gotten close to richard nixon.  that he's the darkness reaching out for the darkness.  and eventually, it's either you or him. look at the landscape of his life and you'll see a boneyard.
how much do you need?
uh, i would say these people are going to cost a million dollars over the next two years ...
we could get that.
uh huh ...
we could get a million dollars.  we could get it in cash.  i know where it could be gotten.
i'm still not confident we can ride through this.  some people are going to have to go to jail.  hunt's not the only problem.  haldeman let me use the $350,000 cash fund in his safe to make the payments.  ehrlichman had a role, a big role, in the ellsberg break-in. and i'm ... uh, i think it's time we begin to think in terms of cutting our losses.
you say, john, cut our losses and all the rest.  but suppose the thing blows and they indict bob and the others. jesus, you'd never recover from that, john.  it's better to fight it out instead, and not let people testify ...
sir, i still don't think, uh, we can contain it anymore.  there's a cancer on the presidency.  and it's growing. with every day that ...
jesus, everything is a crisis among the upper intellectual types, the softheads.  the average people don't think it's much of a crisis.  for christ's sake, it's not vietnam ... no one's dying here.  isn't it ridiculous?
i agree it's ridiculous but --
i mean, who the hell cares about this penny-ante shit.  goldwater put it right.  he said: "well for christ's sake, everybody bugs everybody else; we know that." ... it's the cover-up, not the deed that's really bad here.  if only mitchell could step up and take the brunt of it; give them the hors d'oeuvre and maybe they won't come back for the main course.  that's the tragedy of all this.  mitchell's going to get it in the neck anyway. it's time he assumed some responsibility.
he's right.  maybe it's time to go to the hang-out route, john.  a full and thorough investigation ... we've cooperated with the fbi, we'll cooperate with the senate.  what do we have to hide?
no, we have nothing to hide.
we have nothing to hide.  but the only flaw in the plan is that they're not going to believe the truth.  that is the incredible thing!
you want me to put it all in writing? over my signature?
nobody knows more about this thing than you do, john.
i'm not going to be the scapegoat for this.  haldeman and ehrlichman are in just as deep as me.
john, you don't want to start down that road.  i remember what whittaker chambers told me back in '48 -- and he was a man who suffered greatly -- he said, "on the road of the informer, it's always night."  this is beyond you or even me.  it's the country, john.  it's the presidency.
i understand that, sir.
good.  you know how i feel about loyalty.  i'm not going to let any of my people go to jail.  that i promise you.  the important thing is to keep this away from haldeman and ehrlichman. i'm trusting you to do that, john.  i have complete confidence in you.
more light, chief?
no ...
... there can be no whitewash at the white house ... two wrongs do not make a right.  i love america.  god bless america and god bless each and every one of you.
sir ... six bodies.
yes.
when?
tomorrow.
ron told me that bob haldeman's been calling.  but you won't talk to him ... if he's convicted, will you pardon him?
no.
what exactly did you want to discuss, pat?
you.  what' you're doing --
and what am i doing?
i wish i knew.  you're hiding.
hiding what?
whatever it is you've always been hiding.  you're letting it destroy you, dick.  you won't even ask for help.  you're destroying yourself, dick.
i'm the only left, dick.  if you don't talk to me, you ...
brezhnev's coming in three days.  i don't want to deal with them.  and him.  and you.
no, it isn't.  i won't interfere with you anymore.  i'm finished trying.
thank you.
thank you?  dick, sometimes i understand why they hate you.
it's the president's personal property!  i will never give up my tapes to a bunch of kennedy-loving harvard democrat cocksuckers!
this could trigger the impeachment. they'll go to the supreme court next.
let 'em try!  i appointed three of those bastards!  i'm not giving 'em my tapes!
can the president afford to ignore a subpoena?
who the fuck does cox think he is?  i never made a dime from public office!  i'm honest.  my dad died broke.  you know the sonofabitch went to law school with jack kennedy? ... the last gasp of the establishment! they got the hell kicked out of 'em in the election, so now they gotta squeal about watergate 'cause we were the first real threat to them in years. and by god, al, we would have changed it, changed it so they couldn't have changed it back in a hundred years, if only ...
congress is considering four articles of impeachment, sir.
for what?!
sir, the charges are serious -- first, abuse of power; second, obstruction of justice; third, failure to cooperate with congress; and last, bombing cambodia ...
they can't impeach me for bombing cambodia.  the president can bomb anybody he wants.
you know, fred, they sell tickets.
sir?
they sell tickets to an impeachment. like a fucking circus ... okay, so they impeach me.  then it's a question of mathematics.  how many votes do we have in the senate?
about a dozen.
a dozen?  i got half of 'em elected. i still got the south and goldwater and his boys.  i'll take my chances with the senate.
shit, plenty of people did their best writing in prison.  gandhi, lenin ...
that's right.
what i know about this country, i ... i could rip it apart.  if they want a public humiliation, that's what they'll get.  but i will never resign this office.  where the fuck am i?
what's in there?
pows.  and their families.
so i'm supposed to be ...
compassionate.  grateful.
proud?
sir?
of them.
yes, yes.
fire him.
who?
cox!  fire him.
but he works for the attorney general. only richardson can fire him.
sir, if i may ... echo my concern ...
then tell richardson to fire him.
richardson won't do that.  he'll resign.
the hell he will!  fire him, too.  if you have to go all the way down to the janitor at the justice department, fire the sonofabitch!  and ...
there's more ... there's more than just me.  you can't break, my boy, even when there's nothing left.  you can't admit, even to yourself, that it's gone, al.  do you think those pows in there did?
no, sir ...
now some people, we both know them, al, think you can go stand in the middle of the bullring and cry, "mea culpa, mea culpa," while the crowd is hissing and booing and spitting on you.  but a man doesn't cry.  i don't cry.  you don't cry ... you fight!
why didn't you?
you can't expect me to explain that to you.
what matters to me is whether you understand it.
you don't expect me to believe that for one minute, do you?  does it matter what's on them? really? ... murder, dick?  sex?  your secrets, your fantasies?  or just me and you and ...
don't be ridiculous!
i remember alger hiss.  i know how ugly you can be -- you're capable of anything.  but you see, it doesn't really matter, at the end of the day, what's on them.  because you have absolutely no remorse.  no concept of remorse.  you want the tapes to get out, you want them to see you at your worst ...
you're drunk!
and what would i find out that i haven't known for years.  what makes it so damn sad is that you couldn't confide in any of us. you had to make a record ... for the whole world.
they were for me.  they're mine.
no.  they're not yours.  they are you. you should burn them.
you're lawyers.  how can you let this shit go by!  look!  this?  nixon can't say this.
you did say it, sir.
never.  i never said that about jews!
we could check the tape again, sir.
you don't need to check the tape.  i know what i said.
and this?!  good lord, have you lost your mind?  nixon can't say this. "niggers"!
well, we could delete it.
or we could write "expletive deleted."
... and get rid of all these "goddamns" and "jesus christs"!
for christ's sake, it soils my mother's memory.  do you think i want the whole goddamn world to see my mother like this?  raising a dirty mouth!
but sir, we'll have to start over from the beginning.  we don't have the staff to ...
... an action that will at last, once and for all, show that what i knew and what i did with regard to the watergate break-in and cover-up were just as i have described them to you from the very beginning ...
he's completely lost touch with reality.
i had no knowledge of the cover-up until john dean told me about it on march twenty-first.  and i did not intend that payment to hunt or anyone else be made ...
can you imagine what this man would have been had he ever been loved?
... because people have got to know whether or not their president is a crook.  well, i am not a crook.  i have never made a dime from public service ...
oh god, i'm going to throw up.
"victory at sea," al ... henry.  the pacific theatre.  christ, you can almost feel the waves breaking over the decks.
i'm afraid we have another problem, mr. president.
june twenty-third, '72, sir.  the part that's underlined.  your instructions to haldeman regarding the cia and the fbi.
so?
your lawyers feel it's the ... "smoking gun."
it's totally out of context.  i was protecting the national security.  i never intended --
sir, the deadline is today.
can we get around this, al?
it's the supreme court, sir; you don't get around it.
if you resign, you can keep your tapes as a private citizen ... you can fight them for years.
and if i stay?
the army?
lincoln used it.
that was civil war.
how do you see this?
we can't survive this, sir.  they also have you instructing dean to make the payoff to hunt.
there is nothing in that statement the president can't explain.
sir, you talked about opening up the whole "bay of pigs" thing again.
that's right ...
three days before, on the june twentieth tape -- the one with the eighteen-minute gap --
i don't know anything about that.
... you mentioned the "bay of pigs" several times.  sooner or later they're going to want to know what that means.  they're going to want to know what was on that gap ...
it's gone.  no one will ever find out what's on it.
yes, you always had a good sense of timing, henry.  when to give and when to take. how do you think mao, brezhnev will react?  do you think this is how they'll remember me, henry, after all the great things you and i did together? as some kind of ... of ... crooks?
they will understand, sir.  to be undone by a third-rate burglary is a fate of biblical proportions.  history will treat you far more kindly than your contemporaries.
that depends who writes the history books.  i'm not a quitter ... but i'm not stupid either ... a trial would kill me -- that's what they want.  but they won't get it.
if they harass you, i, too, will resign.  and i will tell the world why.
don't be stupid.  the world needs you, henry; you always saw the big picture. you were my equal in many ways.  you're the only friend i've got, henry.
you have many friends ... and admirers ...
do you ever pray?  you know ... believe in a supreme being?
uh ... not really.  you mean on my knees?
yes.  my mother used to pray ... a lot.  it's been a long time since i really prayed.  let's pray, henry; let's pray a little.
... uh, i hope this doesn't embarrass you.
not at all.  this is not going to leak, is it?
don't be too proud; never be too proud to go on your knees before god.
... they smelled the blood on me this time, al.  i got soft.  you know ... that rusty, metallic smell ...
i know it well, sir.
it came over from vietnam, you know.
sir?
that smell.  i mean, everybody suffered so much, their sons killed. they need to sacrifice something, y'know, appease the gods of war -- mars, jupiter.  i am that blood, general.  i am that sacrifice, in the highest place of all ... all leaders must finally be sacrificed.
it'll be over soon.
no ... it's just going to start now ...  if i could just ... if i could just ... sleep.
there'll be time for that.
