you must not come here! how many times do i have to tell you?  if the film catches fire, runt that you are, you would go up in a burst of flame...whoosh! and turn into a piece of...
...and turn into a piece of charcoal!!
'cause sometimes you can not find the right place any more and so...well, actually...they stay here.  besides, there are more kisses than you can count.
so i can have these?
look, toto! before i kick your ass all the way to china and back, let's make a deal. these strips here are yours, i give them to you. however! one  you are not to stick your nose in here any more. two  I will keep them for you, because you can not take them home for god forbid and save our souls, if they catch fire, all hell will break loose! ok? oh!!! and now scram!
i do not remember him any morema, where is russia?
it takes years to get there. and years to come back...now go to bed, toto, it is late.
what are you doing here?
i bought a ticket. I have come to see the film.
I have been looking for you all day. did you buy the milk?
no...
then where is the money?
somebody stole it.
signora maria, do not do that. he is just a kid.  and why are you telling fibs?  we let him in free. he must have lost the money inside the movie theatre...  how much did you have?
fifty lire...
what you find tonight on the floor between the seats?
good morning, father. it is hard on the feet, huh?
yeah!...getting there is downhill and all the saints help you. but coming back! the saints stand there watching you, that is all! god's will be done.
alfredo, did you know my father?
of course i knew your father. he was tall, thin, pleasant, and had a moustache like mine. always smiling. he looked like clark gable.
'i choose my friends for their looks, and my enemies for their brains...'  you are too smart to be my friend. besides, as i always tell my kids, be careful to pick the right friends!
but you do not have any kids!!!
all right, all right! when I have got kids that is what I am telling them!
daddy's not coming back...he's dead.
it is not true! no! it is not true!!! I will show you he is coming back!
i told my mother you were not the one who gave me the films. that it was not your fault. but i thought you said the film could catch fire just to scare me. now that i know, i will not steal any more from you. that is all i wanted to say. I am going.
toto, come here.
now listen to what I have got to say. i took up this profession when i was ten years old. in those days there were not these modern machines. the films were silent. the projectors were run by hand, like this, with a crank. and you wound the crank all day long. it was really rough going! if you got tired and slowed down' boom! everything would go up in flames!
then why do not you want to teach it to me too? now that there is no more cranking, and it is easier?
because i do not want to, toto! this is not a job for you. it is like being a slave. you are always alone. you see the same film over and over again, because you have nothing else to do. and you start talking to greta garbo and tyrone power like a nut! you work on holidays, on christmas, on easter. only on good friday are you free. but if they had not put jesus christ on a cross...you'd work good fridays too!
then why do not you change jobs?
because I am an idiot. how many other guys in town know how to be a projectionist? none! only a jerk like me could do it. besides i was not lucky. when i was a kid there was the war! when i grew up, another war! now it is all different. times have changed. and you want to be a dope like me? huh? answer me!
no...
good for you, toto. good for you... I am only saying this for your own good...  cooped up in here you die of heat in the summer and of cold in the winter. you breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and earn practically nothing.
but do not you like anything about what you do?
with time...you get used to it. besides, when you hear from up here that there is a full house and that people are laughing, having fun... then you are happy too.  so I have been wasting my breath? you pretend to agree with me, but as soon as my back is turned, you do what you want!  get out of here! i do not want to lay eyes on you again! this is the last straw! your mother's right, you are crazy!!  but how did he do it? the little bastard! by watching, he is learned! it is incredible!  I am letting the box office know you are not to set foot even into the theatre! there are no more tickets for you! and I am also talking to father adelfio! you will not be an altar boy any more either!!! you little runt!
alfredo, go fuck yourself!!!
you understand which side the gelatin's on?
it tastes wonderful!
will they really find work in germany?
who knows?...it's like an adventure.  hope springs eternal...
peppinoooo! come back sooon!!  good thing germany's closer than russia.
it is got to be sent to another town. and if we do not the owner of that movie house gets pissed off.
too bad!
any room for me in this cinema paradiso?
come in, alfredo.
how is school?
ok. ok. but now that I have got a job, i'11 probably stop going...
do not do that...sooner or later you will be left empty-handed.
why? what do you mean?
toto, this is not for you. for the moment, the cinema paradiso needs you, and you need the cinema paradiso. but it will not last...some day you will have other things to do, more important things...  that is right, more important. i know it. now that I have lost my sight i see more. i see everything i did not see before...  and it is all thanks to you, who saved my life. and I will never forget it...  and do not put on that look. i have not gone off my head yet. you want proof?
yes. i want proof.
for example, at this moment the film's out of focus. go see.
don ciccio, I have got an idea...you remember that old abandoned movie house where they are supposed to build those low-rent houses?
so what is that got to do with it?
the projector's all rusty, but i could fix it in two or three days. give the place a good cleaning, put in some seats and bring in a projectionist and we will show catene in two houses.
what the fuck you talking about? you getting into the act too, toto? titanus has trouble giving me even one copy and i have to say thanks! if i ask for two, the least they will do is cut off my head and play ball with it!
what did i tell you? it does not catch fire!
progress! it always arrives too late!
my name's salvatore...and yours?
elena. my name's elena.
chaplin's modern times! right, toto?
that is right, modern times.
I have shown it so many times i know it by heart. the first time i showed it, in 1940, was the sunday my first wife died. they kept it hidden from me all day so they would not have to close down the movie house. i only found out that night, after the last show. those are things you never forget...  so, toto, how are these home movies going?
yes.
what is it, what is it? what is the picture?
it is people in the slaughter-house killing a calf. there is blood all over the floor, like a lake. and through this lake another calf passes by on its way to die.
now what can you see?
nothing, there is nothing. it is all out of focus.
is there a woman?...tell me the truth...  there is a woman.
yes, it is a girl i saw at the station.
what is she like? what is she like?...
eh! love...what a mystery!  i understand you, toto...the ones with blue eyes are the most beautiful. whatever you do, you can not make friends with them.  eh, there is nothing to be done about it! the heavier a man is, the deeper his footprints. and if he is in love, he suffers, because he knows he is up a one-way street. because love is a meaningless thing when a man gets it into his head to do what he wants...
what you say is wonderful! but sad...
they are not my words. john wayne said it in shepherd of the hills.
hi, elena!
hi. why are you running?
no particular reason...  nice day, huh?
yes, nice day.  ...i've got to go now. bye-bye.
bye-bye, elena.  ...what an idiot! what an idiot! 'nice day'! christ!!
i told you, the blue-eyed ones are the most difficult.
but why? there must be some way to make her understand!
do not think about it, toto. do not even try. with feelings, there is nothing to understand.
stop it! I have had enough of your sermons! you act as if you created the world!
heeey! totooooo! do not get pissed off with me now! come here! i do not know where the fuck i have to go.  and the next time be careful how you talk. not to take credit away from the lord, but if i had created the world, in all modesty, certain things would have come out better. but unfortunately such was not the case.
you see, it s like i say. you always have an answer for everything.
i want to make you happy, toto! I am going to tell you a story.  once upon a time a king gave a feast and there were all the most beautiful princesses of the realm. basta, one of the guards, saw the king's daughter: she was the loveliest of all! and he immediately fell in love with her. but what could a poor soldier do compared with a king's daughter?!...one day he managed to meet her and told her he could not live without her. the princess was so struck by the depth of his feeling that she said to the soldier  'if you will wait a hundred days and a hundred nights beneath my balcony, then in the end I will be yours.' christ, the soldier ran off there and waited! one day, two days, ten, twenty...every night she looked out of her window, but he never budged. come rain, wind, snow, never budged! the birds shat on him and the bees ate him alive! after ninety nights he was gaunt and pale and tears streamed from his eyes but he could not hold them back. he did not even have the strength to sleep any more. the princess kept watch...and on the ninety-ninth night, the soldier got up, picked up his chair and left!
no! you mean right at the end?  alfredo that is right, toto, right at the end? and do not ask me what it means. if you figure it out, let me know...
what is it, alfredo? right now, of all times!
father adelfio, i have a very serious doubt that is torturing my soul. and you have got to help me, because I have lost all peace of mind...
father, i have sinned...
we will talk about that later.
but...who...
sssssh, be quiet, pretend everything's normal. I am salvatore.
but alfredo, what you are saying is horrifying!
i know. but take the-miracle of the loaves and fishes, for example! i think about it a lot...how is it possible for...
i do not care. I will wait.
for what?
for you to fall in love with me too. listen carefully. every night, when i get off work, I will come and wait beneath your window. every night. when you change your mind, open your window. that is all. I will understand...
you understand now? you see it clearly?
oh yes, father. now everything's clear.
and the next time do not go around saying such heresy. you survived the fire at the movie house. but no one can save you from the fire of hell!
you have a great future as a driver. if they do not arrest you first!!
that is nothing to do with it, it is the car that is still being run in...
toto, are you pulling my leg or something? how is it possible to see this television without film?
just so, alfredo. there is not any. and if you buy a television set, you can watch it at home, without any fuss...
could be...but i do not like this business. it smells fishy to me.
elena!...but when...
i got back today. you can not imagine the excuses i had to make up to be here...
so what did they say?
the army says that, as a war orphan, i do not have to serve in the military, but nothing can be done. it is a bureaucratic error. i have to leave. day after tomorrow morning. they are sending me to rome. but they will discharge me ten days later. let's go...
no, salvatore. you would better go. it is my father.
good, this way we can finally talk. I will convince him this time.
he will not be convinced, salvatore. he has other plans for me.
who?
the son of one of his colleagues. do not act that way. we will talk about it later. wait for me thursday at the cinema paradiso. I will be coming with the five of the clock bus.
toto, this is no film for the common herd. one day'll be more than enough...so tonight, please set up tomorrow's film, so the projectionist who is coming will find it ready.
ok...
you were not expecting me?
no, alfredo, i was coming to help you...
you were expecting her? huh?  ...it's a nasty business waiting by yourself. in company it is better. no?...then I will leave.
but where did you go, toto?!!
I am here! take it easy! take it easy!  sit down, sit down...  did she come?
no, nobody came.
you 're thinner...you can tell you have not been treated well. .
they tell me you never go out, never talk to anybody. why?
toto, sooner or later there comes a time when talking or keeping quiet is the same thing. so it is better to shut up.  it is hot in here. toto, take me to the beach.
did you ever see her again?
no. and nobody knows where she is.
it was probably meant to be like this. each of us has a star to follow. so now what are you thinking of doing?
listen to this one...the commander says to the sergeant: 'you remember that windmill that used to be there?' 'yes, sir, i remember the mill's gone but the wind's still there!'  you remember the story of the soldier and the princess?
now i understand why the soldier went away just before the end. that is right, just one more night and the princess would have been his. but she, also, could not have kept her promise. and...that would have been terrible, he would have died from it. so instead, for ninety-nine nights at least he had lived with the illusion that she was there waiting for him...
do like the soldier, toto! go away! this land is cursed.  when you are here every day you feel like you are at the center of the universe, it seems like nothing ever changes. then you go away, one year, two...and when you come back, everything's different. the thread has broken. you do not find those you were looking for, your things no longer exist. is not that the case?...you've got to go away a long time, for many, many years, before coming back and finding your people again, the land where you were born...but not now, it is impossible. now you are blinder than i am.
who said that? gary cooper, james stewart, henry fonda? huh?
no, toto, nobody said it. i say it! life's not like you saw it in the movies. life...is harder.  get out! go back to rome. you 're young, the world is yours! and I am old...i do not want to hear you talk any more, i want to hear talk about you.
thanks for all you have done for me.
whatever you do, love it like you loved that projection booth of the paradiso when you were little...
lia'll be so glad to see you, you will see. and you will not recognize the kids any more, they are grown up by now.
they are always writing to me saying they want to come to rome!
see how pretty the house is? we did everything over.  if it had not been for you!  come, i have a surprise....  you must be tired. if you want to rest, there is time before the funeral.
no, mamma, it only takes an hour by air, you know.
you should not tell me that now. after all these years!  i put all your things in here. go in, go in...
how long's it been shut?
six years ago this may. no one came any more. you "know better than me, mr. di vita, the crisis, television, videos. by now the movie business is only a dream. the city's bought it now to make a new parking lot. next saturday they are tearing it down...a pity!...
but why do you call me 'mr. di vita'? it did not used to be that way...
well, it is hard to call an important person by his first name. but if it really matters to you, i'11 call you...  toto!...
no...it's nothing to do with you. it is just that i was scared of coming back. now, after all these years, i thought i was strong, that i had forgotten lots of things. instead, i find it is quite the opposite, as if i had never left. and yet, i look at lia and feel as if i did not know her, and you, mamma...i abandoned you, ran away like a thief, thought only of myself, and never gave you an explanation...
and i never asked for one! you have nothing to explain. i always thought that what you did was right, and that was that. with no beating around the bush...  only one thing made me suffer: bolting the door shut before going to bed at night...
you never used to do that!
you are still beautiful...
do not be silly...i'm old.  do not look at me like that, please.  why did you come back?
alfredo died. do you remember him?
of course i remember him. I am sorry. you were terribly fond of him.
i saw your daughter. she is beautiful! who knows how many salvatores must be running after her...
one or two. bur there are not all that many salvatores.  I have got a son, too...he's older. and you, do you have children?
no. and I am not married.  are you happy?
all things considered, yes. even if it was not what i dreamt of then...
my husband...you know him.
sure, sure! boccia...  what is he do?
politics. he is the district representative. we met at the university in pisa.
but I have never forgotten you, elena!
nor have i. even though you disappeared...  but what is the point of talking about it? we risk being pathetic and ridiculous.  you still live in rome?
it is the first time I have had to chance to tell the story. i never mentioned it to anybody.
alfredo, damn him! he cast his spell on you too!
i told him I would take his advice. but before i went away i left you that note...  i was on my way down the stairs...
oh, how i looked for you, elena! you will never know. i wrote, telephoned, nothing. nobody ever answered. but i dreamt of you for years! that is why i went away...and never came back here.  even as the years passed, in all the women i met, i was only looking for you. i had success it is true, but there was always something missing...  I would never have imagined that all this had to end because of the man who was like a father to me. a crazy lunatic!
he was not crazy. in the beginning i was upset. i think i really hated him. but then, with time, i understood what he said...and your silence too.
but i never saw that note!  i must have covered it with my hand, without realizing it, that is the only explanation...
what difference does it make to find an explanation? that is the way it went. but alfredo did not betray you, he was the only one who really understood you. salvatore, if you had chosen to be with me, you would have never made your films. and that would have been a pity! because they are wonderful, I have seen them all.  but you should not have gone and changed your name. you should have kept your own.
no, salvatore...there is no future. there is only the past. even meeting last night was nothing but a dream, a beautiful dream.  we never did it when we were kids, remember?  now that it is happened, i do not think there could have been a better ending.
I will never agree with you. never, elena.
