wait a minute! who elected you leader a this outfit?
well, pete, i just figured it should be the one with capacity for abstract thought. but if that am not the consensus view, hell, let's put her to a vote!
suits me! I am votin' for yours truly!
well I am votin' for yours truly too!
how did he know about the treasure?
do not know, delmar-though the blind are reputed to possess sensitivities compensatin' for their lack of sight, even to the point of developing para- normal psychic powers. now clearly, seein' the future would fall neatly into that ka-taggery. it is not so surprising, then, if an organism deprived of earthly vision-
'n I am delmar o'donnell.
how ya been, wash? been what, twelve, thirteen year'n?
pete's cousin turned us in for the bounty!
the hell you say! wash is kin!
what do we do now, everett?
fire! i hate fire!
now hold on, boys-aintcha ever heard of a negotiation? maybe we can talk this thing out!
yeah, let's negotiate 'em, everett.
you lousy yella-bellied low-down skunks-
now hold on, pete, we gotta speak with one voice here - careful with that fire now, boys!
two weeks! that do not do me no good!
nearest ford auto man's bristol.
hold on there - i do not want this pomade, i want dapper dan.
i do not carry dapper dan. i carry fop.
no! i do not want fop! goddamnit - i use dapper dan!
watch your language, young fellow, this is a public market. now, if you want dapper dan i can order it for you, have it in a couple of weeks.
well, am not this place a geographical oddity-two weeks from everywhere! forget it! just the dozen hairnets!
...but try getting a decent hair jelly.
gopher, everett?
and no transmission belt for two weeks neither.
huh?! they dam that river on the 21st.  today's the 17th!
do not i know it.
we got but four days to get to that treasure! after that, it will be at the bottom of a lake!
we am not going to make it walkin'.
gopher, everett?
how is this a plan? how're we going to get a car?
sell that. i figured it could only have painful associations for wash.
to washington bartholomew hogwallop. from his loving cora. ay-more fie- dellis.
it was in his bureau.
you got light fingers, everett. gopher?
you mis'able little sneak thief...
who was fixing to betray us!
you did not know that at the time!
so i borrowed it till i did know!
that do not make no sense!
pete, it is a fool looks for logic in the chambers of the human heart. what the hell's that singing?
well, I will be a sonofabitch. delmar's been saved!
pete, do not be ignorant-
well that is it boys, i been redeemed! the preacher warshed away all my sins and transgressions. it is the straight-and-narrow from here on out and heaven everlasting's my reward!
delmar what the hell are you talking about? - we got bigger fish to fry-
preacher said my sins are warshed away, including that piggly wiggly i knocked over in yazoo!
i thought you said you were innocent a those charges.
well i was lyin' - and I am proud to say that that sin's been warshed away too!  neither god nor man's got nothin' on me now! come on in, boys, the water's fine!
the preacher said it absolved us.
for him, not for the law! I am surprised at you, pete. hell, i gave you credit for more brains than delmar.
but there were witnesses, saw us redeemed!
that is not the issue, delmar. even if it did put you square with the lord, the state of mississippi is more hardnosed.
you should a joined us, everett. it could not a hurt none.
hell, at least it woulda washed away the stink of that pomade.
join you two ignorant fools in a ridiculous superstition? thank you anyway.  and i like the smell of my hair treatment - the pleasing odor is half the point.
baptism. you two are just dumber'n a bag of hammers. well, i guess you are my cross to bear-
pull over, everett - let's give that colored boy a lift.
this am not no laughin' matter, everett.
what did the devil give you for your soul, tommy?
who is the honcho around here?
i am. hur you?
well sir, my name is jordan rivers and these here are the soggy bottom boys outta cottonelia mississippi- songs of salvation to salve the soul. we hear you pay good money to sing into a can.
well that all depends. you boys do negro songs?
sir, we are negroes. all except our a-cump- uh, company-accompluh- uh, the fella that plays the gui-tar.
well, i do not record negro songs. I am lookin' for some ol'-timey material.  why, people just can not get enough of it since we started broadcastin' the 'pappy o'daniel flour hour', so thanks for stoppin' by, but-
sir, the soggy bottom boys been steeped in ol'-timey material. heck, you are silly with it, aintcha boys?
that is right!
that is right! we am not really negroes!
all except fer our a-cump-uh-nust!
hot damn, boy, i almost believe you did sell your soul to the devil!
boys, that was some mighty fine pickin' and singin'. you just sign these papers and I will give you ten dollars apiece.
okay sir, but mert and aloysius'll have to scratch xes - only four of us can write.
finest governor we have ever had in m'sippi.
in any state.
oh lord yes, any parish'r precinct; i was makin' the larger point.
we am not one-at-a-timin' here, we mass communicatin'!
oh, yes, assa parful new force.
why do not we bed down out here tonight?
yeah, it stinks in that old barn.
a million dollars.
million point two.
five... hunnert... thousand... each.
four hundred, delmar.
izzat right?
what are you going to do with your share of the treasure, pete?
an' all my meals for free...
what about you, delmar? what are you going to do with your share a that dough?
visit those foreclosin' sonofaguns down at the indianola savings and loan and slap that cash down on the barrelhead and buy back the family farm. hell, you am not no kind of man if you am not got land.
what about you, everett? what did you have in mind when you stoled it in the first place?
me? oh, i did not have no plan. still don't, really.
well that hardly sounds like you...
damn! we gotta skedaddle!
i left my pomade in that car! maybe i can creep up!
do not be a fool, everett, we got to r- u-n-o-f-f-t, but pronto!
where is tommy?
the hell it am not square one! am not no one going to pick up three filthy unshaved hitchhikers, and one of 'em a know-it-all that can not keep his trap shut!
pete, the personal rancor reflected in that remark i do not intend to dignify with comment, but i would like to address your general attitude of hopeless negativism. consider the lilies a the goddamn field, or-hell!- take a look at delmar here as your paradigm a hope.
yeah, look at me.
now you may call it an unreasoning optimism. you may call it obtuse. but the plain fact is we still have... close to... close to...
itta bena, now, uh, that would be...
is not it, uh...
...nah, that am not right... I am thinkin' of...
...i believe, unless I am very much mistaken - see, we have been away for several years, uh...
now wuddya suppose is eatin' george?
well ya know, delmar, they say that with a thrill-seekin' personality, what goes up must come down. top of the world one minute, haunted by megrims the next. yep, it is like our friend george is a alley cat and his own damn humors're swingin' him by the tail. but do not worry, delmar; he will be back on top again. i do not think we have heard the last of george nelson.
now what can i do you for, mister french?
how can i lay hold a the soggy bottom boys?
soggy bottom boys - i do not precisely recollect, uh -
they cut a record in here, few days ago, old-timey harmony thing with a guitar accump-accump-uh-
oh i remember 'em, colored fellas i believe, swell bunch a boys, sung into yon can and skedaddled.
well that record has just gone through the goddamn roof! they are playin' it as far away as mobile! the whole damn state's goin' ape!
it was a powerful air.
hot damn, we got to find those boys! sign 'em to a big fat contract! hell's bells, mr. lunn, if we do not the goddamn competition will!
oh mercy, yes. you gotta beat that competition.
whuhh...
oh sweet lord, everett, looka this!
what on earth is goin' on here! what is got into you, delmar!
caintcha see it everett! them sigh- reens did this to pete! they loved him up an' turned him into a horney- toad!
...i'm not sure that is pete.
course it is pete! look at 'im!
you can not display a toad in a fine restaurant like this! why, the good folks here'd go right off their feed!
i just do not think it is right, keepin' him under wraps like we's ashamed of him.
well if that is pete i am ashamed of him.  the way i see it he got what he deserved - fornicating with some whore a babylon.  these things-
i flatter myself that such is the case; in my line of work it is plumb necessary. the one thing you do not want is air in the conversation.
once again we find ourselves in agreement.  what kind of work do you do, big dan?
sales, mr. mcgill, sales! and what do i sell? the truth! ever' blessed word of it, from genesee on down to revelations! that is right, the word of god, which let me add there is damn good money in during these days of woe and want! folks're lookin' for answers and big dan teague sells the only book that is got 'em! what do you do - you and your tongue-tied friend?
uh, we uh-
we are adventurers, sir, currently pursuin' a certain opportunity but open to others as well.
languishing! goddamn campaign is languishing! we need a shot inna arm!  hear me, boys? inna goddamn arm!  election held tomorra, that sonofabitch stokes would win it in a walk!
well he is the reform candidate, daddy.
...yeah?
well people like that reform. maybe we should get us some.
I am just makin' a point, you stupid sonofabitch!
okay, pappy.
thankee boys for throwin' in that fricasee. I am a man a large appetite and even with lunch under my belt i was feeling a mite peckish.
our pleasure, big dan.
and thank you as well for that conversational hiatus; i generally refrain from speech while engaged in gustation. there are those who attempt both at the same time but i find it course and vulgar. now where were we?
i like to think that I am a pretty astute observer of the human scene.
no doubt, brother - i figured as much back there in the restaurant. that is why i invited you out here for this advanced tutorial.
pete have a brother?
not that I am aware.
daddy!
he am not our daddy!
mama said you was hit by a train!
blooey!
that is a maiden name.
you got a maiden name, daddy?
it is bona fide!
he is a suitor!
she is at the five and dime.
buyin' nipples!
that am not your daddy, alvinelle. your daddy was hit by a train.
now penny, stop that!
no - you stop it! vernon here's got a job. vernon's got prospects. he is bona fide! what are you?
I will tell you what i am - I am the paterfamilias! you can not marry him!
i can and i am and i will - tomorrow! i got to think about the little wharvey gals! they look to me for answers! vernon can s'port 'em and buy 'em lessons on the clarinet! the only good thing you ever did for the gals was get his by that train!
...why you... lyin,... unconstant... succubus!
deceitful! two-faced! she-woman! never trust a female, delmar! remember that one simple precept and your time with me will not have been ill spent!
okay, everett.
hit by a train! truth means nothin' to woman, delmar. triumph a the subjective!  you ever been with a woman?
well, uh, i - i got to get the family farm back before i can start thinkin' about that.
well that is right! if then! believe me, delmar, woman is the most fiendish instrument of torture ever devised to bedevil the days a man!
everett, i never figured you for a paterfamilias.
oh-ho-ho yes, I have spread my seed. and you see what it, uh... what it is earned me... now what in the...
...pete?
do not seek the treasure!
i signed that bill! i signed a dozen a those aggi-culture bills! everyone knows I am a friend a the fahmuh! what do i got to do, start diddlin' livestock?!
we cain't do that, daddy, we might offend our constichency.
we am not got a constichency! stokes got a constichency!
them straw polls is ugly.
stokes is pullin' ah pants down.
gonna pluck us off the tit.
pappy going to be sittin' there pants down and stokes at the table soppin' up the gravy.
latch right on to that tit.
wipin' little circles with his bread.
suckin' away.
well, it is a well-run campaign, midget'n broom'n whatnot.
devil his due.
helluva awgazation.
y'ignorant slope-shouldered sack a guts!  why we would look like a buncha satchel-ass johnnie-come-latelies braggin' on our own midget! do not matter how stumpy! and that is the goddamn problem right there - people think this stokes got fresh ideas, he is oh coorant and we the past.
problem a p'seption.
ass right.
reason why he is pullin' ah pants down.
gonna paddle ah little bee-hind.
am not going to paddle it; he is going to kick it real hard.
no, i believe he is a-gonna paddle it.
well now, i do not believe assa property scription.
well, that is how i characterize it.
well, i believe it is mawva kickin' sichation.
pullin' ah pants down...
wipin' little circles with his bread...
it was a moment a weakness!
quitcha babblin' pete - time to skedaddle.
they lured me out for a bathe, then they dunked me'n trussed me up like a hog and turned me in for the bounty.
i shoulda guessed it - typical womanly behavior. just lucky we left before they came for us.
we did not abandon you, pete, we just thought you was a toad.
no, they never did turn me into a toad.
well that was our mistake then. and then we was beat up by a bible salesman and banished from woolworth's. i do not know if it is the one branch or all of 'em.
well i - i am not had it easy either, boys.  uh, frankly, i - well i spilled my guts about the treasure.
huh?!
awful sorry i betrayed you fellas; must be my hogwallop blood.
it is awful white of ya to take it like that, everett. i feel wretched, spoilin' yer play for a million dollars'n point two. it is been eatin' at my guts.
aw, that is all right.
pete, uh, i do not want ya to beat yourself up about this thing...
i cain't help it, but that is a wonderful thing to say!
well, but pete...
fact of the matter - there never was!
but... but...
so - where is all the money from your armored-car job?
i never knocked over any armored- car. i was sent up for practicing law without a license.
but...
damnit, i just hadda bust out! my wife wrote me she was gettin' married! i got to stop it!
...no treasure... i had two weeks left on my sentence...
i could not wait two weeks! she is gettin' married tomorra!
...with my added time for the escape, i do not get out now 'til 1987... I will be eighty-four years old.
huh. i guess they will tack on fifty years for me too.
boys, we was chained together. i hadda tell ya somethin'. bustin' out alone was not a option!
pete... i do apologize.
eighty-four years old! I will be gummin' pab-you-lum!
it is tommy! they got tommy!
oh my god!
I am sayin' we har this man away.
assa good idea, pappy.
helluva idea.
cain't beat 'em, join 'em.
have him join us, run our campaign 'stead a that pencil-neck's.
enticements a power, wealth, settera.
no one says no to pappy o'daniel.
oh gracious no. not with his blandishments.
powas p'suasion.
what is his name again?
campaign manager? waldrip.
vernon waldrip.
vernon t. waldrip.
you do not know where his goddamn folks from; you speakin' outcha asshole.
well now pappy i would not put it that strong...
well, it is a invitation-only affair; we will have to sneak in through the service entrance-
wait a minute - who elected you leader a this outfit? since we been followin' your lead we got nothin' but trouble! i gotten this close to bein' strung up, n'consumed in a fire, 'n whipped no end, 'n sunstroked, 'n soggied -
'n turned into a frog -
he was never turned into a frog!
scuse me... scuse me... we are the next act...
everett, my beard itches.
this is crazy. no one's ever going to believe we are a real band.
no, this is going to work! i just got to get close enough to talk to her. takin' off with us is got a lot more future in it than marrying a guy named waldrip.  I am goddamn bona fide. I have got the answers!
pappy o'daniel be laughing' then.
not out the other side his face, though.
oh no, no, just the reg'la side -
holy-moly. these boys're a hit!
but pappy, they's inter-grated.
well i guess folks do not mind they's integrated.
what sat mean exactly, everett?
well, you'n me'n pete'n tommy are going to be the power behind the throne so to speak.
oh, okay.
i guess vernon t. waldrip is going to be goin' on relief. maybe I will be able to throw a little patronage his way, get the man a job diggin' ditches or rounding up stray dogs.
is the marriage off then, miz wharvey?
mcgill. no, the marriage'll take place as planned.
just a little change of cast. me and the little lady are going to pick up the pieces'n retie the knot, mixaphorically speakin'. you boys're invited, of course. hell, you are best men! already got the rings.
where is your ring, honey?
i am not worn it since our divorce came through. it must still be in the rolltop in the old cabin. never thought I would need it; vernon bought one encrusted with jewels.
hell, now's the time to buy it off him cheap.
we am not gettin' married with his ring!  you said you would changed!
aw, honey, our ring is just a old pewter thing -
am not going to be no weddin'.
it is just a symbol, honey -
no weddin'.
we will go fetch it with ya, everett.
honey, it is just - shutup, delmar - it is just -
end of the road, boys. it is had its twists and turns -
waitaminute -
- but now it deposits you here.
waitaminute -
you have eluded fate - and eluded me - for the last time. tie their hands, boys.
you can not do this -
did not know you would be bringin' a friend.  well, he will have to wait his turn -
hang on there -
- and share one of your graves.
you can not do this - we just been pardoned!  by the governer himself!
it am not the law!
the law. well the law is a human institution.
I am sorry we got you into this, tommy.
good lord, what do we do?
a miracle! it was a miracle!
aw, do not be ignorant, delmar. i told you they was going to flood this valley.
that am not it!
we prayed to god and he pitied us!
it just never fails; once again you two hayseeds are showin' how much you want for innalect. there is a perfectly scientific explanation for what just happened -
that am not the tune you were singin' back there at the gallows!
well any human being will cast about in a moment of stress. no, the fact is, they are flooding this valley so they can hydro-electric up the whole durned state...
all's well that ends well, as the poet says.
that is right, honey.
but i do not mind telling you, I am awful pleased my adventuring days is at an end...
...time for this old boy to enjoy some repose.
that is good, honey.
and you were right about that ring. any other weddin' band would not do. but this-here was foreordained, honey; fate was a-smilin' on me, and ya have to have confidence -
that is not my ring.
- in the gods - huh?
that is not my ring.
not your...
that is one of aunt hurlene's.
you said it was in the rolltop desk!
i said i thought it was in the rolltop desk.
you said -
or, it might a been under the mattress.
you -
or in my chiffonier. i do not know.
well, I am sorry honey -
well, we need that ring.
well now honey, that ring is at the bottom of a pretty durned big lake.
uh-huh.
a 9,000-hectacre lake, honey.
i do not care if it is ninety thousand.
yes, but honey -
that was not my doing...
i counted to three, honey.
well sure, honey, but...
