terry?  what do you want?
hey look-
yeah? must be danny-boy. i lost him in the last race.
he followed my birds into their coop. here, you want him?
well i got to watch myself these days. know what i mean?
I will bring him up to your loft.
I will see you on the roof.
tippi-tippi-tim, tippi-tim, tippi-tippi-tan, tippi-tan...  gotta dime for a crippled-up docker?
go on, beat it!
a dime, terry, a dime for a cup of coffee?
do not give me that coffee, you rummy. now blow!
thanks for nothing, you bum.
you said they was only going to talk to him.
that was the idea.
i thought they would talk to him. try to get him to dummy up.
maybe he gave them an argument.
i figured the worst they would do is work him over a little.
he probably gave 'em an argument.
come on, kid. I will buy you a drink.
in a minute.
time and faith... . my brother's dead and you stand there talking drivel about time and faith.
why edie, i
how could anyone do this to joey. the best in the neighborhood... . everybody said it, not only me. who would want to harm joey? tell me who?  -- who?
i wish i knew, edie, but
do not turn away! look at it! you are in this too do not you see, do not you see? you are in this too, father.
edie, i do what i can. I am in the church when you need me.
"in the church when you need me." was there ever a saint who hid in the church?
h'ya, slugger, how they hangin'?
so-so, johnny.
do not hit me, now, do not hit me!
hey, skins  --get away with that sheet metal all right?
easy, that new checker faked the receipt. here it is, boss.
stow the receipt. I will take the cash.
forty-five bills.
hey, terry, front and center.
count this.
aw, you know i do not like to count, johnny.
it is good for you. develops your mind.
shut up. i like the kid.  remember the night he took farella at st. nick's, charley. we won a bundle. real tough. a big try.
not a dent.  perfect
my favorite little cousin.
thirty-six sev aah i lost the count.
ok skip it, einstein. how come you never got no education like the rest of us?
what gives with our boy tonight, charley? he am not himself.
the joey doyle thing. you know how he is. things like that he exaggerates them. too much marquis of queensbury.  it softens 'em up.
listen kid, I am a soft tough too. ask any rummy  on the dock if I am not good for a fin any time they put the arm on me.  but my old lady raised us ten kids on a stinkin' watchman's pension. when i was sixteen i had to beg for work in the hold. i did not work my way up out of there for nuthin'.
i know, johnny, i know... .
takin' over this local, you know it took a little doin'. some pretty tough fellas were in the way. they left me this  to remember them by.
when he got up and chased them they thought it was a dead man coming after them.
i know what is eatin' you, kid. but i got two thousand dues-payin' members in my local that is seventy-two thousand a year legitimate and when each one of 'em puts in a couple of bucks a day to make sure they work steady well, you figure it out. and that is just for openers. we got the fattest piers in the fattest harbor in the world. everything that moves in and out we take our cut.
why should not we? if we c'n get it we are entitled to it.
we am not robbin' pennies from beggars. we cuttin' ourselves in for five-six million a year just on our half a dozen piers  a drop in the bucket compared to the traffic in the harbor.  but a mighty sweet little drop, eh, charley?
it will do.
so look, kid, you do not think we c'n afford to be boxed out of a deal like this a deal i sweated and bled for on account of one lousy little cheese-eater, that doyle bum, who thought he c'd go squealin' to the crime commission? do you?
do you?
well, no, johnny, i just thought i should have been told if
i make it twentysix twenty-three. you are fifty short, skins.
gimme.
i i musta counted wrong, boss, i
gimme.
you come from green point? go back to green point. you do not work here no more.  here, kid, here's half a bill. go get your load on.
naw, thanks, johnny, i do not want it, i
go on a little present from your uncle johnny.  and mac, tomorra mornin' when you shape the men put terry in the loft. number one. every day.  nice easy work. check in and goof off on the coffee bags. o.k.?
thanks, johnny... .
you got a real friend here, kid. do not forget it.
why should he forget it?
i was going to feed 'em, terry.
's all right, kid. i took care of 'em myself this morning.
boy, you must have been up early.
yeah, yeah, i was awake anyway so i figured  they got it made. eat all they want fly around like crazy sleep side by side and raise gobs of squabs.
you are doin' lovely, terry, very lovely.
o.k., o.k., that is enough.
what is the matter wit' you, success gone to ya head?
i told you lay off.
my am not we touchy this morning?
condolences. how you fixed for cabbage this mornin'?
oh me and my chum are just rolling in the stuff. we only work down here for a hobby, j.p.
some chance at ten percent a week! and if he do not borrow, he do not work.
you will work.
i ought to belt you one, j.p.
raise a hand to me and... .
... .and you will tell johnny friendly.
you would be off the pier for good.
you are terry malloy, are not you?
what about it?
i thought i recognized you. saw you fight in st. nick's a couple of years ago.
o.k. o.k. without the bird seed. what do you want?
our identification.
waterfront crime commission ?  what is that?
we are getting ready to hold public hearings on waterfront crime and underworld infiltration of longshore unions.
i do not know nothing.
never will be much too soon.
take it easy.
how do you like them jokers? taking me for a pigeon.
gimme the names, I will write 'em down in me little book.
a banana boat. it would be bananas.  one of these days me ship's comin' in from ireland,  god love 'er, loaded to the gunnels with sweet irish whiskey!
nolan, me lad, ye're dreamin' again.
father barry.
hello, edie.
I am afraid i spoke out of turn last night.
you think I am just a gravy-train rider in a turned-around collar?
oh, i thought you was gonna go to work with all them muscles.
give it to me my pop's job
what makes him so special?
none of your business.
things 're lookin' up on the docks, huh, jackie?
did not you recognize him, dopey. that is old man doyle.
doyle.  joey doyle's... .?  ... .you're his... .
working hard?
it is a living.
you do not mind working once in a while to justify this lofty position?
i just fnished work. i counted the bags.
we got a little extra detail for you. the local priest and this doyle girl are getting up a meeting in the church. we would like a rundown on it. you know, names and numbers of all the players. you are nominated.
why me, charley? I would feel funny going in there.
johnny does you favors, kid. you got to do a little one for him once in a while.
but going in that church, I would be stooling for you, charley. you make a pigeon out of me.
let me explain you something, kid. stooling is when you rat on your friends, on the guys you are with.  when johnny needs a favor, do not try to figure it out, just do it. now go ahead, join the congregation.
who asked him here?
have a seat. I am trying to find out just what happened to joey doyle. maybe you can help.
the brother of charley the gent. they will help us get to the bottom of the river.
keep charley out of this.
you do not think he would be helpful?
go ask him, why do not you ? ask him yourself.
maybe i will one of these days.
one of these days.
now listen, if you know who the pistols are, if you see them on the dock every day, are you going to keep still until they cut you down one by one?  are you? are you? how about you, nolan?
father, one thing you got to understand. on the dock we have always been d 'n d.
d 'n d?
deef 'n dumb. somethin' c'n happen right in front of our noses and we do not see nothin'. you know what i mean. no matter how much we hate the torpedoes we do not rat.
you all right, nolan?
yeah, considerin' they was usin' my head for a baseball!
nice fellows.
those blood suckers. how I would love to fix those babies but
but you still hold out for silence?
you still call it ratting?
are you on the level, father?
what do you think?
if i stick my neck out, and they chopped it off, would that be the end of it? or are you ready to go all the way?
I will go down the line, kayo, believe me.
baseball bats that is just for openers. they will put the muscle on you, turned-around collar or no turned-around collar.
and i still say you stand up and I will stand up with you.
down to the wire?
so help me god!
well, i had my fun, I have drunk my fill and i tickled some good-lookin' fillies I am on borried time.
i think we are o.k.
thanks.  steel pipes and baseball bats.
they play pretty rough.
which side are you with?
I am with terry.
I will get home all right now.
i better see you get there.
a dime. one thin dime for a cup of coffee.
coffee, that is a laugh. his belly is used to nothing but rotgut whiskey.
one little dime you do not need.  i know you you are edie doyle. your brother's a saint  only one ever tried to get me my compensation.
yeah, yeah here's half a buck, go have yourself a ball.
i can not believe it a small fortune.   you can not buy me you are still a bum!  'bye, edie. lord have mercy on joey.
look who says bum!
everybody loved joey. from the little kids to the old rummies.  did you know him very well?
everybody knew him. he got around.
what did that man mean when he said you were... .?
aah, he is a bottlebaby, he talks to himself, the joke of the neighborhood.
i better get home.
you know how the sisters are.
you training to be a nun or something?
it is a regular college. it is just run by the nuns. the sisters of st. anne.
and you spend all your time just learning stuff, huh?
i want to be a teacher.
a teacher! dong!!!  you know i admire brains. take my brother charley. he is very brainy. very.
it is not brains. it is how you use them.
yeah. yeah. i get your thought. you know i seen you lots of times before. parochial school on pulaski street? seven, eight years ago? your hair come down in
in braids? that is right.
looked like two pieces of rope. and your teeth were
i know. i thought I would never get those braces off.
man, you were a mess!
i can get home all right from here
the thought I am tryin' to get over is you grew up beauteeful. remember me?
the moment i saw you.
some people got faces that stick in your mind.
i remember you were in trouble all the time.
now you got me! it is a wonder i was not punchy by the time i was twelve. the rulers those sisters used to whack me with!  they thought they could beat an education into mei foxed 'em.
maybe they just did not know how to handle you.
how would you have done it?
with a little more patience and kindness. that is what makes people mean and difficult. nobody cares enough about them.
what is that?
pardon me while i reach for my beads.
what?
what-what? where you been the last four five years? outer space?
when mother died pop sent me out to school in the country. he was afraid with no one home I would get into bad company.
well he played it smart. too many good-for-nothin's around here. all they got on their mind's a little beer, a little pool, a little  i better get you home.
boy, they sure fly nice, do not they?
do you like pigeons?
that is my own flock up there, getting their evening workout. i won plenty of races with 'em.  listen, you want to see them? come up on the roof with me and I will show 'em to you.
I would better go in.
i only live up there and across the roof.
thanks anyway.
listen, edie, am i going to see you again?
what for?
i do not know.
i really do not know.
you got some nerve.
what do you mean?
you know what i mean. leave her alone.
i was only talkin' to her.
she is off limits for bums like you. leave her alone.
i can look at her, can not i? it is a free country.
not that free.
you are all packed.  and here's your bus ticket. you are on your way back to st. anne's.
pop, I am not ready to go back yet.
edie, for years we pushed quarters into a cookie jar, to keep you up there with the sisters, and to keep you from things like i just seen out the window. my own daughter arm-in-arm with terry malloy. you know who terry malloy is?
who is he, pop?
who is he! edie, you are so softhearted and soft-headed you would not recognize the devil if he had you by the throat. you know who this terry malloy is? the kid brother of charlie the gent, johnny friendly's right hand, a butcher in a camel hair coat.
are you trying to tell me terry is too?
I am not trying to tell you he is little lord fauntleroy.
he tries to act tough, but there is a look in his eyes that... .
a look in his eyes! hold your hats, brother, here we go again. you think he is one of those cases you are always draggin' in and feelin' sorry for. like the litter of kittens you hadthe only one she wants to keep has six toes and it is cockeyed to boot. look at him. the bum! and the crush you had on that little abyssinian... .
he was not abyssinian, pop, assyrian... .
six-toed cats. assyrians. abyssinians. it is the same difference. well do not think this terry malloy is any six-toed cockeyed assyrian. he is a bum. charley and johnny friendly owned him when he was a fighter and when they ring the bell he still goes into action.
he wanted to see me again.
you think we kept you out in tarrytown just to have you go walkin' with a corner saloon hoodlum like terry malloy? now get back to tarrytown, before i put a strap to you.
and learn about charity and justice and all the other things people would rather talk about than practice? pop goes up to her and holds out his two arms, his right one closer to edie; he trembles with emotion.
see this arm? it is two inches longer 'n the other one. that is years of workin' and sweatin', liftin' and swingin' a hook. and every time i heisted a box or a coffee bag i says to myselfthis is for edie, so she can be a teacher or somethin' decent. i promised your mother. you better not let her down.
pop, do not think I am not feeling grateful for all you have done to get me an education and shelter me from this.  but now my eyes are open. i see things i know are so wrong how can i go back and keep my mind on things that are only in books and that people are not living? I am staying, pop. and I am going to keep on trying to find out who is guilty for joey. I would walk home with a dozen terry malloys if i thought they could help me. i tell you I am staying, pop. pop starts to pull his belt out of his trousers.
you are like
pop!
i wonder how long she is goin' to hang around, huh, terry?
be sure they got enough water.
i changed my mind. i feel real mean tonight.
good. so do i.
the golden warriors.
i started them golden warriors. i was their first supreme commander.
here they come! the champion flock of the neighborhood.
you do not mind yourself at all, do you.  joey used to race pigeons.
he had a few birds.  i got up and fed 'em this morning.
that was nice of you.
i like pigeons. you send a bird five hundred miles away he will not stop for food or water until he is back in his own coop.
i would not have thought you would be so interested in pigeons.
i go for this stuff. you know this city's full of hawks? there must be twenty thousand of 'em. they perch on top of the big hotels and swoop down on the pigeons in the park.
the things that go on.
how do you like that one?
oh she is a beauty.
she is a he. his name is swifty.
my lead bird. he is always on that top perch.
if another fella tries to take that perch away from him, he lets him have it.
even pigeons are not peaceful.
one thing about them though, they are faithful. they get married just like people.
better.
yeah, once they are mated they stay together all their lives until one of 'em dies.
listen, you like beer?
i do not know.
want to go out and have one with me?
in a saloon?
come on, i know a quiet one, with a special entrance for ladies... .
likewise. and draw two for chasers.  now you are beginning to live.
i am?
wham... .
how do you like it?
it is quite  nice.
how about another one?
no thanks... .
hit me again, mac.
were you really a prize fighter?
i went pretty good for a while, did not i, al? but i did not stay in shape and  i had to take a few dives.
a dive? you mean, into the water?
naw, in the ring, a dive is-
now what are you doing?
describing you. a square from out there. i mean you are nowhere.  miss four corners.
what made you want to be a fighter?
i had to scrap all my life. figured i might as well get paid for it. when i was a kid my old man got killednever mind how. charley and i was put in a placethey called it a children's home. some home! i run away and peddled papers, fought in club smokers and  but what am i runnin' off at the mouth for? what do you care?
should not we care about everybody?
what a fruitcake you are!
is not everybody part of everybody else?
gee, thoughts! alla time thoughts!  you really believe that drool?
terry!
want to hear my philosophy? do it to him before he does it to you.
our lord said just the opposite.
I am not lookin' to get crucified. I am lookin' to stay in one piece.
i never met such a person. not a spark of romance or sentiment or or human kindness in your whole body.
what do they do for you, except get in your way?
and when things get in your way or people you just knock them aside get rid of them is that your idea?
listen get this straight do not look at me when you say them things. it was not my fault what happened to your brother. fixing joey was not my idea... .
why, terry, who said it was?
well, nobody, i guess. but that father barry, i did not like the way he kept lookin' at me.
he was looking at everybody the same way. asking the same question.
yeah, yeah... .  this father barry, what is his racket?
his racket?
you have been off in daisyland, honey. everybody's got a racket.
but a priest...?
you do not believe in anything, do you?
edie, down here it is every man for himself. it is keepin' alive! it is standin' in with the right people so you can keep a little loose change jinglin' in your pocket.
and if you don't?
if you do not  keep your neck in and your nose clean and you will never have no trouble down here.
but that is living like an animal
like joey? are you afraid to mention his name?
why keep harpin' on it?  come on, drink up. you got to get a little fun out of life. what is the matter with you?  I will play you some music.
i I would like to, edie, but  there is nothin' i can do. edie feels subdued, ashamed at breaking down. she rises, and in a low voice says
all right, all right.. i should not 've asked you.
you have not finished your beer.
i do not want it. but why do not you stay and finish your drink.
i got my whole life to drink.
you are not sore at me?
what for?
for not being any help?
what are you crying for?
i thought i felt mean tonight. but I am not I am just all mixed up... .
i i never knew a girl like you, edie. i always knew the kind you just grab 'em and i never knew a girl like you, edie.
it is fun dancing with your eyes closed. I am floating. I am floating... .
right now?
he just got a call from "mr. upstairs." something is gone wrong. he is plenty hot.
I am going to take her home first.
I would get over there, terry. I will take the little lady home.
I will come over when I am ready.
you know johnny when he gets mad.
edie, listen, stay out of this mess. quit tryin' to ask things about joey. it am not safe for you.
why worry about me? you are the one who says only look out for yourself.
okay, get in hot water. but do not come hollerin' to me when you get burned.
why should i come hollering to you at all?
because... because...  listen edie, do not get sore now but i think we are getting in love with each other.
i can not let myself fall in love with you.
that goes double for me.
you are being served with a subpoena, mr. malloy.
what?
be at the state house, courtroom nine, at ten of the clock tomorrow.
i told you i do not know nothin' and i am not saying nothin'.
you can bring a lawyer if you wish. and you are privileged under the constitution to protect yourself against questions that might implicate you in any crimes.
you know what you are askin'? you are askin'
what are you going to do?
i will not eat cheese for no cops, that is for sure.
it was johnny friendly who killed joey, was not it?
edie, your old man's right, go back to that school out in daisyland. you are driving yourself nuts you are driving me nuts stop worrying about the truth worry about yourself.
look out for number one. always number one.  i should have known you would not tell me. pop said johnny friendly used to own you. i think he still owns you.  no wonder everybody calls you a bum.
do not say that, edie, don't...
it is true.
I am tryin' to keep you from being hurt what more do you want?
much more, terry. much, much more!
i i was just on my way up, johnny.
by way of chicago?
it must have been once too often. i think your brains come apart. what you got up there, chinese bells?
aw, johnny... .
i thought you were gonna keep an eye on that church meeting.
nothing happened, johnny.
nothing happened, he says. some operator you got yourself there, charley. one more like him and we will all be wearing striped pajamas.
it was a big nothing! the father did all the talking.
oh, he did. half an hour later a certain timothy j. nolan went into secret session with the commission and he did all the talking.
you mean kayo nolan, the old timer? he does not know much.
he don't, huh?  well, he knows thirty-nine pages worth of our operation.
how did you get that.
i got it. hot off the press.
the complete works of timothy j. nolan.
nolan? i knew he had guts but
guts! a crummy pigeon who is looking to get his neck wrung!  you should have  you should have known better than to trust this punched out brother of yours. he was all right hanging around for laughs. but this is business. i do not like goofoffs messing in our business.
now just a minute, i
you see, kayo, the good lord watches over us after all.
when we knock off let's have a bit of a party. we will drink to god and ireland, its whiskey and its women, to joey and edie  and death to tyrants everywhere... .!
you think one bottle's enough for all them toasts?
patrick, me lad, I am ahead of you.
i was afraid one bottle might get lonely by itself.  now you see the advantage of a little man in a big coat.
definitely! nolan, my boy, you are a walkin' distillery.
i wonder how many hail marys the father'll make me say at confession.  it will be worth it! the pallet is loaded now. terry turns and approaches nolan.
listen nolan
what are you down here for to see we do not make off with any of mister friendly's precious cargo?
nolan... .
and do not be walking off with any of that. you know how the boss feels about individual pilferage.
talk louder. i can not hear you.
if you kept your ears wide open instead of your mouth
if i talk too loud it is the fault of the nuns.
and what in blazes have the nuns got to do with it?
when i was a mere spit of a lad on ferry street in dublin the nuns used to say to me, "nolan, do not be swallowin' ye words like fishballs. when you got something to say  talk with your mouth wide open," so if I am loud do not blame me it is the fault of the nuns!
edie!
i i brought this for you, terry. it was joey's.  yours is coming out at the elbows.
i do not rate it.
go ahead, wear it.
pigeons... .
there is a hawk around. they are scared tonight.
edie i i never said this to a girl before, i never knew a girl worth trying to say it for, but you you're... .
i know... i know... .
what is the matter? I have got something that is chokin' me. I have got to get it out.
someone else c'n take your confession.
but you are the one i want to tell what you said over nolan about keepin' silent when you know the score I am guilty you hear me? I am guilty... .
i do not want to hear it in there.
i do not get it!
tell it to me in there and my lips are sealed. but if i dig it out myself i can use it where it will do the most good.
but you have got to listen to me.
I will find you a priest.
it started as a favor for my brother you know they would ask me things and it is hard to say no a favor who am i kiddin'? they call it a favor but it is do it or else. and this time the favor turned out to be helping them knock off joey. i just thought they would lean on him a little but last night with edie i wanted to tell her only it stuck in my throat. i guess i was scared of drivin' her away and i love her, father. she is the first thing i ever loved.
what are you going to do?
about edie?
edie. the commission. your subpoena. i know you got a subpoena.
it is like carrying a monkey around on your back.
a question of who rides who.
if i spill, my life will not be worth a nickel.
how much is your soul worth if you don't?
but it is my own brother they are askin' me to finger and johnny friendly. his mother and my mother was first cousins. when i was this high he took me to the ball games... .
ball games! do not break my heart! i would not care if he gave you a life pass to the polo grounds. so you got a brother. well, let me tell you something you got some other brothers and they are all getting the short end while your cousin johnny gets mustard on his face at the polo grounds. if i was you   listen, I am not asking you to do anything, terry. it is your own conscience that is got to do the asking.
conscience... .  i did not even know i had one until i met you and edie... this conscience stuff can drive you nuts.
good luck.
is that all you have got to say to me, father?
edie... edie... ..
terry, what is wrong?
I have been sittin' in the church.
you?
yeah, yeah, it is up to me, it is up to me he says it is up to me.
who says?
the father. the father.
terry what is happening to you?
i just told the father.
told him what?
what i did to joey.
you... .
what i did to joey.
do not tell me do not tell me!
edie it is
hey, terry, guess who is here... that joker from the commission... .
looking for me?
he is got his nerve, gum-shoeing around here after what you told him.
jimmy, suppose i knew something, say a mug somebody put on somebody... .  you think i should turn him in?
a cheese-eater!  you are kidding!
yeah, I am kidding, I am kidding. you do not think i should turn him in... .
you was a golden warrior.
yeah us golden warriors.  you are a good kid, jimmy, a good tough kid. we stick together, huh, kid?
you was our first supreme commander, terry. keep out of sight and I will tell him you are out.
but i am not out. I am in. I am in. who is lying to who?
you looking for me?
not exactly. just thought I would sit down and rest my dogs a minute.  you know the next investigation we get into i hope it is got buildings with elevators in them. this one has been nothing but climbing stairs. and when we hit the top oor the folks are usually out.
i guess it is pretty tough work at that.
well, it will be worth it if we can tell the waterfront story the way the people have a right to hear it. do not you think?
did not i see you fight in the garden one night three or four years ago? with a fellow called wilson?
wilson yeah  yeah i fought wilson.
i thought you were going to take him that night but...
you want to know something i would have taken wilson
i think you could have.
if i licked him i would have had the title shot instead of him boy, i was ready that night.
you sure looked it. something go wrong?
yeah. johnny friendly and my brother had other ideas.
such as what?
listen, this am not for publication.
I am just resting my feet.
remember the first round how i had him against the ropes, and
I will never forget it. i thought it was all over.
yeah. my own blood and they sell me out for a lousy bet i had it in me to hit the top and  boy, if i wanted to, the things i could tell you about them guys
yeah?
well, i better get going. hit those stairs again.  was that a looping right or an uppercut the first time you caught him?
looping right! i never swung wild. i was strictly a short puncher hooks over 'n under   whop-whop!
really?
yeah, really!
where you going? I will walk along with you.
sure... .
drink up, charley. we are ahead of you.
I am not thirsty.
after what we been hearing about your brother, i thought your throat'd be kind of dry.
so they are walking along and smiling. that does not mean he is going to talk. there is no evidence until he gives public testimony.
thanks for the legal advice, charley. that is what we always kept you around for.  now how do we keep him from giving this testimony? is not that the er as you put it main order of business?
he was always a good kid. you know that.
this girl and the father got their hooks in him so deep he does not know which end is up anymore.
i am not interested in his mental condition. all i want to know is, is he d 'n d or is he a canary?
i wish i knew.
so do i, charley. for your sake.
what do you want me to do, johnny?
very simple. just bring him to... that place we been using. mac, you take care of the details. call gerry g. in if you think you need him.
gerry g!! you do not want to do that, johnny! sure the boy's outa line, but he is just a confused kid.
confused kid? first he crosses me in public and gets away with it and then the next joker, and pretty soon I am just another fellow down here.
johnny, i can not do that. i can not do that, johnny.
then don't.
but my own kid bro
this is for you to figure out. you can have it your way or you can have it his way.  but you can not have it both ways.  am i right, sonny?
gee, charley, I am sure glad you stopped by for me. i needed to talk to you. what is it they say about blood, it is
thicker than water.
river street? i thought we was going to the garden.
I have got to cover a bet there on the way over. anyway, it gives us a chance to talk.
nothing ever stops you from talking, charley.
the grapevine says you picked up a subpoena.
that is right... .
of course, the boys know you too well to mark you down for a cheese-eater.
mmhmm.
you know, the boys are getting rather interested in your future.
mmhmmm.
they feel you have been sort of left out of things, terry. they think it is time you had a few little things going for you on the docks.
a steady job and a few bucks extra, that is all i wanted.
sure, that is all right when you are a kid, but you will be pushing thirty pretty soon, slugger. it is time you got some ambition.
i always figured I would live longer without it.
maybe.
there is a slot for a boss loader on the new pier we are opening up.
boss loader!
ten cents a hundred pounds on everything that moves in and out. and you do not have to lift a finger. it will be three-four hundred a week just for openers.
and for all that dough i do not do nothin'?
absolutely nothing. you do nothing and you say nothing. you understand, do not you, kid?
yeah yeah i guess i do but there is a lot more to this whole thing than i thought, charley.
you do not mean you are thinking of testifying against
i do not know i do not know! i tell you i am not made up my mind yet. that is what i wanted to talk to you about.
listen, terry, these piers we handle through the locals you know what they are worth to us?
i know. i know.
well, then, you know cousin johnny is not going to jeopardize a setup like that for one rubber-lipped
do not say that!
ex-tanker who is walking on his heels ?
do not say that!
what the hell!!!
i could have been better!
the point is there is not much time, kid.
i tell you, charley, i have not made up my mind!
make up your mind, kid, i beg you, before we get to four thirty-seven river... .
four thirty-seven that is not where gerry g...?
take the boss loading, kid. for god's sake. i do not want to hurt you.
charley... . charley... . wow... .
i wish i did not have to do this, terry.
wow... .
what do you weigh these days, slugger?
...eight-seven, eighty-eight. what is it to you?
gee, when you tipped one seventy-five you were beautiful. you should have been another billy conn. that skunk i got to manage you brought you along too fast.
it was not him!  it was you, charley. you and johnny. like the night the two of youse come in the dressing room and says, "kid, this am not your night we are going for the price on wilson." it am not my night. I would of taken wilson apart that night! i was ready remember the early rounds throwing them combinations. so what happens this bum wilson he gets the title shot outdoors in the ballpark!  and what do i get a couple of bucks and a one-way ticket to palookaville.  it was you, charley. you was my brother. you should of looked out for me. instead of making me take them dives for the short-end money.
i always had a bet down for you. you saw some money.
see! you do not understand!
i tried to keep you in good with johnny.
you do not understand! i could have been a contender. i could have had class and been somebody. real class. instead of a bum, let's face it, which is what i am. it was you, charley.
it was you, charley... .
okay I will tell him i could not bring you in. ten to one they will not believe it, but go ahead, blow. jump out, quick, and keep going... and god help you from here on in.
i had to, edie. i had to see you.
lucky pop is not home, he would kill you.
you think i stink, do not you? you think i stink for what i told you?
i do not want to talk about it. i want you to go.
edie, listen to me! i want you to believe me. i want to be with you.
how can you be with charley and johnny friendly and still be with me? either way it is a lie. it is like there were two different people inside of you. you have got to be one or the other.
i do not want to hurt charley i do not want to hurt you...
it is you who is being hurt. by keeping it inside you, like a poison. sooner or later it is got to come out.
i know what you want me to do!
i do not want you to do anything. let your conscience tell you what to do.
that  word again! why do you keep saying conscience, conscience... .
i never mentioned the word before. in his agony he grips a glass standing on the night table.
i keep hearing it and i do not know what to do..i do not know what to do... .
my hand.
it is just a scratch. you will not die. she turns away from him.
edie...
get away from me.
edie, i need you to love me. tell me you love me.
i did not say i did not love you. i said stay away from me.
edie, edie, i...
terry, I am frightened. more and more frightened.
I am looking for charley. i heard charley was waiting for me.  charley?
charley.
i mean it, let's get away from here, first joey then nolan, now charley and any minute... .  ...i'm frightened I am frightened.
I will take it out of their skulls.
i do not want to see you killed. i want to live with you. live with you. any place it is safe to walk the streets without... .
I will take it out of their skulls.
terry, no, no... .
do not hang on to me. and do not follow me. do not follow me.  call the father. ask him to take care of charley for me. my brother. there is something i got to do.
terry, you are bleeding.
do what i told you. take care of charley.
terry, for god's sake.
get out of my way.
no, i can not let you. i can't, you are
is johnny in?
no.
no?
give me a double.
take it easy now, terry.
keep the advice. give me the whiskey.
what is wrong with your shoulder?
hit me again.
listen, kid, why do not you go home before johnny... .
no advice. just whiskey.
easy. easy, boy.
you ought to go home and take care of that
first things first.
i want to see you, terry.
you got eyes. I am right in front of you.
now do not give me a hard time.
what do you want from me, father.
your gun.
mind your own business, father.
this is my business.
why do not you go and chase yourself?
give me that gun.
you go to hell.
what did you say?
you go to
take your hands off me. what you call me?
a bum. look what you are doing. you want to be brave? firing lead into another man's flesh is not brave. any bum who picks up a .45 in a pawn shop can be that brave. you want to hurt johnny friendly? you want to fix him for what he did to charley and a dozen men who were better than charley? do not fight him like a hoodlum down here in the jungle. that is just what he wants. he will hit you in the head and plead self-defense. fight him tomorrow in the courtroom with the truth as you know it  truth is the gun drop that thing and tell the truth a more dangerous weapon than this little   cap pistol.
you mean to sit there and tell me that your local takes in sixty-five thousand, five hundred dollars every year and keeps no financial records?
sure we keep records!
well, where are they?
we was robbed last night and we can not find no books.
does not it seem odd to you that five different waterfront locals were broken into last night and the only articles removed were financial records?
what do you mean, odd? we was robbed like i told you.
that is all. next witness!
edie.
i thought you might want some hot coffee.
thanks just the same.
well, it is over.
but i feel like my friends will not talk to me.
are you sure they are your friends?
jimmy...
he is going to have to grow up too.
my pigeons... .
terry, you better stay in for a while. I will come and cook your meals. be sure you keep the door locked.
every one of 'em... .
you heard what johnny said. no part of the waterfront'll be safe for you now. maybe inland the middle west somewhere a job on a farm... .
farm...
then go ahead go ahead! go down to the shape-up and get yourself killed, you stupid, pigheaded, son of a  what are you trying to prove? with a decisive gesture terry takes the hook and sticks it through his belt. then he goes to the wall and lifts joey's windbreaker from the nail on which it has been hanging. he puts the windbreaker on in a deliberate way, and grins at her as he does so; then he walks to the door with a sense of dignity he has never had before.
you always said i was a bum. well  not anymore. I am going down to the dock. do not worry, I am not going to shoot anybody. I am just going to get my rights.  joey's jacket. it is time i start wearing it.
you want to know the trouble with you? you think it makes you a big man if you can give the answers.
listen, johnny
go on beat it. do not push your luck.
you want to know somethin'?
i said beat it! at the right time I will catch up with you. be thinkin' about it.
you want to know something? take the heater away and you are nothin' take the good goods away, and the kickback and the shakedown cabbage away and the pistoleros  away and you are a great big hunk of nothing  your guts is all in your wallet and your trigger finger!
go on talkin'. you are talkin' yourself right into the river. go on, go on... .
I am glad what i done today, see? you give it to joey, you give it to nolan, you give it to charley who was one of your own. you thought you was god almighty instead of a cheap connivinggood-for-nothing bum! so I am glad what i done you hear me? glad what i done!
you ratted on us, terry.
from where you stand, maybe. but I am standing over here now. i was rattin' on myself all them years and did not know it, helpin' punks like you against people like pop and nolan an'... .
come on. i want you. you are mine. you are mine! come on!
what happened?  what happened?
tommy, what happened?
where you goin'?
let me by.
terry...?
terry... terry... .
they are waiting for him to walk in.
you hear that, terry?  terry, did you hear that?  you lost the battle but you have a chance to win the war. all you gotta do is walk.
...walk?
johnny friendly is layin' odds that you will not get up.
am i on my feet...?
terry...?
you can!
i can? okay.  okay...
