we sure picked the wrong night to find a cemetery.  let's turn back.
no.  it is on a night like this when the best ideas come to mind.
but does it have to be in a cemetery?
you would not understand.  seeing a cemetery on a night like this can stir in the mind the best ideas for a good horror story.
but there are so many wonderful things to write about, bob.
sure there are--and I have tried them all.  plays, love stories, westerns, dog stories.  huh, now there was a good one, that dog story all about--
but horror stories!  why all the time horror stories?
shirley, i wrote for years without selling a single word.
your puritan upbringing holds you back from my monsters, but it certainly does not hurt your art of kissing.
that is life.  my kisses are alive.
who is to say my monsters are not alive?
all of my books are based on fact, or legend.  thats perhaps why they are more interesting and sell in the top spots.
well, fact or not, i do not see how we are going to find an ancient cemetery in these mountains tonight.  i can not see a thing!  let's turn back.
there is an old cemetery on this road. I have been there before.
I am getting the jitters! let's turn back!
okay.
ahh, the curiousity of youth... on the road to ruin!  may it ever be so adventurous!
I am so frightened.
well we certainly can not stay here. c'mon.
where?
in there.
it frightens me.
silly, there is nothing in there to be afraid of.
then..then what is that music?
that is what i want to find out. we have to get help.
what help can we possibly find in the cemetery at this time of night?
something is making that music.
I am not sure i care to find out what it is.
all right.  do not worry, I will be right beside you.
what help will that do if something in there is not dead?
not dead?  in a cemetery?
i can not imagine anything dead playing that music.
well, it is probably just the caretaker, and that is exactly who we want to find.  they will have a telephone.  c'mon.
could it be some kind of college initiation?
it is an initiation all right, but not of a college as you and i know them.  nothing alive looks like that!
can not we get out of here?
I am not sure...
what do you mean?
I am not sure, myself. it is just a feeling I have had since the crash...like i feel a cold chill all over.. ..now this!
look!
be careful!--they'll see you.
they are live ones?
yes, master.
live ones where only the dead should be?
yes, master, and we caught them, him and me.
but they are not yet one of us.
a situation easily remedied.
tie them that they may watch.
I am so frightened.
you have got a right to be. we are trapped by a bunch of fiends.
those creatures..!
do not let them hear you.
what can we do?
i do not know.  i just do not know. but do not give up. we are not finished yet.
easy shirley, easy!  panic will not do us any good!  let me think. we have got to stall for time.
I am afraid I will faint.
whatever you do, do not do that.
...and what is this?
a symbol, master.
what kind of symbol?
she loved the bull ring and the matador.  she danced to their destruction. now she dances to her own destruction.  her dance is of skulls.
she came to us on the day of the dead.
el dia de los muertos...a celebration in her country.
her dance has pleased me.
she was?
as i said, a worshipper of snakes, and of smoke, and flames.
oh, yes, a religion of sorts.
it would seem so, master.
i do not like snakes.  i remember the one cleopatra used.  cute little rascal until it flicked out that red tongue, and those two sharp fangs.  you would never think such a little thing packed such a big wallop.
aaaaahhnnnhaaaaaannnhhh?
hurt her?  hell, it killed her!
aaaahhhhnnnahhhnnnggnnn.
we had lots of snakes in my ancient egypt...slimy, slinky things.
aahhhhnnnaaahahnn. aaaaaahhhhooowwwoooooooooooooooooooooo!
when i was alive, they were the things nightmares were made of.
aaarrrgggaahh.
she pleases me.  permit her to live in the world of the snakes.
now, i will talk...to the wolf man...and the mummy.
as you wish, master
he wants us.
aaahhnnnahnnnn.
what do you suppose for?
aaaaannnnnuuunnnuhhhhh?
did you do something to get us into trouble again?
aannnnaahhnn.
did you howl off-key at the moon again?
aannnnaahhnn.
i can not remember doing anything wrong either.
have we in some way made you angry, master?
you know better than that.
we do not know of anything, master...
then why do you shake so?
it is not often an emperor like <i>you</i> calls on creatures like us.
well rest easy, I am not angry with either of you.
aaaahhhh.
then it is some service you desire of us.
you are the keepers of the damned.  you two know them all. and i am tired of this usual type of entertainment. i want...a decided change.
yes, yes yes i know all that.
at the first sight of the morning sun's rays, we must be gone.
i suppose most of the others will have to wait for their judgement until after the next full moon.
it would seem so, master
ahh, but i declare there is still time for <i>some</i>thing.
there are one or two which should complement the night's entertainment, master
ahh, good.  then i will see them.  dismiss the rest.
yes, sir, master.
the ropes are coming loose.
be careful!
i am--it's our only chance.
nothing is worth your life.
my guess is if we do not take the chance pretty soon, we are not going to have much life left anyway.
I am frightened.  I am so frightened.
hold on just a little longer, shirley.
be careful, oh please be careful.  we will never get out of here alive, i know it.  i just feel it.
you do?
yes i feel it in my bones.
you are talking nonsense.
oh, no I am not.  these heathens probably have an open grave for us.
they would not dare put us in the same grave-- <b>or would they?</b>
i should hope not.  i hate you!
that sudden?
yes, that sudden.  if it were not for you we would not be hunting for an old cemetery on a night like this.  it is all your fault.
...and i thought you loved me.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.
i have promised both the wolf man and the mummy a reward.  it could be that <b>you</b> are that reward.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.
you need not worry...not just now, anyway.
leave her alone, you fiend!
fiend is it!  you will not be so fortunate.  your existence will cease within moments.  no one wishes to see a man dance...  and you, my dear, will entertain for centuries to come.
if i could get my hands on you...
..oh, you could do nothing!  i can save you much pain.
leave her alone, i tell you!
i do not joke in my proposal.
she is to be <b>mine!</b>  it is so spoken!
the princess of darkness would have you for her own to join us through extreme pain.  yet i am inclined for one as lovely as you, to be more lenient. i have but to touch you with my finger, and it would mean the end of you, all over, quickly and painlessly...
no. no! no!
i repulse you?  very well.  it seems you have chosen your own fate. live with it!  i should say <b>die</b> with it!
I have got the ropes loose now. I have got my hands free.  be careful--don't change your expression too much.  they must not catch on.
what can we do against them?
i do not know, yet.  we will just have to watch our chance. when it comes I will know what to do--i hope I will know what to do.
i still do not know what ever made me go steady with a crackpot writer like you.
all right.  put it on heavy.
my old boyfriend tommy would never have gotten me in a mess like this.  at least <i>he's</i> got brains.
<i>him!</i>  I will bet he sleeps with all the lights on.
maybe so.
i could make her another cleopatra...
ahh hahahhnnn hahnnn!
without the snake, of course.
well?
ahh, she will be yours.
when!?
at your discretion...but first, i desire more entertainment.
the moon is almost gone!
ahh, there is yet time.
at the first sight of the morning's rays' light...
i know the laws of the night. i state there is still time for yet another.
i would have time for my own pleasures!
your own pleasure comes only after mine, when i desire it. i am the sole ruler of the dark world.  there is no one to challenge my authority here. my word is the law--all powerful. <b>no one</b> is to challenge that authority, <b>no one!</b>.  is that understood?  it is my command.
i understand, master
then see that it does not happen again, in the penalty of everlasting despair.  now are there others?
there are others.
well then let us proceed.
the moon sinks lower into the hills!  we must hurry to the finish.
i will decide the conclusion.
you had the mummy cancel all the others scheduled for this session.
then cancel my order.
the <b>moon</b> is almost <b>gone!</b>
there is yet time.  do not you want your own pleasure?
oh, if there is only time!
hahh, there is always time... all in good time...there is <b>always</b> time.  you shall have your pleasure.  <b>that</b>... i <i>decree</i>
all others were but infinitessimal bits of fluff, compared to <i>her</i>  this one would have <i>died</i> for feathers, furs, and fluff...and so she did!
the time...is short.
for what!?!
your pleasures of course!
you mean...!
you may take her now.
is there time?
you better hope there is.
thank you, master!  thank you.
now hurry, hurry.  i will watch!  your desires may be my pleasure also...our fitting climax to an evening's enter- tainment.  you must...hurry now.
i love you bob. i really do. forgive me?
there is nothing to forgive. it was all a dream.
you love me then?
of course i do.
