some people are going out of here. what if i told you where and when?
how many?
i expect you to look out for me, pup, let me run off work details.
okay.  how many going out?
i hear six.
when?
looks like tonight.
you know who they are?
i do, but i will not tell you just yet. meet me in the chapel at eight-thirty, right before lock-down.
you excited?
i told you, man, super bowl sunday.
yeah, but i see you moved it up.
why you think is today?
you were out running this morning, sticking to your routine, anybody happened to notice.  but you only did a couple of miles instead of your usual five.  saving yourself for the main event.  then i see you inside eating ten pounds of macaroni. carbohydrates for endurance.
you want, i tole you you can come. you all right, foley.  i like you.
you told me i can come 'cause i caught you digging the fuckin' tunnel, saw you and lulu coming out of the bushes, thought maybe you two were making out.
you see what they doing, those posts out there?  putting up another fence, five metres on the other side of the one that is there.  we wait until super bowl sunday, they could have the second fence built and we have to dig another nine, ten days.  so we going soon as it is dark.  you want -- i mean it -- you can still come.
i appreciate the offer.  and it is tempting.
that is funny, adele.  how many more times you going to gimme that one?
till it is not funny any more.  what do you want, jack?
you know that super bowl party?  they changed the date.  it is on tonight, eight-thirty.
did not you tell me one-time calls are not monitored?
i said not as a rule.
so why do not you come right out and tell me what you are talking about?
listen to miss smarty mouth.  out there in the free world.
what is free about it?  I am looking for work.
what happened to mandrake the magician?
emil the amazing.  the bastard fired me and hired another girl, a redhead. I am working on a new business card, pass out to the cafes.  how is this sound--
listen, adele, the reason i called, that party is today instead of sunday. about eight-thirty, like only a few hours from now.  so you will have to get hold of buddy, whatever he might be doing...
and the one driving the other car?
what are you talking about?
well, seeing as you have so much luck with cars, buddy thought it might be better to bring two.  he got this guy he says you know from lompoc, glenn something.
glenn michaels.
yeah, that is him.  buddy says glenn thinks you guys are real cool.
he did, huh.  well, tell buddy i see glenn wearing his sunglasses I will step on 'em.  i might not even take 'em off first.
you fit another chanel suit in here?
something better.  open it.
it is beautiful.
it is a --
--sig-sauer .38.  i love it.
thanks, dad.
happy birthday, kid.  you want another coke?
can't.  i got to drive out to glades, then I am meeting ray nicolet at ten.
which one is that?  the atf guy?
he was.  ray's with the f.b.i. now, he switched over.
he is still married though, huh?
technically.  they are separated.
oh, he is moved out?
he is about to.
then they are not separated, are they?
can we change the subject?
what are you doing at glades?
serving process, a summons and complaint.  some con doing mandatory life does not like macaroni and cheese. he files suit, says he has no choice in what they serve and it violates his civil rights.
you know you can always step in, work with me full-time as one of my investigators.
no thanks.
you used to like it.
dad...
you would meet doctors, lawyers -- nothing wrong with them necessarily if they are divorced.  why settle for some cowboy cop who drinks too much and cheats on his wife?  that is the way those hotshots are, all of 'em.
i really gotta go.
we do not get to talk much any more.
how 'bout i come next sunday and watch the super bowl with you?
I would like that.
it is richard ripley.
the wall street guy?  oh, yeah.  i did not recognize him without his rug.
he got three years and fined fifty million dollars and wrote 'em a fucking check.  like that, fifty mil, signed his name.  whoa-- little help here!
who you talkin' to, studs?  me, or buddy.  i can not tell, you got those shades on.
you guys-- come on-- this is too heavy!
i guess the bright glare out here made it hard to see the numbers on the weights.
I will take the shades off.  just get this fuckin' thing off me.
detroit.  snoopy miller told me uncut diamonds are as easy to move as cash.
ever seen an uncut diamond, studs? they look like plain old rocks.
so.  what is your point?
my point is, that is probably what you are going to end up with.
you think he is lying?
use your head.  the guys got five million lying around his house, you really think he is going to tell some motormouth he just met in prison about it?
you do not wanna be standing there, the hacks start asking questions you do not wanna answer.
oh, uh, right, thanks...
i bet that is all the hacks they send out.  otherwise nobody's left to mind the store.
why do not we talk about it later?
why you are just a girl.  what do you do for a living you pack a shotgun?
I am a federal marshal and you are under arrest, both of you guys.
you comfy?
if i could have a little more room.
there is not any.  all this shit you got in here.  what is all this stuff anyway?  handcuffs, chains... what is this can?
for your breath.  you could use it. squirt some in your mouth.
you devil, it is mace, huh?  what have you got here, a billy?  use it on poor unfortunate offenders.
where is your gun, your pistol?
in my bag, in the car.
boy, it stunk in there.
i believe it.  you have ruined a nine- hundred-dollar suit my dad gave me.
yeah, went real nice with that twelve gauge, too.  tell me, why in the world would someone like you ever become a federal marshall?
the idea of going after guys like you appealed to me.
guys like me, huh.  well, listen, even though I have been celibate lately, I am not going to force myself on you.  I have never done that in my life.
you would not have time anyway.  we come to a roadblock, they will run the car, find out in five seconds who it belongs to.
if they get set up in time, which i doubt.  and even if they do they will be looking for a buncha little latin fellas, not a big black guy driving a ford.
must be quite a pal, risk his own ass like this.
who, buddy?  yeah.  he is a good guy. back when we jailed together, he would call his sister every week without fail.  she is a born-again christian, does bookkeeping for a televangelist. buddy calls her up, confesses his sins, tells her about whatever bank he happened to rob.
buddy.  that is his given name?
one i gave him, yeah.  fuck...
so, what is your name?  it will be in the paper tomorrow anyway.
jack foley.  you have probably heard of me.
why, are you famous?
time i was convicted in california? fbi told me I would robbed more banks than anyone in the computer.
how many was that?
tell you the truth, i do not know.  i started when i was eighteen, driving for my uncle cully and his partner, gus.  they go into a bank this one time in slidell, gus jumps the counter to get the tellers and breaks his leg. all three of us ended up in angola.
that is funny.
i thought so, too.
it was me, i woulda left old gus on the floor.
i believe you would have.  another fall, i did seven years at lompoc.  and i do not mean the place next door where some of nixon's people went.
i know the difference.  you were in lompoc usp, the federal penitentiary. I have delivered people there.  so basically you have spent half your life in prison.
basically.  yeah.  if i go back now, i do a full thirty years, no time off. can you imagine looking at that?
i do not have to.  i do not rob banks.
you do not seem all that scared.
of course i am.
you do not act like it.
what do you want me to do?  scream?  i do not think it would help much.  I am just going to sit back, take it easy, and wait for you to screw up.
jesus, you sound like my ex-wife.
you were married?  all those falls, I am surprised you had time.
it was just a year, give or take a few days.  i mean, it is not like we did not get along or anything.  we had fun, we just did not have that... that thing, you know?  that spark, you know what i mean?  you got to have that.
uh-huh.
we still talk, though.
sure.
you know, this is not going to end well, these things never do.
yeah, well, if it turns out i get shot like a dog, it will be in the street, not off a goddamn fence.
you must see yourself as some kind of clyde barrow.
oh, you mean of bonnie and clyde?  hm. you ever see pictures of him, the way he wore his hat?  you could tell he had that don't-give-a-shit air about him.
i do not recall his hat, but I have seen pictures of him lying dead, shot by texas rangers.  did you know he did not have his shoes on?
is that right?
they put a hundred and eighty-seven bullet holes in clyde, bonnie parker and the car they were driving.  bonnie was eating a sandwich.
you are full of interesting facts, are not you?
it was may, 1934, near gibsland, louisiana.
that part in the movie where they get shot?  warren beatty and... i can not think of her name.
faye dunaway.
yeah, i liked her in that movie about tv...
<i>network</i>.  yeah, she was good.
and the guy saying he was not going to take any more shit from anybody...
peter finch.
yeah, right.  anyway, that scene where warren beatty and faye dunaway get shot?  i remember thinking at the time it would not be a bad way to go, if you have to.
bleeding on a country road.
it was not pretty after, no, but if you were in that car -- eating a sandwich -- you would not have known what hit you.
you are sure easy to talk to.  i wonder -- say we met under different circumstances and got to talking, say you were in a bar and i came up to you -- i wonder what would happen.
nothing.
i mean if you did not know who i was.
you would probably tell me.
I am just saying i think if we met under different circumstances...
you have to be kidding.
another one faye dunaway was in i liked, <i>three days of the condor</i>.
with robert redford, when he was young.
yeah...
i never thought it made sense, though, the way they got together so quick.
really.
i mean, romantically.
uh-huh.  well, but if --
where in the hell are we?
that is the turnpike up there.  glenn's waiting with the other car.
okay, honey, come on out of there.
get your hands up and turn around. now.
shit...
we may as well leave her, we are leaving the car and we got to leave her some place anyway, what is the difference where?
she is coming with us.
jesus christ, what were you doing in there?
get the shotgun.  and her purse.  I would like to know who she is.
do we need him?
the green-and-whites saw us.  one of 'em starts thinking, what is that car doing there?  ties it to the break and turns around...
oh, hey, studs?  we thought you were somebody else.
studs.  man, i have not heard that since lompoc.  what is going on?
oh, nuthin'.
I will send it to you at glades.
jesus, what did you crawl through, a sewer?
take your sunglasses off.
i see better with them on.
you do not take 'em off, I am going to throw 'em off the overpass while they are still on your head.
wait in the car.
you are in civilization now, man, ease up.
I would like you to go wait in the car. how is that?  take her with you and put her in back.
in the trunk?
the backseat.
wait a minute.  let me have your raincoat.  somebody forgot to bring me clean clothes.
i brought 'em, they are back at glades in the cadillac.  you wanted to take her car.
why you brought glenn into this, I will never know.
how 'bout the score was his idea to begin with?
his idea?  gimme a break.  fuckin' guy's got a vacant lot for a head.  was you and me figured the whole thing out.
i do not know why, but every time he opens his mouth i want to punch him out.
he am not the problem, jack.
i got a big score lined up up north. they would not even know about it, it was not for me.  i could do it right now myself, except it is so fucking cold up there in january--
glenn?
you do not remember me, do you?
it could not have been out at glades, if that is what you are thinking.  i was never out there.
no, that is not what I am thinking.
but you are sure we have met, huh?
last fall, i drove you from the palm beach county jail to the federal courthouse, twice.  you are glenn michaels.  i never forget anyone I have cuffed and shackled.
do we have a gun in the car?
i remember you now.  shit.
foley's not going to make it.  and if he goes down, glenn, you go with him.
look, i can understand if you and foley are close.
we are not.  I am helping him, yeah--
wait.  <i>have</i> you helped him, glenn?  at this point, technically, i doubt you could be charged with aiding a fugitive. so you still have a choice.  you can help him and risk going down again, get cuffed and shackled, hope to god you pull a reasonable judge, not some hard-on.  or, if you want to play it another way...
you want to take her to my place and get cleaned up?  you come out of the bathroom with your after-shave on and she goes, "oh, i had you all wrong"?
i want to talk to her again, that is all.  see what would happen under, you know, normal circumstances.
you are too late, jack.
thank you...
not so fast, dick.  starting now, there is going to be an across the board cost a living increase.
what?
year ago, i come in here on credit card fraud, but after i shanked that loudmouth pussy on the yard the other day, my dunn & broadstreet, has gone way the fuck up.
i think it is dunn & bradstreet.  but then, i could be wrong...
whoever.  the point is, prices are goin' up, too.  better get your little black book out, richard.  we got some business to talk about.
that bausch & lomb saline shit you asked for is gonna be eighty bucks.
well, i need that...
...and that extra pillow's going to be an even three c's.
sign says "shut the fuck up."  or can not you guys read?
there a problem, foley?
yeah.
yeah, i got a problem.  this is the dumbest fucking shakedown in the history of dump shakedowns.  three hundred bucks for a pillow?
that is right.
sounds high, does not it?
must be a real soft pillow.
faux goose down.
still...
how much for your company at chow?
company, shit.  i watch the man's back.
i bet.  how much?
another c.
you are smart, ripley, you will tell this guy to fuck off.
really?  well, i uhhh...
first of all, if he kills you, he is not going to get any more money out of you.
this does not concern you, foley.  why do not you go on out to the yard, have yourself a smoke?
i do not smoke.
himey here's a pro-toh-jay of mine. he is ranked number thirty-two in the federal prison system.
thirty-two outta what, twenty?
excuse me.  snoopy?  did we settle the fish thing?
yeah.  sure.  it is all settled.
thanks for your help.
any time.
snoopy.  glenn michaels.
studs.  hey, son, you must be one a them psychic friends.  i was just thinkin' about you.
listen, snoopy, I am on my way up to detroit and need a place to crash.
you crazy, come up here?  it is fuckin one degree outside.
i wanna talk to you about a job.
uh-huh.
i can not really go into it right now. I will just tell you it is someone big.
someone?  gimme a hint.
it is a guy you know.
gimme another hint.
it is richard ripley.
you there?
oh, I am here, all right.  I am very here. question is, why are not you here?
I am just saying she was not scared.
cause she had her hand on her gun the whole time, waiting to make her move.
you are just jealous it was me in the trunk with her and not you.
you are right.
I have been dreaming about a hot bath for the last six months.  soak the prison off me.
there is some lilac oil, you want some, a vanilla candle under the sink.
oh, man.
there is something about a nice hot bath, transforms a person.  it is not just about opening up your pores, know what i mean?  there is just something about the heat and the wet that is calming you know?  settles me in a way that i really can not articulate.
i know exactly what you mean.  it is just a feeling.  you know, i could go for some wine tonight.
there is a store around the corner, I will be right back.
sounds great.
you were talking in your sleep.
what did i say?
"hey, yourself."
huh.
hello, daniel.
daniel burdon, fbi.
i wanna be on the task force, daniel.
that is nice of you to offer, karen, but i got all the help i can use right now.  instead, let's talk about how you got the bump on your head.
is not that my report you are holding onto?
yes, but i want to hear you tell it. starting with when you tried to grab the wheel -- where was this?
coming to the okeechobee exit...
take the next exit.
what am i supposed to do now?
glenn, take the exit.
no way, man, no fuckin' way am i going to turn myself in.
there is a couple of points i keep wondering about have to do with the two guys that grabbed you.  buddy is it?  and this fella jack foley.  i swear the man must have robbed two hundred banks in his time.
really?  huh.  he told me he did not remember how many he robbed.
you talked to him?
in the trunk, yeah?
what did you talk about?
oh... different things, prison, movies.
this fella holds you hostage, you talk about movies?
it was an unusual experience.
foley made me think of that fella carl tillman, the one you were seeing, it turns out the same time he was doing banks.  you recall that?
when i was seeing carl tillman, i did not know he robbed banks.
yeah, but i had enough reason to believe he did, and i told you.  so you had to at least suspect him.
and what happened to carl?
the time came, you shot him.  but you did not shoot foley or the guy with him.  they are unarmed, you had a shotgun and you let them throw you in the trunk. okay, now you got your sig in your hand.  you say in the report you could not turn around, he had you pinned down.  but when the trunk opened, how come you did not cap the two guys then?
is that what you would have done?
you say in the report glenn did not have a gun, but you let him get away, too.
daniel, what do you work on most of the time, fraud?  go after crooked bookkeepers.
karen, I have been with the bureau fifteen years, on all kinds of investigations.
have you ever shot a man?  how many times have you been primary through the door?
i have to qualify, is that it?
you have to know what you are talking about.
we will talk another time, karen.  all right?  I would like to know why foley put you in that second car when he did not need you any more.
you will have to ask him.
sounds to me like he liked having you around.  I will see you, karen.  mr. sisco.
what are you thinking about?
the sig sauer you got me for my birthday.
tell you what, you are a good girl, you might get another one for christmas.
they pass this picture around you can go anywhere you want, nobody'll know you.
i was not feeling my best that day. I would just drawn thirty to life.
maybe this'll make you feel better.
paper says there is ten grand each on you, chino and lulu.
say anything in there about karen sisco?
just that she got away.
yeah, but what happened after she drove off with glenn?
you will have to ask glenn.  and most likely, he is on his way to detroit, where we should be.
think this old guy is her boyfriend? it is the only picture she carries.
am i going to detroit by myself?
longer we hang around down here, jack, better chance there is either glenn's going to fuck up the whole score, or we going to get busted, or both.
we will leave first thing in the morning.
he does not even look like that.
no?
no, he looks a lot...
hi, ray.
you look great.  your dad taking good care of you?
he took the week off so we would have time together.  so far he is worked on his boat every day.  dad?  ray nicolet.
I have heard a lot about you, mr. sisco.
likewise.
ray's with the f.b.i. task force, working on the prison break.
i see that.
in case no one knows what he does. tell me, ray, you ever wear one says, "undercover"?
no.  course not.
how is it going?
great.  we got one of 'em.
was it foley?
off a tip?
yeah, someone spotted two of 'em in this hobo camp out by the airport, called the number--
i knew it, soon as i saw they were offering a reward.
foley?  oh.  no, it was one of the cubans.  linares.
oh...
we went out there, full swat, two choppers, the whole bit, but linares started shooting anyway.  we put him down, but somehow chirino got away.
did you pay the guy the reward?
yeah, as soon as we got back.
hello?  yeah, she is.  just a minute.  for you.
hello?
you know who this is?
yes.
how did you get this number?
who was it answered the phone?
none of your business.
I am just worried maybe I am not old enough for you.
that is my dad.
really.  he has a cop's face.
how do you know?  wait-- you have my wallet.
and your gun.
think i could have them back?
how do we do that?
let's see.  you could come on by my dad's place, drop 'em off.
sure.  I will just leave 'em with the s.w.a.t. guy answers the door.
there is a guy here on the task force right now.  maybe i should put him on the phone, let you two work it out.
you will not do that.
why not?
because you are having too much fun.
...she fixes him pork chops and rice, the next thing you know they are making love on the sofa.  she says he was very gentle.
i spoke to her.  the guy told her he missed his little girl and she felt sorry for him.
that is how you score now?
my dad's retired.  he was a private investigator.  forty years.  i used to work for him.
i can just picture that, a cute girl like you following slip-and-fall and whiplash cheaters.
something I have been wondering, what ever happened to your uncle cully?
why?  you think he might tell you where i am?
unless you wanna tell me.
he is dead.  he did twenty-seven years before he came out and died not too long after in charity hospital, i think trying to make up for all the good times he would missed.  that is not going to be me.
one last score, that the idea?  move to some island.
I am partial to mountains myself.  but if you like islands, we will make it an island.
whatta you mean we'll make it an island?
i just thought maybe you and me could--
what?!
you better come see this.
the woman also said he stole her husband's gun, a twenty-two pistol, and some of his clothes.
so the woman's married.  she goes to bed with this prison escapee because he misses his little girl and then tells the world about it.  but you do not reveal her name, you protect her.  it sounds like you are saying it is okay as long as her husband does not find out about it.  like the guy who cheats on his wife, saying what she does not know will not hurt her.
chino's going to wanna talk to me.
he is running for his life, he does not give a shit about you.
he is got to know by now that i gave him up back at glades.  he does, he is going to try to find me.  maybe go see adele, see what she knows.
he knows where she lives?
jack?
we were talking one time, drinking rum.  i may have mentioned adele, how she worked for a magician.  chino got interested.  he is like, yeah?  how does he saw the woman in half?  he wanted to meet her.  or get a look at her if she ever came to visit.
so call her up.  tell her do not talk to any cubans.
her phone's probably tapped.
and you know they are going to have some people watching the hotel.
shit.
remember, pay attention to how she talks about foley, her tone.  do it right, she will tell you things she would not tell burdon.  tell her you think he is a nice guy.  no, first tell her about being in the trunk with him, in the dark for half an hour, and see how she takes it.  if she is in on it, what does she get for all the aggravation; cops breathing on her?  i bet nothing.  so she still likes him enough to stick her neck out.  you think that is possible?  what kind of guy is he?
he is pretty laid back, confident.
he remind you of that guy, tillman?
not at all.
but you know he is dirty and you still wanna see him again.
i want to bust his ass, put him in shackles.
maybe.  but you are also curious about the man.  twice last night you asked your married boyfriend nicolet about him.  you were concerned, but you did not want to show it.
my married boyfriend - setting him up with that news story so you could talk about infidelity.  i could not believe it.
you like the wild ones, do not you? tillman, nicolet and now foley.  you know, I have always said there is a thin line between the cowboy cops and the armed robbers, all those guys that love to pack.
foley <i>kid</i>napped me.
yeah, but you talked all the way from gci to the turnpike.  it sounds more like a first date than a kidnapping.
oh, is this adele?
yes, it is.
uh-- sorry.  wrong number.
nice disguise.
I am a tourist.
you at least bring the gun?
in here with my suntan lotion and beach towel.  that is her place.
there.  you see the guy sitting on the porch?  the old ladies and one guy? you know they will have a couple more in a car somewhere.
uh-huh...
i guess adele's in good hands.
sure looks that way.
let's go to detroit.
now you are talkin'.
you were <i>both</i> in the trunk?  together?
from glades to the turnpike.  then i left with glenn.
the fbi did not tell you i was with them?
they did not <i>tell</i> me anything, they asked questions.
but you know what I am talking about, do not you?  about glenn, do not you, and the second car?
i know a glenn.
I am getting ready to go out.  you can come in if you want, sit down for a minute.  would you like a diet coke?
no, thanks.
he did not hurt you or anything, did he?
you mean, did he try to jump me?  no, but he was kind of talkative.
he gets that way when he is nervous sometimes.
you did not visit him in prison.
he did not want me to.
why not?
i do not know.  he was different after he was sentenced, looking at thirty years.  said it depressed him every time the younger cons called him an old timer.
but you spoke to him on the phone.
he would call every once in a while.
he called the day he escaped.
he did?  i do not remember.  did he say about me?  in the trunk?
he said he wished the two of you could start over, live a normal life.
huh.  problem is, jack's idea of a normal life is robbing banks.  it is all he is ever done.
did you know that when you married him?
he said he was a card player.  i could live with that.  i never knew he robbed banks till he got busted with that car that caught fire -- if you can imagine something like that happening, comes out of the bank and the car's on fire. i did go see him in jail to tell him i was filing for divorce.  he said, "okay."  jack's so easy going.  he was fun, but never what you would call a real husband.
I will say one thing for jack, he was never ugly or mean, or drank too much. he was very considerate, lights on or off, if you know what i mean.
really.  hm.
adele, sooner or later, he is going to get caught.  I would like to get him before he does something else, makes it worse on himself.
buddy'll take care of him.  keep him out've trouble.  he is jack's conscience. always has been.  he tell you how they met?
jack came out of a bank he just robbed in pasadena, could not get his stolen car to start.  battery was dead.  he looks over, sees buddy sitting in a burgundy bonneville, goes up, offers him a thousand dollars for a jump. turns out, buddy was casing the same bank and saw the whole thing.  buddy says, I will take the thousand, but we are leaving in my car, not that piece of shit you come in.  they musta robbed fifty banks together.
till they got busted.
that was not jack's fault.  no, that was on account of buddy, for some reason, decided to call his sister and confess to a job before they would done it instead of after.  she called the fbi and they both went down, ended up at lompoc.  i think buddy felt kinda bad about that.
any idea where i could find buddy?  or glenn?
adele?  you in there?
yes.
i want to speak with you, please.
who is it?
i talk to the guy you work for, emil. he tole me your number and where you live.  see, I am looking for an assistant and would like to speak to you.
oh.  uh-huh.
you did work for emil, right?
yeah, i was emil's box-jumper for almost four years.
you were his what, his box?
his assistant.
you say you perform in the miami area?
yes, around here.  i was a mayishan in cuba before i come here.  manuel the mayishan was my name.
I am not dressed.
listen to me.  I am a good friend of jack foley.
ask him his name.
who are you?
wait in the hall!  i have to get dressed!
tell me where is jack foley, i do not bother you no more.
i do not know where he is.
listen, I am the one help jack escape from prison.  he tole me, i can not find him to see you.  so why do not you open this fucking door.  okay?  so we can speak.
go away, or I will call the police.
why you want to do that, to a frien'?
leave it where it is.
wait.  you not adele?
I am a federal marshal and you are under arrest.  put the gun on the table.  i mean, now.
oh.  then this must be adele...
put it down or I will shoot.
you would not shoot me, would you?
what do you want to bet?
i could walk out of here.
if you move, if you look at her again, you are dead.
you can live or die, it is up to you.
oh, is that right?  you going to shoot me?  nice girl like you?  i do not think so.
you don't, huh?
lie face down on the floor.
what?!
daniel burdon, please.  karen sisco.
excuse me, adele?
yes.
you do the sawing of the box in half trick with you inside?
yes.
tell me, how do you do that?
shut up.
karen.  where are you?  i been trying to get a hold of you.
daniel.  listen --
where are you?  i been trying to reach you.
I am at adele delisi's.
what-- we already talked to her.  that is a dead end.
yeah, i know.  i was just leaving. why were you trying to reach me?
there was a buddy bragg at lompoc around the same time foley was there.  we got an address for him at the adams hotel in hallandale.  i want you to go there, see if you can get the manager to i.d. him as the other guy.  if he does, you call me right away...
all right, but...
but do not you do anything.  you just have a seat, wait for me to get there.
sure, daniel.
now.  what is it you wanted to tell me?
oh, i was just wondering, if i were to bring in chirino, would you put me on the task force?
what?  is that what you are calling me about?
yes or no, daniel.  if i get him, will you let me go after foley?
yeah, sure, karen.  you bring in chirino, you can be on the task force.
that is all i wanted to know.
good.  now forget about the ex-wife and get over to the adams hotel.
you are good.
thank you.
first thing we do, we get to detroit, we find glenn, then we find a window to throw him out of.
i been thinkin', if i was glenn, i was up there to take down the ripper, where would i go?
well, first off, if you were glenn, you would not be thinking.
remember snoopy miller, his old pal from lompoc?
snoopy.  christ, i thought he would be brain dead by now.
he is not fighting no more.  glenn told me the snoop's been managing some guys up there now, works out at the kronk.
you get the key?
they are in 7d.
you are primary, you are secondary, you are point man.
you are going to use a ram?
yeah, why?
the manager's door is metal.
take the radio, stay down here in the lobby, watch the elevator.
what?  daniel, i wanna go upstairs.
you can go wait out in the car, you want to.
now you see foley and this guy bragg come in behind us, whatta you do?
call and tell you.
and you let them come up.  you do not try to make the bust yourself.  you understand?
they know where i live, i guess they know what i drive, so maybe we should pick up another car on the way.
she just sat there, looking right at me.
he waved to you?
i could not swear to it, but I am pretty sure he did.
you wave back?
i did not have time.
i imagine you would have though.
buddy's sister regina mary bragg got two calls from buddy up in detroit this morning, called burdon.  she is also the one gave burdon buddy's address.
so?
so what i want to know is why buddy still calls his sister every week even after she turned him in.
he does not seem to hold a grudge.  what <i>i</i> want to know is why, they got such a big score up north, did foley hang around miami for so long?  any thoughts on that one?
none I would like to share.
watch the road, boy.  i like this town car.  we can cruise the man's neighbourhood without getting the police or private security people on our ass.
sure, right, they see bigfoot driving around a black guy wearing shades and a lavender fucking bandanna, no, they will not think anything of it.
it is lilac, man, the color, and the style's made known by deion and other defensive backs in the pros.  i could be one of them living out here with doctors of my race and basketball players.  okay, here comes mr. ripley's house up on the left.  yeah.  the brick wall.  there is his drive, right there.
you sure foley and his pal are not coming up here, do this themself?
if they are not busted now, they are going to be.  it is wide open.
so you still have not said, how you wanna do it?
I will show you, soon as i get one more guy I am going to need, moselle's brother, kenneth.  along with white boy there.
what?
wait a minute.  I am letting <i>you</i> in on this, not all your friends.
you just ask me how we going to do it. that is what I am here for, tell you how.  we the experts.
thing I am worried about is you.
me?
yeah.  if you can step up and actually do it.  understand?  'stead of just talking the talk.
can i do what?
walk in a house with me, do this cross- dressin' nigga named eddie solomon i used to sell to been dealin' on his own.
what-- when?
right now, son.
i do not have to prove shit to you. the ripley job is <i>my</i> job.  you are either in or you are not.  you wanna pop some crack dealer pissed you off, that is your problem, not mine.
look, glenn, i know you cool, but you do not have to give me no tone of voice, okay?  you do not like what I am saying, you can get out anywhere along here you want.
i think you are forgetting, this is my car.  i drove it up here.
hey, shit, come on.  i say i want this car, man, it is mine.  you go get yourself another one.  i say I am in on ripley?  I am in, with or without <i>your</i> ass.  i say i want you to come along on another job, see if you for real or not, guess what you going to do?
tell me something.  what is it like, walk in a bank with a gun, stick it up?
i do not know.  i never used a gun.
really?
you would be surprised what all you can get, you ask for it the right way.
you are the reason, jack, i do not keep all my money in banks.
no?  where do you keep it, dick?  I am talking about all those uncut diamonds you told glenn about.
i know what you are talking about.
you are the one with balls, dick, say something like that to someone like glenn.  or maybe you just forgot where you were for a minute.
yeah, but who is going to believe glenn? i mean, do you believe glenn?
of course not.
plus, even it was true, he would still have to figure out where i keep 'em.
does not have to figure out shit.  you told him you keep 'em at your house.
it is a big house.
tell me something, jack, how much longer you in here?
twenty-two months, three days, two hours.  why?
i was just thinking that i could use a guy like you, someone knows how to ask for things the right way.  I am talkin' about when you are outta here.  i mean, you can not rob banks for ever.
it is a little late for me.
hey, jack?  bullshit.  i did not make my first million until i was forty- two.  forty-two.  you really want to change, it is never too late.
i do not know.  I am not exactly the nine-to-five type.
who is?  but then you gotta look at a job as more than just work.  you gotta look at it as peace of mind.  as <i>security</i>, you know what i mean?  i got offices in detroit, miami, boston, take your pick.
my ex-wife's in miami.  it is nice down there.
no need to decide now.  be like the fish.  let whatever happens happen.
the fish?
yeah, fish live in the present.  they do not dwell on yesterday and they do not worry about tomorrow.  even when a big fish attacks a little fish, there is no neurosis involved.  no guilt afterward. no whining on some fish-shrink's couch. they just do it.  they accept.
i can not say that I have paid that much attention to 'em before.
the fish saved my life.  two years ago, i found out i had high blood pressure.  so my doctor, he tells me to go get an aquarium, look at the fish every time i felt myself stressing out.
and the guy sent you a bill for this?
it works.  you should try it sometime.
the next time i walk into a bank.
"fight over tuna casserole may have spurred slaying."  seems this woman's live-in boyfriend, seventy years old, complained about her tuna noodle casserole and she shot him in the face with a twelve-gauge.  police found noodles in the woman's hair and think the guy dumped the casserole dish on her before she shot him.  they would been together ten years.
love is funny.
that was some shit, huh?
why did he have to do that to that girl?
yeah, kenneth, why you have to do that to that poor girl.
it is all right with you, I will just hang in the car.
no.  you going to stay close to me from now on.  so you do not disappear on me.
why would i do that?
whatta you think?
i think glenn opened his big mouth and now we got us another partner.
or two.
were not you expecting us?
that broad you picked up -- did you know she was a us marshal, for christ sake?
she <i>knew</i> me from some bullshit dope bust.  she drove me to court.  twice. you know what she said, we are in the car on the turnpike?  "i never forget anybody I have cuffed and shackled."
yeah?  she said that to you?
what happened to your shades?  someone finally step on 'em?
i do not know...
whose blood you got all over you?
these guys, man, they are crazy.  shit.
is that snoopy?  in the purple doo rag?
what is he do now, tell fortunes?
we have a problem here?
jack foley, famous bank robber.
snoopy miller, famous fight thrower.
it seems to me i been reading about you in the newspaper.  busted out of some joint in florida, huh?
low class of people there, snoop.
like being back in the yard, huh?
just like it.  nobody backing down. you back down, you pussy.  tell me what you and buddy doing up here in the cold?
glenn did not tell you?
i thought you guys were busted.
why?  just because you left us standing on the side of the road?
look, snoop, i do not know what glenn promised you or what you think you are going to get, but the deal is me and buddy get half of whatever we take from ripley, understand?  how you and glenn cut up the rest is up to you.
let's go outside and talk.
what is the matter with right here? it is nice and warm.
warm?  man, it is ninety-five degrees in here, sometimes a hundred -- the way emanuel always kep' it so his boys'd sweat, get lean and mean like tommy hearns.  no, i am not talking any business in here.  to me this is holy ground, man.  you understand?  i got to be someplace anyway.  you all want to talk, come to the fights tomorrow night, we will sit down and look at it good. the state theater.
white boy, how much is the reward on the man again?
ten gees.
uh-huh.  you recall, did it say dead or alive?
ironic, is not it?
how are you, raymond?
freezing.  but I am getting warmer.
quite a mess.
yeah.  and i thought everyone liked eddie.
who?
dude in the dress is eddie solomon, used to buy scag off a corner till he kicked it and found his happiness with crack and then started dealing himself. word on the street was he was saving up for an operation.
what is it with crack and transsexuals?
yeah, eddie was a real character.  had these girls cooked the rocks he called the rockettes.
yeah.  i saw one of 'em outside.
yonelle.  looks like someone raped her, shot her, then threw her out the window.  fuckin' animals.
other than we had so much fun the last time we worked together.  you going to tell me why you are comin' to me instead of the fbi?
i report to the fbi, first thing they are going to do is ask me to go get some coffee.
you know, I am not in homicide any more.
no, i did not know that.
yeah, I am crimes against persons and property now, also sex crimes and child abuse.
detroit, you must be pretty busy.
yeah, and, as you can see, home invasions are big, too.
listen, raymond, a year ago, dea had this guy glenn michaels on possession with intent but could not make it stick. in his statement, glenn said he went up to detroit to visit a friend and look into job opportunities -- if you can believe that.
who was the friend?
guy named maurice miller, also known as snoopy, a former prizefighter.
christ, i know snoopy miller.  he is a fuckin' wackjob thinks he is sugar ray leonard.  hangs out with a couple other grade-a nutcases over on the west side.
I will need a last known address.
that is fine, but i do not want you to talk to miller alone.
come on, raymond, I am a federal officer, I am armed.
outside of that.
does not say what she is doing up here, but i do not think it has anything to do with us.
she came up here on her vacation, 'cause she likes shitty weather.
i think she is after glenn.  the girl still with you?
they do not stay the night, jack, 'less you pay for it.
you tell your sister about it?
just hung up.
how long you talk to her?
two hours.
how long were you with the girl?
forty-five minutes.
you did not tell your sister about ripley, did you?  'cause i do not wanna go through that again.
forget about my sister.  if karen sisco's tailing glenn, we are fucked. tomorrow night at the fights we all get picked up.
let's drive by where we are meeting and have a look.  maybe take a look at ripley's place while we are at it.
i still have not made up my mind yet.
what is to think about?
you goin' right back to work?
first, I am goin' to israel for a year, study the talmud, work on a kibbutz... then come back, maybe take some tennis lessons.
moselle miller?
what do you want?
I am looking for maurice.
you find him, tell him the dog got run over and I am out of grocery money.
that is not maurice?
that is kenneth, my brother.  he is talking on the phone.
you like to sit down?
thanks.
I am looking for a friend of mine i think maurice knows.
you not with probation, one of those?
no.
you a lawyer?
no, I am not.  maybe you know him. glenn michaels?
glenn?  no, i do not know any glenn.
he said he stayed here last november.
here?  in this house?
he said he stayed with maurice.
well, <i>he</i> am not even here that much.  i like to know where he goes, but at the same time i do not <i>want</i> to know, you understand?
your dog was killed?
got run over by a car.
what did you call it?
was a she, name tuffy.
where do you think i might find maurice?
i do not know -- the gym, the fights. i <i>know</i> he do not miss the fights.  having some tomorrow night at the state theater.  he use to take me.
the state theater?
you are a fighter?
how you know that?
i can tell.
i <i>was</i>...
what did you fight, middleweight?
light to super-middleweight, as my body developed.  you go about what, bantam?
flyweight.
you know your divisions.  you like the fights?  like the rough stuff?  yeah, i bet you do.  like to get down and tussle a little bit?  like me and tuffy, before she got run over, we use to get down on the floor and tussle.  i say to her, "you a good dog, tuffy, here's a treat for you."  and i give tuffy what every dog love best.  you know what that is? a bone.  i can give you a bone, too, girl.
you are not my type.
do not matter.  i let the monster out, you going to do what it wants.
just a minute.
what is wrong with you?
you wanted to tussle, we tussled.
now that is a really big house.
jesus, look at that wall.  place almost looks like a prison.
no doubt the man's got some big-ass security system.
time comes, we knock on the door.  see if he wants to talk about old times. go in the easy way.
yeah?  you think he will let us in, we got snoopy and the muscle-bound asshole with us?
who says anybody's going to be with us? i say we go to the fights tomorrow, find out what the snoop's big plan is, then go in ahead of those guys -- alone.
let glenn deal with the snoop, while we are off livin' the good life.
tell me something, buddy.  you know anyone who is actually done one last big score and gone to live the good life?  cause it occurred to me that everyone talks about doing it, but i do not know anyone who is actually gone and done it.  do you?
what about that d.b. cooper guy?
i mean, they do not know for sure he is dead.  look, there is always a chance we will walk out've there with nothing.  i say let fate decide.
let fate decide?  what are you, the fuckin' dali lama now?
my sister believes in fate, but not hell.  that is why she stopped praying for the lost souls since you do not hear that much about purgatory anymore. but every day she asks her boss to pray i do not fuck up.  whatta you think, you think there is a hell, jack?
yeah, it is called glades correctional institution and I am sure as shit not going back there or any place like it.
you might not have a choice.
they put a gun on you, you will go back.
they put a gun on you, you still have a choice, do not you?
today, I am offering you a lousy job at a lousy wage.  you think you are better than that?  fine.  show me.  show me that you are really willing to change and we will talk about something better. a lot better.  but first, jack, you got to earn it.
how, dick?  the way you earned it?  by marrying some rich broad owns the company, selling it off a piece at a time, then divorcing her?  what is this knute rockne, pull yourself up by the bootstraps bullshit?  back in prison, guy like you, place like that, you were ice cream for freaks.  you were a goddamn dumpling.  maurice and a dozen other guys coulda bled you till you had nothing.  till you were nothing.  i saved your ass.  so you will pardon me if i do not wanna sit on a fuckin stool all day saying "sign in here please" or "hey, pal, you can not park there."  okay, dick?  i can not do it.
jack, I am disappointed.  i guess i misjudged you.
gentlemen.  i think we have calmed down now.  have not we, jack?
oh, yeah, I am calm.  in fact, I am totally "relaxed..."
listen, i got to get some better shoes, few other things before tomorrow.  why do not you drop me off at the ren cen, we will hook up later?
yeah, and i better call my sister.
it takes hours to get a drink around here.  there is only one waitress.
i can go to the bar.
do not leave me.
those guys bother you?
no, they are all right.  i meant, you just got here.
you like bourbon?
love it.
well, we got that out of the way.  tell me, celeste.  what do you do for a living?
I am a sales rep.  i came here to call on a customer and they gave me a hard time because I am a girl.
is that how you think of yourself?
what, as a sales rep?
a girl.
i do not have a problem with it.
i like your hair.  and that suit.
i had one just like it -- well, it was the same idea, but i had to get rid of it.
you did?
it smelled.
having it cleaned did not help, huh?
no.  what do you do for a living, gary?
how far do we go with this?
not yet.  do not say anything yet.  okay?
i do not think it works if we are somebody else.  you know what i mean?  gary and celeste, jesus, what do they know about anything?
it is your game.  I have never played this before.
it is not a game.  something you play.
well, does it make sense to you?
it does not have to, it is something that happens.  it is like seeing a person you never saw before -- you could be passing on the street -- you look at each other and for a few seconds, there is a kind of recognition.  like you both know something.  but then the next moment the person's gone, and it is too late to do anything about it, but you remember it because it was right there and you let it go, and you think, "what if i had stopped and said something?"  it might happen only a few times in your life.
or once.
oh, god...
i called your room from downstairs.
if i had answered, what were you gonna say?
well, I would say who i was and do you remember me and ask if you would like to meet for a drink.
if i remembered you.  i came looking for you.  i would have said sure, let's do it.  but for all you knew i could show up with a swat team.  why would you trust me?
it would be worth the risk.
you like taking risks.
so do you.
you really wear that suit.
that is not what you were about to say.
remember how talkative you were?  in the trunk?  adele said you do that when you are nervous.
she did, huh.
you kept touching me, feeling my thigh.
yeah, but in a nice way.
i might have smelled like a sewer, but you could tell i was a gentleman. they say john dillinger was a pretty nice guy.
he killed a police officer.
i hear he did not mean to.  the cop fell as dillinger was aiming at his leg and got him through the heart.
you believe that?
why not?
what were you gonna do with me?
i do not know.  i had not worked that part out yet.  all i knew was that i liked you, and i did not want to leave you there, never see you again.
you waved to me in the elevator.
i was not sure you caught that.
i could not believe it.  i was thinking of you by then, a lot, wondering what it would be like if we did meet.  like if we could take a time-out...
really?  i was thinking the same thing. if we could call time and get together for a while.
you know i saw you on the street.
where?
outside adele's.
you were going to see her?
to warn her about chino.
so she did help you?
i do not think we should get into that.
no, you are right.  or buddy.  i will not ask if he is with you or what you are doing here in detroit.  or if you have run into glenn michaels yet.
do not talk like that, okay?  you scare me.
you coming back?
I am just going to the bathroom.
i want you to know something.  i was not looking for just a fuck, if that is what you are thinking.
why are you mad?
or i did it for some kind of kinky thrill.  score with a bank robber the way some women go for rough trade.
what about <i>my</i> motive?  now i can say i fucked a us marshal.  you think i will?
i do not know.
you are not dumb.
i do not know about that.  you can not do three falls and think you have much of a brain.
you getting serious on me now?
I am trying not to.  i just wanna know what is going to happen.
you know.
it took you, what, seven hours to buy a pair of shoes?
i saw karen sisco.
and she saw you?
yes, she did.
so how is that work, a wanted felon socializing with a u.s. marshal?
you know how i felt about her.
did you give her a jump?  if you did i might begin to understand where your head's at.
it was not about getting laid.  i just wanted to know what might have happened if things were different.
you find out?
yeah, i did.
so what is that mean?  that you are disappointed by what you found or you are sorry you robbed all those banks?
i do not know.
glenn, are you trying to steal this car?
jesus, i do not believe it.
another one of those days, huh, nothing seems to go right?
i mean I am not stealing the fucking car.
you are not?
i already stole it.  last week or whenever it was, in west palm.  i can not be stealing it again, can i?
the two guys you were with -- that one, that is not maurice miller, is it? I have seen snoopy's mug shot and that did not look like him.
jesus.  how did you know about snoopy?
glenn, i know your life history, who your friends are, where you have been and now, it looks like, where you are going.  put your hands on the wheel.
you are going to bust me for picking up a car?
for the car, for aiding and abetting a prison escape, and conspiring to do whatever you came here for.
listen, these guys, they are going to be out here any minute looking for me. they are fucking animals.
what is going on, glenn?
nothing.  i just wanna get the fuck outta here.
but i thought the whole thing was your idea?
rippin' off ripley was my idea, but these guys, man, they are into shit i can not handle.
ripley?  you mean the wall street guy?
yeah, the plan was to pick him up at his office tomorrow, take him out to his house in bloomfield hills.  now, i do not give a shit what they do.
and is foley a part of this?
he is supposed to be, but he has not shown up yet, which is a good thing for him.
why is that?
maurice is gonna kill him, try and collect the reward.
but you say he has not shown up, you think he backed out?
i do not know-- he does not exactly confide in me.
gee, i wonder why not.
I am freezing my ass off.
you want to get out of here, run, it will warm you up.
really?
but listen, glenn.  if you are lying to me...
i know, you will find me.  jesus, i believe it.  i keep thinking if you had not driven me to federal court last summer, you would not even know who i am.
if i did not know you, glenn, by tomorrow you would be in jail or dead.  look at it that way.  go on.
who is sitting here?
your homie, glenn.  only thing, he went to the men's about a while ago and never came back.
i think he must have fell in.
i sent these two looking for him, they come back shaking their heads.
reggie, push off and hit, man.  push him off.
we are leaving.
the fuck you talking about?
snoop, if you do not know where glenn is...
look, what you worried about glenn for?  what is he know?
i thought everything.
soon as we leave here.  stop home and pick up what we need and go do it.
give me a minute, talk to buddy.
you got two minutes, that is all.  make up your mind.
i was not asking permission.
they want to go tonight, before glenn gets in any trouble, opens his big mouth.
whatta you wanna do?
you know they gonna set us up.
i get that feeling, yeah.
but you still think you can get the diamonds fore they do?
I will make you a deal.  get out of here. right now.  I will do the job with the snoop, meet you wherever you want and give you half.
half for doing what?
getting me out of glades for starters.
and who watches your back?
that what they are wearing these days to break and enter?
break and enter, shit.  take it and git, how it is done.  do not waste any time.  that is how you do it.
so you have done this before, huh?
shit, yeah.  white boy even got busted for it.  white boy, tell these boys the reason you went down on that burglary that time.
takes the tv, the vcr, some other shit and leaves his wallet on the floor.
that is a wonderful story, snoop.  I am very excited about tonight.
hey.  you learn from doing.
you know how to use one a these?
I have seen 'em used on tv.
there is still time, take me up on my offer.
I am not leaving you alone with these assholes.
not yet.  where is mr. ripley?
i told you, he is not here.
out for the evening?
he is in florida.  palm beach.
when is he due back?
you here all by yourself?
that is right, just me.
where is ripley's safe at, he keep his valuables in.
i do not have any idea.
let's go upstairs, have a look at the man's bedroom.  all right now, you and mr. buddy check the rooms down here. look at the wall behind any pictures hanging on it.  look at the walls in the closets.  the man has a safe, it is going to be up there somewhere.
you ever wear one of these?
i do not ski.
stay with the maid.  I am going to have a look around.
i found a rubber.
white boy, the man's not going to hide no diamonds under the fuckin' mattress.
foley?  that you?
how are you, richard?
jesus christ, what the hell are you doing here?  what is going on?  who is upstairs?
maurice miller, couple of his friends.
maurice?  from lompoc?  good god.
have they got midge up there?
what kinda man lets a woman answer the door, this time a night?
we thought it might be her husband. sometimes he comes and checks up on her.  she told him i was down in florida.
a minute or two, you are going to wish you were.
how do i look, mama?
like a fag.
what do you want from me, jack?  name it.  you want money?
you gonna write me a check?
we will go to my bank.  I will make a withdrawal.
they found the safe.
you remember buddy, do not you, richard?
yeah, hi.  nice house.
good god... they are shooting midge!
siddown, dick.  they are trying to open the safe, not your maid.
a'ight, this time we got to get the motherfuckin' trajectory right...  okay, on three:  one... two...
the combination is three-ten-forty-four.
...the fuck is this...
are they dead?
i can not believe you are still angry with me, jack, after all this time.
I am not angry, richard.  in fact, I am completely relaxed.  thing is, i can not tell if it is the fish that are cooling me out or all those uncut diamonds on the bottom of the tank there.
dumbfuck glenn was right, there is about five million worth in there, would not you say, richard?
five point two.
they look like plain old rocks.
they sure do.
i were you, I would get up and run.
I am not leaving midge.
do not be an asshole, richard.  they are going to kill you.
if that is my fate, so be it.  I am not leaving.  i love her, jack.
good luck, richard.
someone down here?
well, if it is not the ripper hisself.
are those <i>my</i> suits?
where you been hiding, dick?
come <i>on</i>.
shit.
what?
they are going to rape the maid, are not they.
from the looks of those boys, the ripper too.
and then they will kill 'em.
at least.
we made it, did not we?
all you gotta do is get in.
I am going back inside.
I will go with you.
no, you dump the van, meet me at the airport. I will take one of ripley's cars.
jack --
listen, buddy, the shit that is about to go down, you will be on the phone with your sister for a month.  let me do this part alone.
midge.
forget about her.  tell me where the money's at.
foley's got it.
where the fuck is foley?
jack, you do not use a gun, do you?
not until recently.
nervous?
a little.
this kind of setup, you do not have any idea what the fuck you are doing -- do you?
you are right.  so why take a chance--
hello?
we are a few minutes away.  just sit tight, stay outta the house till we get there, understand?
oh-kay...
come on, jack -- don't.
pretend I am somebody else.
you think I would shoot you?
if you don't, one of those guys will.
what are you now, a desperado?  put the guns down.
i told you, I am not going back.
karen, i told you not to--
wait, i know him --okay?
I am sorry, jack, but i can not shoot you.
you just did, for christ sake.
you know what i mean.
you gonna go get him?
it is possible.  why?
i was just thinking... you could have a nice time with him on the plane -- like picking up where your interlude, or whatever you call it, left off. and then throw him in the can.
he knew what he was doing.  nobody forced him to rob banks.
my little girl, the tough babe.
<i>hejira?</i>  what kinda name is that?
islamic.
what is it mean, "no hair"?
the hejira was the flight of mohammed from mecca in 622.
the flight?
the brothers in leavenworth gave me the name.
you were at leavenworth, huh?
for a time.
meaning?
meaning time came, i left.
you busted out?
i prefer to call it an exodus from an undesirable place.
and how long was it before they caught up with you?
that time?
there were others.
yeah.  that was the ninth.
the ninth?
ten, you count the prison hospital in ohio i walked away from.
you must be some kinda walker, henry.
hejira.
and so now you are off to glades.
apparently, yeah.  i was supposed to leave last night with the lady marshal, but for some reason she wanted to wait.
she did, huh.
cheaper i guess, take us both down in one van.
yeah, could be.  or maybe she thought we would have a lot to talk about.
like what?
i do not know.  it is a long way down to florida.
