bandits at 2 o'clock.
power dive!
it is germans!
kill the bastards!
good shooting, danny!
good shooting, rafe!
land of the free...
home of the brave!
there is another one!
did not you say test the limits?
hey, you wanna test my limits, you better line up a couple dozen women on the ground...cause i got no limits in the air!
there are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and irresponsible.
how could it be irresponsible, sir, if you were the first man in the world to do it?
do not get smart with me, son.
never, sir.  i just meant it is dangerous only for the kind of pilot who wants to show off, rather than inspire the other pilots in his unit.  and all you have done for me, sir, working out the transfer, i did it to say thanks.  to honor you, sir. what the french call a "homage."
that is bullshit, son.  but it is really good bullshit.
thank you, sir.
good luck over there mccawley.  i admire your decision.
thank you, sir.
you good-lookin' sumbitch...don't you ever die!
that is your line for tonight, ya know.
what, good-lookin' sumbitch?
no, numbnuts, die.  you get your nurse alone, you look her in the eye, and say, "baby, they are training me for war, and i do not know what will happen.  but if i die tomorrow, i wanna know that we lived all we could tonight."  I have never known it to fail.
how could you do this?
the colonel helped me work it out.
i do not mean how did you do the paperwork, i mean how the hell did you do it without letting me in on it?
I am sorry, danny, but they are only accepting the best pilots.
do not make this a joke, rafe.  you are talking about war, and i know what war does to people.
danny, you know how many times i saw you come to school with a black eye or a busted nose, and could not do a thing about it -- for you, or for your mother... or your father, with his lungs scorched out with mustard gas, and more left of his lungs than there was of his spirit? you have made your sacrifice, danny.  it is time i made mine.
nah, you go on.
i have to talk to evelyn.  and i want you to meet her.
some other time.  i do not feel like a party.
do you have trouble with your boobs in the uniform?
you mean hiding them?
hide them?  on a date with pilots?  I am talking about how you make them show!
we will ask evelyn.  evelyn?  evelyn!
ooo, she is thinking of her date!  come on, you have been dating a pilot.  we want to know what we can expect.
hello, lieutenant.  good to see you.
you too, lieutenant.
oh, this is betty.
nice to meet you, betty.
danny's not coming?
no, he...got some news today.  he will be okay, he just did not feel like coming tonight.
i was hoping to meet him.
he, I am r-red.  red s-strange.
red...strange?
you know the football player, red g- grange?  well the guys called me r-red, cause you know, I am red...and they thought i was strange, so, you know, red g-grange, red str-strange.
but...they called you strange?  because of red grange?  i do not get it.  was red grange strange?
how would i know.
do you always stutter?
only when I am n-n-n-
nervous?
yeah.  but if i have to get something out, i c-can always s-s-s-  siiing!
whatever you are trying to tell me is not good, is it.  or it would not be so hard to say.
the only reason it is hard to say is that i keep thinking i do not have the right to say it.  but I have got to because it is true.  i love you.  that must surprise you.
it surprises me that I am not the only one on this balcony who feels that way.
there is one thing i have to say.  I am going away.
we are all going away.
I am going to the war.  the real war. hitler's taken europe.  the brits are hanging on by their fingernails, and if they lose, there'll be more people killed than anybody can imagine.  and not just there, but here.
but you are in the u.s. army, how could you --
colonel doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the r.a.f.  they need pilots, and we need experience.  i leave tomorrow.
you waited til tonight to tell me?
i had to tell you in person.  because there is something else i need to say.
evelyn...you know the line -- let's make tonight memorable.  what i feel about you makes it impossible for me to say something like that.  if i do not come back, i do not want to saddle you with regret and sadness you will carry the rest of your life.
i do not know if you can choose that, rafe.
maybe not.  but i need you to know.  i love you.  and i will come back.  I will find a way.  and then we will get a chance to know if what i felt the first moment i saw you, and every minute since then, is real.
do one thing for me, before you go.
did not you say you told her not to come?
yeah.
then why are you looking for her?
it is a test.  if i asked her to come and she came, it would not tell me anything. if i tell her not to come, and she comes...then i know she loves me.
on loan from colonel doolittle, is it?
that is me, sir.
good on you, then, rafe mccawley.  we will get you situated in some quarters, and then introduce you to the equipment you will be flying.
if you are patching up bullet holes right here on the runway, maybe we should skip the housekeeping and get right to the planes.
are all the yanks as anxious as you are to get yourself killed, lieutenant?
not anxious to die, sir, anxious to matter.
so you join us, admiral.  some of us thought your education at an american university would make you too weak to fight the americans.
if knowledge of opponents and careful calculation of danger is taken as weakness then i have misunderstood what it means to be japanese.
the time has come to strike!  or to sit and let the americans cut off our oil and our future.  i know what you whisper to the others, yamamoto -- that the americans are strong.  yet look at their leader.
you have something to say, yamamoto?
the council knows i have opposed fighting the americans.  no matter how great our resolve, they have resources beyond ours. if we must go to war, there is only one way -- deal them a blow from which it will take them years to recover.  in that time we can conquer all of the pacific, and they will have no choice but to ask for peace.
you see us as capable of such a blow?
the americans themselves have made it possible.  we will annihilate them in a single attack -- at pearl harbor.
hey.  you.  mr. coma.
where is that lizard?
what lizard?
the one that slept in my mouth last night.
what the hell happened to you guys?
ever hear of mai-tai's?  comes in a big...pot.  like...like...
a m-missionary?
no, like...
i th-think I am going to like it here.
you guys are new?
yeah.
mai-tai's.  i got this to tell ya, about mai-tai's.
hey!  what is this, the planes all bunched up like that?
the brass is afraid of sabotage.  this makes 'em easier to protect -- and easier to service.
what about easier to hit in an air raid?
who is going to to that?  japan is four thousand miles away.  so you guys just arrived, huh?
yeah.
we got a saying here.  a-low-ha!
rafe's girl, evelyn?
you guys know her?!  i got to have an intro!  man, I would like to --
shit, he is puking on my feet!
well, you p-puked on his feet.
yeah, but he was wearing shoes!
uncharged torpedoes have different balance.
i have arranged a live fire drill -- with your permission.
are you sure they are here?
if evelyn's here, the rest are here!
what is it with red?  I have never seen him this way.
he is been like that all day.  hey danny, you coming?
now listen, it is hands off billy.  i mean, you can put your hands on him if you want to, but then my hands will break yours.
he was that good?
no, i was.
leapin' jesus!
the struts are loose, the hydraulics are leaking, and the electrical system's shorting out in the cockpit.
well which of those three ya want fixed?
all of 'em.
if ye'd wanted a bloody cadillac ya should'a stayed in the bloody states!
and if you do not give me a plane that can handle combat, you better start learning to speak german.
fook ya!
learn english, then!
fook ya dooble!
i have'na been able ta --
crank her!
i wish she could forget him.
you do not forget love, honey.  not ever.
'scuse me, 'mam.  all the ship's doctors is golfing, and i could not find nobody to look at this.
our doctor's gone too.
sorry to trouble you.
wait, let me look at that... you better come in here.
how did you get this?
boxin'.
win?
yes'm.
what is your name?
dorie miller, 'mam.
I am evelyn.  and I am just a nurse.  but I am not playing golf, and that cut needs sewing, or else it is going to make a big lumpy scar.  whatta ya say?
how often you fight like this?
every other sunday.  I am heavyweight champion of the west virginia.
what do you get for winning?
respect.
thank you, 'mam.
tell me something, dorie.  a man as big as you -- and smart too, you knew where to come when your ship could not help -- do you still have to fight with your fists to get respect?
i left my mama and joined the navy to be a man.  they made me a cook -- and not even that, really -- i clean up after the other sailors eat.  i shine the officer's shoes.  in two years, they have never even let me fire a gun.
you take care, dorie.
you too, 'mam.
lieutenant... I am danny walker.  I am rafe mccawley's best friend.
were.  is not that what you mean?  were. because he is dead, is not he?  and that is why you have come.
before rafe left, he asked me to be the one to tell you, if it happened.
he told me about you.  that he had no other friend like you.
rafe's folks had a crop dusting business, owned their own planes.  real straight, frugal.  my father was the town drunk. went to sleep one night on the railroad tracks and was still there when the dawn express came along.  rafe and i were the only ones at the funeral.  he took me back to his house, and i never left.
you were more like brothers.
i taught him to drink beer.  he taught me how to fly.
he said you are the only one he ever saw who was better in the air than him.
...he said that?
everything real except the fact that no one is shooting back at us.
if we achieve surprise, they will offer little resistance.
set up teams of radio operators to send out messages the americans will intercept, concerning every potential american target in the pacific.  include hawaii -- the clutter will be more confusing that way.
brilliant, admiral.
a brilliant man would find a way not to fight a war.
you are walker, right?
yes sir.
that was a nice little stunt you pulled, buzzing the base.
you liked that?
oh yeah.  i liked it so much I am cutting you out of the squadron.
sir?
i do not buy that hot dog shit.  so you and your buddies are going to transfer your planes up to haleiwa.
hale-what?
you will love it.  no base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
sir, i --
too late for apologies, walker.
i was not going to apologize, sir.  i was just going to say it was worth it to feel like a real pilot again, even if it was only for five seconds.
how is everything?
we got some soldiers in traction from a jeep accident, but it is quiet.  except for the occasional fighter plane buzzing us.
that might not have been such a good idea.  they are making us fly out of a half-paved airfield.  the real punishment is that i will not be back to the barracks till it is too late for dinner or coffee. so i guess it is goodbye for awhile.
i was just thinking that war is a series of goodbyes.  do you think that is why we are meeting.  to help us say goodbye to rafe?
i swore not to talk about him tonight, but there is all this stuff i think i ought to tell you, that he did not get a chance to.  rafe was...he was lonely.  he had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty.  the week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring.
sorry.
he told me he did not want to leave me with regret.  now that is all i have.
hey, have you seen pearl harbor at night?
well...sure.
from the air?
so beautiful!
hang on.
i sent telegrams, i guess the military traffic held them up.
why were you sitting here, instead of...
i saw you, i could not go in, i...just stood there wondering if you knew.  you looked...sad, and i had to sit down a minute.
how did you?...
...survive?  i jumped in a patch of fog, and nobody could see me.  i hit the water hard.  and it was so...cold.
i called my folks, then colonel doolittle.  the colonel sent a man to pick me up.  they wanted to debrief me. i told the colonel i needed to see somebody first, and he had a supply flight heading out in an hour.  I have done a lot of talking.  you have not said anything.
I am just...so amazed, so glad to know that you are okay.  you are okay, are not you?
nothing that will not heal.  i guess.
it is been...so different, being so sure you were dead.
I am so sorry for what you must have gone through, but I am back.
it is all right.  danny always said i see things with my emotions instead of my eyes.
it is not your fault, rafe.  the letter i wrote you, they --
do not worry about that.  guys away from home, lonely, good-hearted women try to cheer them up.
it is not that i did not mean everything i wrote.  it is just that -- i thought you were dead.  and now --
you would always go sit in a plane whenever you were upset.
upset?  why should i be upset?
let's go get a drink.  unless you are scared to talk about it.
sorry.
why be sorry?  that is what you feel, it is better to come out with it.
i did not mean it.
sure you did.  so come on.  say what you think.
waitress!  four beers!
you do not wanna put beer over mai-tai.
if you can not keep up, do not drink yours.
we gotta face some facts here.
what facts are those?
i understand how it could happen.  i know why any guy would love her.  and i can not blame you that it happened.  you thought i was dead, she was grieving, you were trying to help her.
i was grieving too.
yeah, right.  anyway, you did not know.
so what are you saying?
I am saying now you do know.  so it is time for you to fuck off.
you left her.  how is that for a fact?
how is this for a fact?  i loved her first.
how come you are not pukin'?
i guess I am used to it.  I have felt like throwing up every minute since you got back.
do not blame her, rafe.  it is not like you are thinking.
fuck you.
she loves you.  i know that.  and part of what she loves in me is how much of you she sees in me.
she said i was so much like you.  i said, no, I am not.  I am like i am because of you, but I am not you, not as good as you. everybody else saw me as a loser with a big chip on his shoulder.  but you saw the better part of me, the part of me that could be like you, and changed me. you made me who i am.
how sweet.  is that when you put the move on her?
we have achieved surprise, but their carriers are not in port.  i do not like this.
we have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, admiral.
we must go ahead.  this is our moment.
get me into a plane!
come on!
where are we going?
auxiliary field at haleiwa, ten miles north of here.
what is there?
six p-40's.
they ready, earl?
they will all fly, but -- oh, shit...
this am not a little feud, earl, it is world war two!
they are coming around for another pass. you got extra weapons and ammo?
cock-suckin' right i do!!  in the gun lockers!
you guys get those!  earl, rafe, come with me!
earl!  you said the planes were ready but -- but what?
of the four left, only one is full of fuel.
danny, i do not like this fuckin' guy.
anthony, red, stay with the guns!  coma, you cover the cannons!  joe, theo, come with us!  earl, you get on the radio! we are going to fight these fuckers.
it is tight.
tighter 'n a bulls ass in fly season. do not hit the barn.
they are all over us!
bet they do not dust crops in japan.
you hear my okay?
yeah.  so you can call me if you need help.
i got a half a tank.  you?
little less.
land of the free.
home of the brave.
I am out of ammo!
I am out of fuel!
who the fuck taught you to fly?
he did.
we have achieved complete surprise!  the first wave is returning, the second is attacking now, and we have lost only a few planes.  we can launch a third wave, admiral.
the second wave has not returned.  and we have no idea where their carriers are. what is the damage report?
if we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the pacific for at least a year!
and if we fail, and lose our carriers, we destroy our ability to fight them at all.  as soon as the second wave returns, we will withdraw.
what else can we do?
there is nothing you can do here, they will die or they won't, we just --
what if the japanese did invade?
we have done studies.  we are confident we would turn them back eventually...after they would gotten as far as chicago.
rafe --
i need to tell you something.  i did not know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. that you have not lived and loved enough. i did not understand.  forgive me.
rafe... no.  you forgive me.
of course i forgive you.  i know what you feel for danny is real.  and your choice is your choice.
that is what i have to tell you, rafe.  it was not a choice.  it --
i heard what you did.
we can explain, colonel.
explain what?
is that the good new, sir, or --
you are just about the only pilots in the army with actual combat experience, so you are volunteering for a mission I have been ordered to put together.  do you know what top secret is?
well sure, colonel --
top secret means you help me pick the other pilots, train, and go -- without knowing where you are going until it is too late.
sorry you are going to die -- cause I am going to make it.
what color flowers you want me to bring to your funeral?
in flight school you qualified in single and in multi-engine planes.  you will be flying multi-engines here.
bombers.
i want to introduce a couple of people. doc white is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can not spare the weight of an extra man.
i thought I would made it clear, I am not just putting this mission together -- I am leading it myself.
i take it back, about the flowers.  we are all going to die.
fun today.  like old times.
danny, what the hell are you trying to do out there?
what do you mean?  I am just doing what we have always done.
no.  you are trying to beat me.
we have always tried to beat each other.
bullshit.  we have played with each other, pushed each other.  this is different. like you want to prove that you are better than me.  who is that for -- evelyn?
maybe just trying to measure up.
what is between you and her is between you and her.  but here's what is between you and me.  everybody has a hero, danny. and you are mine.
what?...
they were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along.  i wrote colonel doolittle, and told him i needed to see you before you go.
it must of been a convincing letter.
it was.  i could not have you go away, wherever it is...to war...without knowing something.  you think i made a choice, of danny over you.  i didn't.  i did not have a choice.  I am pregnant.
and where is the secret base, sir?  the one we t-takeoff from.
the navy will get us to within 400 miles of the japanese coast.  we will launch off the carriers from there.
c-colonel, we been p-practicing takeoff's, but i am not sure we can land on these carriers d-decks.
we will not have the fuel to get back to the carriers; they will turn and run back to hawaii the minute we are airborne.
then wh-where do we land?
i have a phrase i want you all to memorize:  "lushu hoo megwa fugi."  it means "i am an american."  in chinese.
it is shorter than our practice runway.
they will turn the ship into the wind before we launch.  that will help.
we will be loaded with 2,000 pounds of bombs and 1,500 pounds of fuel.  i got another chinese phrase for doolittle. "mug wump rickshaw mushu pork."  it means "who the fuck thought up this shit?"
now we have fifteen requests for the emperor's palace...and one for tokyo baseball stadium.
i d-don't think japs ought'a be allowed to p-play baseball.
I would like to bomb their emperor too.  but i think that would just piss 'em off.  the idea here, gentlemen, is not revenge. we are here to prove to them that they are neither invincible nor superior.  so let's try this again.  military targets only.
colonel, to f-fight you need strategy. to have strategy, ya gotta practice.  and to practice it, ya gotta play --
no baseball diamonds, red.
y-yes sir.
it is not getting any longer.
longer?  it is getting shorter.
listen you guys.  I am the first plane -- then mccawley, walker, the rest of you. I will have the shortest run.  if i do not make it, you do not go.
colonel...we're all going.  whether you make it or not.
i know.
broomsticks instead of tail guns.
we will get separated over the target, but you and i will rendezvous for the run to china.  I am on your wing.
and I am on yours.  land of the free.
home of the brave.
we have bombed tokyo, mr. president. radio tokyo interrupted it is own broadcast to make the announcement.
have the planes made it to china?
there've been some complications, sir. the chinese did not receive our request for homing beacons until is was too late to get them set.  and the planes had to take off so early they may lack fuel to make the mainland anyway.
so those brave men are flying blind and running out of fuel.
the chinese are sending out search parties to try to find the crews before the jap patrols do, if any of the planes make it.
god help them.
danny...
i can not make it.
yes you can.
