it is gorgeous!
am i really gonna have my own room?
yes.
yaay!
yes, but the rope might be--
yaay!
let her go. it is cool.
louis, the house is beautiful.
and buckaroo banzai.
come on--let's parole 'em.
hurrts! it hurrrrts!
anyone who can scream that loud is not ready for intensive care just yet-- looks like she just skinned her knee.
gage's gone!
jesus, the road!
thank you. thank you so much.
yes--thanks. I am louis creed.
jud crandall. i live just across the road.
I am rachel. thanks again for saving the wandering minstrel boy, here.
no harm, no foul. but you want to watch out for that road. those damn trucks go back and forth all day and most of the night.
who might you be, little miss?
I am ellen creed and i live at 642 alden lane, dearborn, michigan.  at least, i used to.
and now you live on route 9 in ludlow, and your dad's going to be the new doctor up to the college, i hear, and i think you are going to be just as happy as a clam here, ellen creed.
excuse me, mr. crandall--i've got to change this kid. it is nice to meet you.
same here. come over and visit when you get the chance.
no-i guess not.
yayyy!
hey--they actually found the place!
movin' in's mighty thirsty work. i usually sit out on my porch of an evening and pour a couple of beers over m'dinner. come on over and join me, if you want.
well, maybe i----
the movers--
yes--i know. this path, louis? where does it go?
i do not have the slightest idea. when i saw the house, this field was under four feet of snow.
you are not really going over to have a beer with that old guy, are you?
well, I have got a million questions about the area, and---
---and you will end up doing a free consultation on his arthritis or urinary problems and---
did you see his shirt?
you need a glass?
not at all.
good for you.
god, that is fine.
am not it just? the man who invented beer, louis, that man was having a prime day for himself.
what were you listening to?
allman brothers.
what?
the eat a peach album. god, they were good before drugs and bad luck caught up with them. listen to this, louis.
nice.
i like rock and roll. no...i guess that is too mild. i love it. since my ears started to die out on me, it is the only music i can really hear. and since my wife died...i dunno, some- times a little rock and roll fills up night. not always, but sometimes.  one more time--welcome to ludlow. hope your time here will be a happy one.
the one that goes into the woods--sure.
that road--and those orinco trucks-- are the two main reasons it is there.
what is at the end of it?
my god!
it is beautiful!
you folks ready to go on?
sure.
but where are we going, mr. crandall?
you will see soon enough, hon.
who owns the woods up ahead? paper companies?
nope. the micmac indians. what is up ahead is all that is left of their tribal lands.
not yet...how much further is it?
aw, you will be okay. less than a mile.
how can you call it a good thing? a graveyard for pets killed in the road! built and maintained by broken- hearted children!
well, but missus creed! it am not quite that way, deah!
i think it is rather extraordinary.
extraordinarily morbid, maybe.
have you got a death-wish, ellen?
well, i thought it was safe--
best never to go climbing on old blowdowns like this, ellie--sometimes they bite.
bite?
ayuh.
i want to look around, daddy-- may i?
for a little while.
i can hardly read these.
ayuh--they get older as you go toward the middle.  pete lavasseur's dog is buried there...  the stoppard boys' racing pigeon that missus cowley's cat got...and i think that is the cat himself right there, although it is been so many years i can not tell for sure.  missy ellen! come over here just a minute!
do you know what this place is, ellie? oh, i know you know it is a boneyard, but a bone am not nothing and even a whole pile of 'em do not amount to much. do you know what a graveyard really is?
well...i guess not.
it is a place where the dead speak, missy.
no--not right out loud. their stones speak...or their markers. even if the marker am not nothing but a tin can someone wrote on with a magic marker, it speaks. am not that so, louis?
i think it is so, ellie.
what if you can not read what is written on there anymore?
well, it still says some animal got laid down here after, do not it?
yes--
and that someone cared enough about that animal to mark the spot.
to remember.
my wife is not crazy about cemeteries of any kind. as you may have noticed.
me neither. but i believe in knowing your enemy.
that is what i think. i heard missy dandridge tell mom when church was fixed he would not cross the road so much.
well, it is always better to take precautions--but I am sure church will be all right, honey...
in the end he is going to croak, is not he?
lovey...church might be still alive when you are in a high school...and that is a very long time.
it does not seem long to me. it seems short. i think the whole thing about pets dying s-s-sucks!
she is finally asleep.
she was a little over-excited, that is all. poor kid.
it was that place. that creepy cemetery up in the woods. whatever disease the kids in this town have got, i do not want ellie to catch it.
jesus, rachel, what is got into you?
do you think i did not hear her tonight, crying as if her heart would break? here she is thinking church is going to die.
good god! where did you hear that?
missy dandridge. and she says it is a operation!
honey, church will be fine.
but what if he dies and has to go to the pet sematary?
do not be silly. church is not going to die.
according to what mr. crandall says, the road's a lot more dangerous than the operation. church will be just the same. well--almost the same--and we will not have to worry about him getting turned into catburgers by one of those damn orinco trucks.
that is enough of that kind of talk!
i just said--
i know what you just said. ellie, clear your place.
you will be fine, ellie. now you can be excused. go and wash your face.
and church will be fine.
well, honey...you know that...
do not shilly-shally, louis. give the little girl her promise.
thank you, louis.
oh, you are welcome. only if some- thing should go wrong while he is under the gas--it's a one-in-a-thousand shot, but it happens--you explain to her.
i want to wake up. i want to wake up, that is all. i--
the door must not be opened. the barrier must not be crossed. do not go on, doc. no matter how much you feel you have to. there is more power here than you know.
please, i want to wake up. leave me alone. it is not my fault you died; you were as good as dead when they brought you in--
the power of this place is old and always restless. sometimes the dead do more than speak. remember, doc.
leave me alone!
remember.
getting there.
i got eggs down here!
good d--
did you tell me rachel took the kids back to chicago for a few days?
for ellie's birthday, yes. i did not go because her old man thinks I am a shit and the feeling is heartily re- ciprocated...they'll be back tomorrow night. jud, what is this about?
well, there is a dead cat over here on the edge of my lawn, louis. i think it might be your daughter's.
church? oh. oh, jesus.
it is church.
I am sorry. at least it do not look like he suffered.
ellie will, though. she will suffer plenty.
loved that cat pretty well, did not she?
yes.
bagged cat. what a mess.
you going to bury him in the pet sematary?
going to tell ellie?
i do not know.
seems like you told me about a promise you made--
no need to apologize.
maybe when they call I will just tell ellie i have not seen the damn cat around. you know?
jud, this is crazy. it is going to be almost dark before we get back.
it is going to be dark before we even get where we are going, louis. but we can do it...and we are going to.
but--
does she love the cat?
yes, but--
then come on.
what say, louis?
nothing.  do we plant him on the outer circle or start a new one?
we are still not where we are going.
what do you mean?
the place we are going is on the other side of that.
we can not climb over that. we will break our necks!
no. we won't. i have climbed it a time or two before, and i know all the places to step. just follow me...move easy...don't look down...and do not stop. if you stop, you will crash through for sure.
I am not climbing that.
give me the cat. I will take care of it myself.
no, you should not have stopped. but you got away with it. important thing is are you sure you are all right?
yes.  where are we going, jud?
you will see before long. let's go.
micmacs used to call it little god swamp.
is there quicksand?
ayuh.
there is a lot of funny things down this way, louis.
you are telling me.
it is funny, all right.
just do not stop, louis. you do not ever want to stop down here in little god.  and you do not ever want to look behind you, whatever you hear.
almost there, louis.
you keep saying that.
this time i mean it.
this was their burying ground, louis.
whose burying ground?
the micmac indians. i brought you here to bury ellen's cat.
why? for god's sake, why?
i had my reasons, louis. we will talk later. all right?
i guess so...but...
you want to rest a bit before you start?
no, I am okay. will i really be able to dig him a grave? the soil looks thin.
soil's thin, all right. but you will manage.
what are those for?
your cairn.
does not look like they last long.
do not worry about that.
jud, why am i doing all this?
because it is right.
but--
no buts! accept what is done, louis. what we done was right. another time it might not be, but tonight it was... at least i hope to christ it was. now you make your call...but not a word about tonight.
yeah, i know...how are things out there in chicagoland?
fine...except when mom was airing gage's diaper rash, he walked away and got into grampa's study and pooped in grampa's favorite chair.
i most generally do not start before noon, but this looks like an exception.
what did we do, jud?
why, saved a little girl from being unhappy...that's all. drink up, louis!
i tried to tell myself i buried him alive. you know--edgar allan poe meets felix the cat. but...
would not wash?
no. I am a doctor. i know death when i see it, and church was dead. he smells horrible and he uses his claws, but he is alive...and i feel like I am going crazy. it was that place, was not it?
ayuh. it was the rag-man told me about the place--stanley bouchard. us kids just called him stanny b. he was half micmac himself.
can i have another one?
i guess it would not hurt.
they buried their dead and for a long time their dead stayed buried. then something happened. half the tribe died in a season. the rest moved on. they said a wendigo had soured the ground.
wendigo?
spirit of the north country. not a good spirit. wendigos are great liars and tricksters, according to the stories. and if one touches you...
you and this old indian rag-man--
stanny b. did for me what i did for you last night, louis. only i was not alone when spot came back.
well, she was a little upset at first, and that is why i thought you ought to hold your peace when you talked to your people last night...you did, did not you, louis?
yes.
why, then, things should be fine.
a little upset is all she was? because I will tell you, jud, my brains feel a little like a nuclear reactor on the edge of a meltdown.
she got used to the idea. spot lived another four years. he died peacefully in the night that second time, and i buried him in the pet sematary...where his bones still lie.
a man does not always know why he does things, louis. i think i did it because your daughter am not ready for her favorite pet to die.
what?
ellie's a little scared of death. and the main reason ellie's that way is because your wife is a lot scared of death. now you just go ahead and tell me I am wrong.
the door must not be opened. the barrier must not be crossed.
you do not understand--
yes...i guess so. he was sleeping on the front porch when i left.
cause i had a bad dream about him. i dreamed he got hit by a car and you and mr. crandall buried him in the pet sematary.
is he really all right?
yes.
because you promised.
i know.
I have noticed it, too. I will cough up the money, ellen.
i hate that smell.
they do it to honor the dead, ellen.
is that right, dad?
rachel not feeling well?
well...a touch of the flu...
she is in bed. she was throwing up. ever since mrs. rogers called and said missy--
that is enough, ellen.
out of the mouths of babes, louis.
this babe has said enough.
poor missy. god, i was sorry to hear. i remember when she was no older'n ellen there, walking down to the store with her raggedy anne doll draggin' behind her in the dust. i do not know why god takes someone like her, who should have a bunch of years still in front of them, and lets an old shit like me just go on and on.
my father used to have a saying, jud-- "god sees the truth, but waits."
ayuh...how is your cat, louis?
it is ellie's cat.
nope. he is your cat now.
ellie? what is wrong?
no more chocolate chip cookies.
huh?
missy made the best chocolate chip cookies in the world--even mom said so. now there will not be any more because she is going to be dead forever!
what is up, sugar?
daddy, do you think missy dandridge went to heaven?
at school michael mcdowell said she was gonna fry in hell. michael mcdowell says all sewersides fry in hell.
well, i think michael mcdowell is so full of shit he probably squeaks when he walks, my dear.
but do not you dare say that.
i won't...is missy in heaven, do you think?
i do not know, honey. different people believe all sorts of different things happen to us when we die. some believe in heaven or hell. some think we are born again as little children--
sure, carnation. like in that movie you rented, audrey rose.
well, it is actually reincarnation, but you get the idea. and some people think we just wink out...like a candle flame when the wind blows hard.
do you believe that?
i think we go on. I am not sure what happens after we die, but yeah-- i have faith in that.
you believe in it.
oh, faith's a little more than just believing.
i do not get it.
well, here we are, sitting in my chair. do you think my chair will be here tomorrow?
yeah, sure.
then you have faith in that. but we do not know it will be; after all, some crazed chair-burglar might break in while we are away and steal it, right?
I am not tired!
I am sure you are not.
then why do i have to go to bed?
because your mother and i need the rest, sugar. now buzz.
i heard you tonight.
i thought maybe you did. i know you do not approve of the subject being raised--
that is not true. the subject scares me. because of zelda.
I am sorry i could not go with you to missy's funeral. and that i blew up when we went to that silly animal graveyard.
that is forgotten.
not by me, it isn't. i know how badly i acted, how unfair i was. it is just that i..you know.
yes, i guess i do.
I am going to try to do better.
you are doing fine.
i want to fly it! can i fly it now, mommy!
in a minute, hon. let gage finish his turn.
your father-in-law packs a wallop, for an old guy. he and his wife gone back to chicago?
no...squatting out there at the holiday inn like a couple of vultures. he really thinks rachel's going to go back with them. her and ellie.
louis--
ellie...god does not do things like that. i know you loved y'brother, but--
he can if he wants to. he can do anything, just like inspector gadget on tv. but i have to keep things ready for him, that is what i think. I have got his picture and I am going to sit in his chair--
ellie--
and I am going to eat his breakfast cereal, too, even though it tastes like boogers. and...and...
jud, i buried my son today and I am very tired. i wonder if we could just--
you are thinking of things best not thought of, louis.
I am thinking about going to bed.
--but i think the thought has crossed your mind.
shit! look at this mess!
ayuh--it's a mess, all right.
i know the micmacs thought it was a holy place...and then they thought it was a cursed place. that is why they moved on.
because something called a wendigo soured the ground.
and because the dead walked.
I will bite--what's the bottom of the truth, jud?
why...that sometimes dead is better. that is all. sometimes dead is better.
you better get going, hon.
oh louis, i just do not know about this--
i told you last night--this can be the start of patching things up with your folks. if something good does not come of gage's death, i think I will go crazy.
louis, are you sure?
I am sure.
be good to your mother, darlin'. she needs you.
come with us, daddy. please come with us!
I will be there in three days--four at the most. I have got to get the electricity shut off and square things with your school so the truant officer am not after you, and--
do you swear?
i swear.
paxcow says it is almost too late!
ellie...ellie...what...
paxcow says it is almost too late! we have to go back! paxcow says it is almost too late!
I will tell you where the ground is sour--the ground in my heart is sour. let me tell you something else, vic-baby: wrong is wrong.
timmy baterman. that was wrong.
do not talk like an asshole even if you are just a bit of underdone potato or a blot of mustard.
paxcow says daddy's going to do something really bad. he--
who is this paxcow? is he like the boogeyman?
he is a ghost. but he is a good ghost.
there are no ghosts, ellie. i want you to go to sleep and forget all this nonsense.
will you at least call and make sure daddy's okay?
of course i will.
no--but if he drops by, I will tell him to call you.
jud, do you remember the name of the student that died on louis's first day at work? the one that was hit by a car?
was it pascow?
ayuh, i think 'twas. if i see louis come home before i go to bed, I will tell him to--
do not bother. I am coming home.
please hurry.
i will. come and kiss me.
