your honor, since rockwell corp. began construction, the surrounding residential neighborhood has been enshrouded in a cloud of foul-smelling, germ-carrying, pestilent dust. my client is being forced to breathe known carcinogens daily! other residents are coming forth on a daily basis to add their voices of outrage!
your honor, i submit there were no complaints until counselor began knocking on doors, drumming up business. and the dust, which counselor refers to, has appeared on only three occasions. each time it has been examined and the results...
innocuous?
defined by webster's as harmless.
i know what it means. your honor, imagine how the children in this neighborhood have been made to feel. the pounding of construction ringing in their ears as this skyscraper, a tribute to mankind's greed, grows daily, casting an ominous shadow over their lives, filling them with dread even as they are surrounded in a black, toxic fog, blocking out the sun while poisoning their lungs! and counselor calls it harmless?!
client of yours?
funny.
rach.
I am late, i have to pick up amy from her afterschool but i want to talk to you about that hansen thing.
catch me later, I will be here. and tell amy, i love her painting, it is on my wall.
hello?
hi, mom. it is me.
andy! this is a nice surprise. how are you, hon?
I am fine.
what is dr. gillman say?
hold on, mom.  there is no way my client will go along with that.
gillman says I am fine. my blood work is excellent. t-cells are up. just a sec ...  yes, i think that would alleviate most of our concerns.  my platelets look good too.
are you on one of those conference calls? i hate when you put me on hold.
are we interrupting, andy?
in a word, bob...
charles is right behind me.
it is good to be king, hey charles?
kings are out of fashion. I would rather be thought of as a benevolent tyrant.  it is an anti-trust action.
it is, and it isn't, charles. macrosystem's new software copies all the best-known elements of kronos' spreadsheet program. if they are allowed to sell it, kronos will get undersold right out of business. for me, the legal principle, involved is copyright infringement.
bearing in mind that bill wright, the chairman of macrosystems, is a close, personal friend of mine... which side of this mess would you desire to be on, andy? and do not allow my very tight, personal relationship with bill to influence your answer in any way.
why, beckett?
because they deserve to, walter.
if macrosystems wins, an energetic, young company will be destroyed, five thousand americans will be out of work. moreover, the laws of copyright and anti-trust were enacted to prevent exactly the kind of bullshit macrosystems is trying to pull.
andy, do you know who reps kronos inc.?
bailey, brackman.
yes!
you will have to get right on it, andy, we are up against the statute of limitations.
thanks, walter.
what is that on your forehead, pal?
whacked with a racquetball.  i appreciate your faith in my abilities.
thanks, charles.
no sweat, buddy.
thanks, you guys.
yeah. thanks, guys.
are not you giving an exam?
i said, do not worry about it.
i almost did not make it to the bathroom, miguel. i almost lost control right in front of everybody.
so what? it is nothing to be ashamed of. you have nothing to be ashamed of, okay?
mr. beckett, I am sorry...
about my blood work?
we are waiting...
... meanwhile, I would like to prepare you for a colonoscopy, so we can take a look inside.
sounds delightful.
this is my partner. we keep records of hospital visits. nothing personal.
dr. klenstein.  it is not a pleasant procedure, but if the ks is causing the diarrhea, we ought to know right away.
it could be parasites, an infection...
a reaction to azt...
I am trying to help your "partner." you are not a member of his immediate family, i could have you removed from the er.
he is upset, he is sorry.
do not apologize for me.
he is not sorry, okay, fine.  why do not we see what we find out from the blood work? I will work on getting a specimen, I am sure hospital food could help in that direction. maybe, by then, we will hear from my doctor, and we will go from there. okay? everybody happy?
that is the third time. i better call the office.  would you relax, please?
i am relaxed.
why are you getting dressed?
you are not going to like this. please try to smile...
thanks for leaving school, and coming here, and...  i will be back. an hour, tops.
you are going to the office?!
you are not smiling.
you are leaving the hospital? you are going into the office looking like that? are you insane?
one hour!
drew!
i promise!
i thought i was supposed to be covering for you.  god, andy, you look awful.
fucking word processing lost my kronos complaint. which must be filed by fucking five o'clock! if it is late, there is no case...  every problem has a solution.
what can i do?
get down to word processing. help jamey look.
jesus.
i do not know what to do, bob.
you will never find it in the dark.
what in god's name... ?
bob...
what is wrong with your face?
what is wrong with my face? you want to know what is wrong with my face? I have got a skin condition. next question, bob? no more questions? fine. now can you help me find the complaint?
allright. calm down.
sorry...
what was the file name?
k-r-o-one.
maybe you mistyped the name when you were saving it. we will try combinations of those letters...
you are right, i probably just misfiled...
andy?
you load the film... ? no, on this side... or this side? do not move the baby!
give me the camera, joe.
right.
why did not you cross at the crosswalk?
why should i?
yeah. do i have a case?
of course you have a case! now, i want you to go with my assistant, iris, and fill out some forms. she will tell you about our fee arrangement.  mrs. finley? any back pain since the accident? dizziness? nightmares?
now that you mention it...
tell iris all about it.  take good care of mrs. finley, iris.  beckett, come in.
jesus christ, what happened to you?
i have aids.
whoa-oh!  sorry, i...
it is okay. can i sit down?
uh, yeah.
new baby?
one week old.
congratulations.
little baby girl.
kids are great.
thanks, beckett. I am real excited about it.  what can i do for you?
i was fired by wyant wheeler. i plan to bring a wrongful termination suit against charles wheeler and his partners.
you want to sue wyant wheeler hellerman tetlow and brown?
correct. I am seeking representation.
continue.
i misplaced an important complaint. that is their story. want to hear mine?
how many lawyers did you go to, before you called me?
nine.
continue.
i was diagnosed with aids eight months ago. during a bout of pneumonia. i recovered quickly and was back at work in ten days. since i was doing so well on the azt, we decided against telling anyone about it.
we?
my lover and i.
your... lover?
miguel alvarez. we have lived together for nine years.
continue.
i dove back into work, everything was fine. until the lesions started...
hell, they are staring. what is that shit on your face?
makeup.
thanks for coming in.
of course.
andy. before we begin, I would just like to say: everyone in this room is your friend.
you are in trouble.
i know that, charles.
more than your friend. family.
big trouble.
charles, i must apologize again, for the kronos mishap.  it was a scary few minutes around here. wow. but thank god, the complaint was found. and no damage was done.
this time. what about next time?
there will not be a next time, i guarantee it.
andy. it seems that something has come over you, lately: a kind of... stupor, a fogginess, a lack of focus... earth to andy. anybody home?
helloooo...
perhaps... you are right. I have certainly been busy. with the kronos complaint, a preliminary injunction hearing and the saunders trial all falling at the same time...
some people think you have an attitude problem, beckett.
really? who thinks that, sir?
we have been talking it over, andy. your future that is... we feel that, because we respect you so much, we have to be honest with you.
honesty is always best.
do you really think so, andy?
yes, bob, i do.  excuse me? am i being fired?
let's put it this way, andy: your place in the future of this firm is no longer secure.
in a word, yes.
we do not think it is fair to keep you here, where your future is limited. but we wish you luck, andy, all the luck in the world.
and i hate to rush you out of here, but...
but he is got lots of other people's lives to ruin...
... we have got a committee meeting.
excuse me, charles. with all due respect... this is... preposterous! it does not make any sense, it sounds as if we are talking about someone else. pardon the lack of humility, but I have had the distinct impression i was kind of... one of the rising stars around here. and i feel that was not just my imagination. and i also think i deserve to know what is really going on here, charles.
oh, you are right, beckett, you do not have an attitude problem.
take it easy, walter.
if you would lost confidence in me, why did you give me the kronos suit?
i hoped the challenge would improve your performance. you could say it was a carrot.
a carrot?!
i buy that.
as in, the vegetable?
the law says people with disabilities cannot be terminated, so long as they can perform the duties required by their position...
okay, okay... they discover you have this horrible, disgusting, terminal illness, and they panic, for any number of perfectly valid reasons. they are frightened for themselves, their families... maybe it is the homo angle. maybe they do not want to rub elbows with someone who is just popped out of the closet with a terminal case of acne. and how do they explain your status to the client for chrissake?
joe, from the day i arrived to the day they fired me, i performed consistently, thoroughly and with absolute excellence. and if they had not fired me, that is what I would be doing today.
okay... they want you out. it is against the law to fire you for having aids, so they make you look like a fuck up. which leads us to the mysterious, lost file.
they sabotaged me.
i knew you were going to say that. i do not buy it, and i do not see a case.
look. i know i have a case. if you do not want to take it for personal reasons...
correct. i don't.
thanks for your time.
beckett? I am sorry about... what is happened to you. it is a fucking kick in the head.
do not send flowers, joe. I am not dead yet.
you had contact with someone who has aids, and you are worried.
I am not worried. what are you doing?
the hiv virus can only be transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, namely blood and semen.
right.
leave that.
yeah, but doc, is not it true they keep finding out new things about this disease? so you tell me, today, there is no danger, and i go home, and i hold my baby, and six months from now i hear on the news: "whoops! we were wrong.' you can carry it on your clothes, your skin, and now I have got to worry about my kid. what are you doing?
we are going to draw blood.
why are we going to do that?
joe. i do not care a whit about your private life.
you want to give me an aids test?!
the guy sat in my office! you can not get aids that way, right?
right.
it does not travel through the air, by breathing, or touching, right?
not by touching, or shaking hands, or hugging, using the same toilet... even kissing someone with aids is safe. but it there is something in your past you are worried about...
thanks, doc, but i do not need an aids test. are you crazy? but thanks for the information. really.
a homosexual encounter.
get real.
unprotected sex with a prostitute.
uh.... no. not really.
or unprotected sex with someone you did not know very well, any time during the last twelve years.
you have a problem with gays, joe.
not especially.
how many gays do you know?
how many do you know?
lots.
who?
karen berman. aunt teresa. my cousin tommy who lives in rochester. eddie meyers from the office. joe cantwell, he is one of the partners. his lover, greg. stanley, the guy who is putting in our kitchen cabinets.
your aunt teresa is gay? that beautiful, sensuous woman is a... lesbian?
duh...
since when?
probably since she was born.
allright. i admit it: I am prejudiced. i do not want to work with a homosexual. you got me.
okay, joe...
i mean, two guys, doing the horizontal thing? i do not get it. do not they get confused? "is that mine? i thought it was yours." hey, call me old fashioned, call me conservative... i think maybe you have to be a man to get just how nauseating the whole basic idea really is.
fine, joe.
and the way they work out, pumping up, so they can be macho and faggot at the same time... i can not stand that shit. now I am being totally honest with you.
that is perfectly clear.
would you take a client if you were constantly thinking: "i hope this guy does not touch me. i do not even want him to breathe on me?"
oh, beckett. how is it goin'?
fine.
who would you get?
what?
find a lawyer?
I am a lawyer. how is your baby?
huh? oh. great. she is great.
what is her name?
rayisha.
rayisha. very nice.
how did they find out?
one of the partners spotted a lesion on my forehead.
the partner who spotted the lesion, walter kenton, used to work for benton, myers, in d.c. there is a paralegal there, maria torres. she is had lesions on and off for three years. she says it was common knowledge around the office that her lesions were caused by aids.
they did not fire her?
no. they did not fire her.
so kenton connected the... lesion, and whatever suspicions he had about your personal life... to this woman, maria... and blew the whistle on you. suddenly you are losing files, and it is time to let you go. but, up to this point, you have been their golden boy, their rising star... their behavior is... inconsistent.
thank you.
there is no relevant precedent.
arline decision. supreme court.
arline?
julius!
dr. j.!
... interview every employee, support staff, associates, partners. did any of them know andy was sick? how did they know? did he tell them? did they notice something was wrong with his appearance? none of this information got to the managing partners. we know that. make sure everyone else does too... and beckett: i want to know everything about his personal life. did he frequent those pathetic bars on camac street?
jesus.
what about other homosexual facilities, whatever they are?
charles...
what deviant groups or organizations did he secretly belong to?  what is it, bob?!
let's settle with andy and put this whole tragic mess behind us.
andrew brought aids into our offices, into our men's room. he brought aids to our annual goddamn family picnic.
we ought to be suing him.
that is kind of... extreme, walt. andy's private life is none of our business.
bob. you are trying my patience. andrew beckett is making his private life our business. we gave him kronos. did he say, "i'm sick. i might not be able to see this through?"
he was doing a great job.
bob. i must ask you to shut the fuck up. did andrew beckett say "i might not be able to serve our clients to the best of my ability?" he said nothing. and now, andrew beckett proposes to haul me into a court of law, to sling accusations at me, in full view of the entire, philadelphia, judicial establishment. my god.
wait a minute. the man was fired for incompetence, not because he has aids. you did not know he was sick, did you, bob?
holy shit. did you, bob?
jerk... what did you say?
i said, "everyone's going to die, jimmy. but drew's not going to die of aids. there is a cure around the corner, and he plans to be around to take advantage of it."
you got that right, mikey...  you still believe that, do not you?
yes. i think it will be a simple solution. they will put it in a syringe, inject it into your bloodstream. it will neutralize the virus. it will revitalize the immune system, and people with aids will become healthy again.
attorney for the plaintiff?
joseph miller, your honor. macready and shilts legal services.
I have seen your television commercials. "if you or anyone you know has been injured through the fault of others... it should say, "through the negligence of others."
I will take that under consideration, your honor.
on behalf of the defendants?
if it please your honor, we hope to settle this matter.
by god you will settle it! if you force this case to trial, young man, you will regret it for the rest of your natural-born days... now, joseph. what would you require to settle this matter today?
reinstatement at full salary. back pay covering the period of unemployment and...
hold it, joe.  he wants to come back to work, chuck.
based on what my client would have earned over the next three years, including benefits and projected raises, and the extraordinary cost of medical care for someone with acquired immune deficiency syndrome... we would settle today for the very fair amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars.
very good, joe. now, belinda, I have got a figure over here, of one million, five. i...
one more thing, your honor...
any settlement agreement must include, and this is critical, a letter of exoneration, making clear my termination had nothing to do with the quality of my work.
you can save it for the jury, charles. i want to hear you say, under oath, in front of a judge and a jury, I am a bad lawyer.  gentlemen.  counselor.
do not do this, andy.
whoa, whoa...  what do you expect them to say, you are alan dershowitz?
a trial takes time, beckett. do you know what I am saying?
you will be sorry, beckett.
andy, you do not want this.
hi, mom. how do you feel on your fortieth anniversary?
ancient. how do you think i feel? put that thing down and give me a hug.  andrew, stop! ... he still does not listen.
where is dad?
he is out in his shed showing your uncle his new riding mower.
mom?
all i know is, you got through your diagnosis fine, like a trooper. but when they fired you... you were so devastated, andy... i do not expect any of my kids to sit in the back of the bus. fight for your rights.
thanks, mom... dad?
and, when lawyers break the law, when this society loses respect for the law, when that day comes, our cherished institutions will be burned to the ground, and our children and grandchildren will live like savages.
fact. andrew beckett performed at a consistently mediocre level. fact. he made a grievous error on a multi-million dollar lawsuit... fact. he claims he is the victim of lies and deceit. fact. andrew beckett lied to his employers, going to great efforts to conceal his disease from them. fact. he was successful in his duplicity. the partners at wyant wheeler did not know andrew beckett had aids when they fired him...
andrew beckett represented your company in a lawsuit in 1990, is that correct?
wyant wheeler represented us.
but, andrew beckett was in charge of litigation for the suit.
that is correct.
were you pleased with his work?
we were satisfied.
mr. laird, when i approached you about being a witness at this trial, and you agreed, you gave sworn testimony in a deposition. is that correct?
that is correct.
according to the deposition, you said you were "thrilled, impressed, overwhelmed" by the quality of andrew beckett's work. do you remember saying that?
i may have said something like that. but that is not how i feel at this moment.
okay, mr. laird. explain this to me like I am a four year old: did andrew beckett win your lawsuit for you or not?
we won.
did that thrill, impress and overwhelm you?
it satisfied me.
it is a long way between being overwhelmed and being satisfied. a cheeseburger may be satisfying whereas caviar and champagne and roast duck and baked alaska for dessert might be considered overwhelming. do you agree?
i might.
five months ago you characterized andrew beckett as caviar and now you are calling him a cheeseburger. your standards have shifted a great deal, and I would like to know why you have changed your mind.
since that time I have devoted more thought to the subject, and that is how i feel now.
he was losing weight. he looked kind of tired sometimes. but he was working so hard... still, i felt something was wrong.  and i can not believe they're saying they did not notice anything.
objection.
ms. burton. you are black.
is that a question?
no. have you ever felt discriminated against, at wyant wheeler?
yes.
in what way?
well... one time, mr. wheeler's secretary, lydia, told me mr. wheeler had a problem with my earrings.
your earrings?
apparently, mr. wheeler felt they were too... "ethnic" is the word she used. she said he would like it if i wore something smaller, less garish, and... more "american."
what did you say?
i said my earrings are american. they are african-american.
thank you. no more questions.
miss burton? do you still work at wyant wheeler?
yes.
were you recently promoted?
yes. I am now in charge of the paralegal department.
thank you.
good school. what year?
second.
great.
would you like to have a drink with me? i just finished a game, i could use a beer.  i do not pick up people in drug stores every day.
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa... do you think... ? you think i'm...  ... gay?
are not you?
what is the matter with you? do i look gay to you?
do i look gay to you? relax.
relax? i ought to kick your faggoty little ass for you!
take it as a compliment. geesh.
do not you know this is exactly the kind of bullshit that makes people hate you guys?
fuck you! you want to kick my ass? you want to try?  asshole.
you are the asshole, buddy.
get a life.
do not know, joe.
is there some kind of expression I have picked up from beckett?! some kind of fairy attitude I have unconsciously adopted?! am i walking different?! some kind of vocal thing?! have i picked up some kind of homo vibe?!
have you changed your aftershave?
very funny. i had a box of pampers under my arm for chrissake!
joe?
yeah... ?
two men making love... ? now tell me again... why is that disgusting?
lisa, c'mon. one guy sticking his dick in another guy's mouth? it is disgusting.
okay, so... help me with this one, joe... is it disgusting for someone to put his dick into someone is mouth? or, is it disgusting for someone to take a dick into their mouth?
great, lisa. thank you.
objection!
I will rephrase.  did you have anything to do with this file being... misplaced?
in this courtroom, mr. miller, justice is blind. to matters of race, creed, color, religion. and sexual orientation.
with all due respect, your honor... we do not live in this courtroom, do we?
no. we don't... however, as regards this witness, I am going to sustain the defense's objection.
anywhere from two weeks, to several months.
any women on board?
not when i was in the navy.
so during those long voyages, months at a time, out to sea, no women in sight, a hundred, hardworking, robust, young men, in the prime of their life, at the peak of their natural appetites, desires, their god- given, hormonal instincts... anything going on?
going on... like...?
like... two sailors playing hide the salami.
let's continue.
you had one guy "like that?"
yeah. but we took care of him.
how did you do that?
we stuck his head in the latrine, after ten of us had used it.
you taught him a lesson.
yes, we did.
like firing andrew beckett taught him a lesson?
objection!
I will withdraw.  you were aware, when you worked with maria torres, that she had aids, correct?
she did not try to conceal it.
so you are aware of the difference between a lesion and a bruise, is that correct?
i know the difference. that does not mean I am always able to recognize the difference.
but did not you avoid contact with ms. torres, after you found out she had aids? she says you acted repulsed by her and you avoided her, is that correct?
i felt, and still feel, nothing but the deepest sympathy and compassion for people like maria, who have contracted this terrible disease through no fault of their own.
hold still. shit.  the goddamn vein's clotted. we have to go the goddamn hospital, so they can change the goddamn catheter.
i have too much work to do. skip the treatment.
we are not skipping this treatment.
i said, skip it, michael. it is my treatment.
fuck you.
fuck you. this shit's probably not doing me any good anyway.
that shit's saving your life, you asshole!
what is wrong with you?
close the law book.
I am not going to close the--
close the fucking law book!
allright it is closed!  jesus!
the least you can do is look at me, while I am sticking this shit into your arm. forget the fucking case, one hour a day, and give me a little of your time.
you do not think there is much time left, do you?
that is not what i said.
you are scared. you think we are near the end.
no.
maybe i should start making plans, is that what you think? start planning my memorial service? "begin to prepare for the inevitable."
maybe you should think about it.
what is that mean?!
maybe you should think about it.
I am not going to die.
that is right. we are on the positive plan. you do not have a fatal disease, you have manageable illness.
you want me to give up? let this thing turn us into victims?
then, what are we, drew?! the winners? "ladies and gentlemen, the first prize of aids goes to andrew beckett and his lover miguel..." excuse me, I am not your lover. I am your care partner. fuck!
I am not ready to die.
do you think I am ready for it?! i hate this shit. I am not a fucking martyr! i hate every goddamn part of it!
did i ever tell you, i hate costume parties?
my lettuce is wilting.
parrtyy!
we are friends of beckett's.
it is me, you dork.
beckett. you seem... better. energized, more alive...
i had a blood transfusion today. i feel great.
I am a law suit.
not bad.
get it?
let's find you a drink.
what do you want?
beer.  we need to go over your q and a.
excuse me, I am having a goddamn party, is that allright with you?
sure. it is fine.
no, we have to do it. but later, allright?
thank you.
you think I am uncomfortable...
correct.
you are right.
I will see you in an hour, max.
night, honey.
you survived your first gay party intact.
let me tell you something, okay? when you are brought up, like the rest of us, in a place like where i was brought up, there is not a whole lot of discussion about... homosexuals. as a kid, you are taught right away that queers are weird, queers are funny, they are a danger to kids, they are afraid to fight, and they all want to cop your joint. and that pretty much sums up the general thinking out there, if you want to know the truth.
thank you for sharing that with me, joe.
let's review these notes for your testimony. we have a big day on monday.
when you refer to wheeler, call him charles, to show how you would been admitted to the inner circle, you were considered one of them.
uh huh...
beckett?
charles. okay. miller?
what?
do you... pray?
then we establish how wheeler's boys recruited you after law school...
what have you prayed for?
for a healthy baby. for lisa to make it through the delivery. for the phillies to get into the playoffs.
there is a possibility i will not be around for the end of this trial.
I have considered that.
what happens?
we proceed, representing your estate.
I have made provisions in my will for some charities. miguel will need a lawyer. i know it is not your area...
i know a good probate lawyer.
thanks.  do you like opera?
opera?
want to hear my favorite aria?
opera?
I will look over the q and a.
you are ready, do not worry.
particularly, charles.
what impressed you about him?
he was... the kind of person i thought i wanted to be.
what kind of person is that?
possessed of an encyclopedic knowledge of the law. a razor sharp litigator, a genuine leader, gifted at bringing out the very best in others. an awesome ability to illuminate the most complex of legal concepts to colleagues, courtrooms, the person on the street.  the kind of person who plays three sets of tennis but does not sweat. but underneath the elegant surface, was an adventurous spirit.
obviously, at this time, you were not sick.
it is possible i was infected with the hiv virus at that time, but i was not diagnosed until several years later.
you did not look then, the way you look now?
a regular all-american guy?
i suppose you could say that.
except... you were gay?
i still am.
in the years you worked at wyant wheeler, did you ever tell charles wheeler you were gay?
no. i didn't.
can you explain why you didn't?
you do not bring your personal life into a law firm. you are not supposed to have a personal life, really. anyway, i did plan to tell charles, eventually. but then, this thing happened at the tennis club...
longstreet's interested in the harrisburg deal.
I am seeing him this afternoon.
are you a good lawyer?
I am an excellent lawyer.
what makes you an excellent lawyer?
i love the law. i know the law. i excel at practicing it. it is the only thing I have ever wanted to do.
what do you love about it?
well... many things. but i think the thing i love the most, is that every once in a while, not that often, but occasionally... you get to be part of justice being done. it is really quite a thrill when that happens.
you said earlier you aspired to be the kind of person who had "an adventurous spirit." is that correct?
something like that.
do you take risks?
in my work? yes. calculated risks. you have to.
in general. do you take risks in other areas of your life?
not unnecessary ones.
have you ever been to the apollo cinema on sansom street?
what kind of movies do they show there?
gay movies.
gay pornographic movies?
yes.
do men have sex with each other in that theater?
yes.
when? approximately what year did this event take place?
i guess it was 1984, 85.
were you aware in 1984 or 1985 that there was a fatal disease out there, called aids, and that you could contract it through sexual activity?
it is impossible to know exactly when or how i was infected with hiv.
but you were having anonymous sex in porno theaters in 1984 and 1985?
that happened once. people were not talking about aids then, the way we are now. or safe sex.
you would heard of aids in 1984, 85?
I would heard of something. the gay plague, gay cancer, but... we did not know how you could get it, or that it could kill you.
do you need a break?
no.
while you were employed at wyant wheeler, you did everything you could to make sure no one knew you were an active homosexual, correct?
that is not correct. i never lied about it.
did you keep a picture of your lover on your desk?
no.
do other lawyers at the firm keep pictures of their spouses or fiances on their desks?
some do. i didn't.
as a homosexual, one is often forced to conceal one's sexuality, is that right?
in some situations.
is not it true you have spent your life pretending to be something you are not, so much so that the art of concealment and dishonesty has become second nature to you?!
objection!
I will withdraw it. mr. beckett? were you living with miguel alvarez in 1984 or 1985 when you had your anonymous sexual encounter in the porn theater?
yes.
you could have infected him, is not that right?
miguel has not been infected. as i said, we were not aware of aids, then, or how it is spread.
really?
yes.
you have testified the lesions on your face were visible to the people you worked with, correct?
that is right.
and it is your contention, that when the partners were made aware of the lesions, they jumped to the conclusion you had aids and fired you.
absolutely.
do you have any lesions on your face at this time?
one. here, in front of my ear.
by the time i was fired, there were four lesions on my face, much bigger...
answer the question, please.
no. i can not really see it.
thank you.
this would be a good time to break for the day...
your honor? may i have ten minutes in re-direct?
beckett?
do you have any lesions on any part of your body, at this time, that resemble the lesions that were on your face at the time you were fired?
yes. on my torso.
if it please the court, I would like to ask mr. beckett to remove his shirt, so that the jury can have an accurate idea of what we are talking about.
we object, your honor. it would unfairly influence the jury.
your honor, if mr. beckett was forced by his illness to use a wheelchair, would the defense ask him to park it outside? we are talking about aids, we are talking about lesions. let's see what we are talking about.
can you see the lesions on your chest in this mirror?
yes.
thank you.
I have discovered something interesting, charles.
... keep them from that area, on grounds of relevancy.  what, bob?
no matter how hard i try, i can not lose a file in my computer.
very interesting, bob. let's make a note of that. andy did not lose the complaint in his computer. he never put it in. he lied about that, too.
charles...
if you feel differently, bob, you should say so, when you are called to the stand. after all, this is not a conspiracy.
explain to me, if you can, mr. wheeler, explain this to me like I am a ten year-old. this trial is not about a disease, is that what you are saying? not about your understandable, if unfounded, fear of catching aids through casual contact with someone who has it? you are saying, this trial is about andrew beckett's character. am i getting this right?
yes, character. to the extent that it affects a person's ability to do a great job.
sometimes it seems like society is run by these kinds of people.
what kind of people?
people who want to bend the rules...
... to suit their personal desires, and the rest of us have to live with it.
you have to make a decision: is this guy partner material?
i did not tell the others, i was afraid to...
... but now, we are standing up for ourselves...
... but we should not have fired him...
... it is time to get this society back on track!
what do you call a thousand lawyers chained together at the bottom of the ocean?
what?
a good start.
excellent work, joe. i thank you.
it was good working with you, andrew. you are welcome.  hey. should not you put that thing back on?
i better get home. lisa and i are having some friends over.
sure thing.
thanks for coming by.
you bet. we will see you later.
I am ready...
ready for what, baby?
whatever.
i hope you are ready for "studs," because that is what is on.
