i think it would be rather exciting to meet a pirate.
think again, miss swann. vile and dissolute creatures, the lot of them. i intend to see to it that any man who sails under a pirate flag, or wears a pirate brand, gets what he deserves: a short drop and a sudden stop.
captain norrington... i appreciate your fervor, but i am concerned about the effect this subject will have on my daughter.
my apologies, governor.
actually, i find it all fascinating.
and that is what concerns me. elizabeth, we will be landing in port royal soon, and beginning our new lives. would not it be wonderful if we comport ourselves as befits our class and station?
yes, father.
man overboard!
boy overboard!
fetch a hook -- haul him out of there!
he is still breathing.
where did he come from?
what happened here?
an explosion in the powder magazine. merchant vessels run heavily armed.
did he speak?
his name is will turner -- that is all i found out.
very good.
elizabeth? is everything all right? are you decent?
yes -- yes.
it is -- beautiful. may i inquire as to the occasion?
is an occasion necessary for a father to dote upon his daughter with gifts?
although ... i did think you could wear it to the ceremony today.
ceremony?
captain norrington's promotion ceremony.
i knew it.
or, rather, commodore norrington ... a fine gentleman, do not you think?  he fancies you, you know.
difficult ... to say.
I am told that dress is the very latest fashion in london.
women in london must have learned to not breathe.
elizabeth, this is hardly appropriate --
about the day we met. do you remember?
i could never forget it, miss swann.
will, how many times must i ask you to call me 'elizabeth'?
at least once more, miss swann. as always.
this dock is off-limits to civilians.
sorry, i did not know.
some sort of to-do up at the fort, eh?  you two were not invited?
no ... somone has to make sure this dock stays off-limits to civilians.
this must be some important boat.
that is a fine goal, I am sure ... but it seems to me a ship like that --  -- makes this one here just a wee superflous.
oh, the dauntless is the power in these waters, true enough -- but there is no ship that can match the interceptor for speed.
that so?  I have heard of one, supposed to be fast, neigh uncatchable ... the black pearl?
there is no *real* ship as can match the interceptor.
the black pearl is a real ship.
no, it is not.
yes it is.  I have seen it.
you have seen it?
yes.
you have seen the black pearl?
yes.
you have not seen it.
yes, i have.
you have seen a ship with black sails that is crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out?
... no.
no.
but I have seen a ship with black sails.
oh, and no ship that is not crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out could possibly have black sails and therefore could not possibly be any ship other than the black pearl.  is that what you are saying?
... no.
like i said, there is no real ship as can match -- hey!
what is your name?
smith.
what is your business in port royal, 'mr. smith'?
and no lies!
none?  very well.  you rumbled me. i confess: i intend to commandeer one of these ships, pick up a crew in tortuga, and go on the account, do a little honest pirating.
i said, no lies.
i think he is telling the truth.
he is not telling the truth.
he may be.
if he were telling truth he would not have told us.
i apologize if i seem forward -- but i must speak my mind.  this promotion confirms that i have accomplished the goals i set for myself in my career.  but it also casts into sharp relief that which i have not achieved.  the thing all men most require: a marriage to a fine woman.  you have become a fine woman, elizabeth.
i can not breathe.
I am a bit nervous, myself --
well, well... jack sparrow, is not it?
captain jack sparrow.  if you please.
taking stock: you have got a pistol with only one shot, a compass that does not point north ... and no ship.  you are without a doubt the worst pirate i have ever heard of.
ah, but you have heard of me.
commodore, i must protest.  pirate or not, this man saved my life.
one good deed is not enough to redeem a man of a lifetime of wickedness.
but it seems to be enough to condemn him.
indeed.
miss swann.
miss swann, if you will be so kind?
you are despicable.
i saved your life; now you have saved mine.  we are square.
on his heels!  gillette, bring a squad down from the fort!  elizabeth, are you --
yes, I am all right, I am fine!  go capture him.
you look familiar ... have i ever threatened you before?
I have made a point of avoiding familiarity with pirates.
ah.  then it would be a shame to put a black mark on your record.  so if you will excuse me ...
do you think this is wise, boy? crossing blades with a pirate?
you threatened miss swann.
only a little.
who makes all these?
i do.  and i practice with them. at least three hours a day.
you need to find yourself a girl.  or maybe the reason you practice three hours a day is you have found one -- but can not get her?
you cheated.
pirate.
move away.
no.
move!
no.  i can not just step aside and let you escape.
has my daughter given you an answer yet?
no.  she hasn't.
well, she had a very taxing day... ghastly weather tonight.
bleak.  very bleak.
what?
parlay!  i invoke the right of parlay!  according to the code of the brethern, set down by the pirates morgan and bartholomew, you must take me to your captain!
i know the code.
if an adversary demands parlay, you can do them no harm until the parlay is complete.
it would appear, so do you.
my apologies, miss.  as you were saying, before you were so rudely interrupted?
captain barbossa ... i have come to negotiate the cessation of hostilities against port royal.
there was a lot of long words in there, miss, and we are not but humble pirates.  what is it you want?
i want you to leave.  and never come back.
i am disinclined to acquiesce to your request.  means 'no.'
very well.
I will drop it!
my holds are bursting with swag. that bit of shine matters to me ... why?
because it is what you are searching for.  you have been searching for it for years.  i recognize this ship. i saw it eight years ago, when we made the crossing from england.
did you, now?
you have a name, missy?
elizabeth --  turner.  I am a maid in the governor's household.
you have got sand, for a maid.
thank you, sir.
and how does a maid come to own a trinket such as that?  a family heirloom, perhaps?
of course.  i did not steal it, if that is what you mean.
no, no, nothing like that.  very well.  you hand that over, we will put your town to our rudder and ne'er return.
can i trust you?
it is you who invoked the parlay! believe me, miss, you would best hand it over, now ... or these be the last friendly words you will hear!
that jack sparrow ... he talked about the black pearl.
mentioned it, is more what he did.
still --
are you familiar with that ship? the black pearl?
somewhat.
where does it make berth?
surely you have heard the stories? the black pearl sails from the dreaded isla de mureta ... an island that cannot be found -- except by those who already know where it is.
the ship's real enough.  so its anchorage must be a real place. where is it?
why ask me?
because you are a pirate.
and you want to turn pirate yourself?
never.  they took miss swann.
so it is that you found a girl. well, if you are intending to brave all and hasten to her rescue and so win fair lady's heart, you will have to do it alone.  i see no profit in it for me.
i can get you out of here.
how?  the key's run off.
i helped build these cells.  those are hook-and-ring hinges.  the proper application of strength, the door'll lift free.  just calls for the right lever and fulcrum ...
agreed.
agreed!
not without my effects.
we need to go!
why are brothering with that?
my business, will.  as for your business -- one question, or there is no use going.  this girl -- what does she mean to you?  how far are you willing to go to save her?
I would die for her.
good.
come aboard.
i have not set foot off dry land since i was twelve, when the ship i was on exploded.  it is been a sound policy.
no worries there.  she is far more likely to rot out from under us.
we are going to steal a ship?  that ship?
commandeer.  we are going to commandeer a ship.  nautical term.
it is still against the law.
so's breaking a man out of jail. face it, will: you may say you will never be a pirate, but you are off to a rip-roaring start.  my advice -- smile and enjoy it.
this is either crazy, or brilliant.
remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
everybody stay calm.  we are taking over the ship!
aye!  avast!
dead serious.
you understand this ship cannot be crewed by only two men.  you will never make it out of the bay.
we will see about that.
sir, I will not see any of my men killed or wounded in this foolish enterprise.
fine by me.  we brought you a nice little boat, so you can all get back to shore, safe and sound.
agreed.  you have the momentary advantage, sir.  but i will see you smile from the yard arm, sir.
as likely as not.  will, short up the anchor, we have got ourselves a ship!
commodore --
a moment.
but --
please.
dammit, man, it appears someone is stealing your ship!
raise the sails.
the wind is quarter from astern ... by the time we are underway, we will never catch them.
we need only to come about, to put them in range of the long nines.
hands!  come about!  jackets off the cannons!  we are to fire on our own ship?
better to see it at the bottom of the sea than in the hands of a pirate.
you will be dining with the captain, and he requests you wear this.
tell the captain that i am disinclined to acquiesce to his request.
he said you say that!  he also said if that be the case, you will be dining with the crew, and you will be naked.
maid or not, it fits you.
dare i ask the fate of it previous owner?
now, none of that.  please dig in.
oh, there would be no sense in killing you, miss turner.
then why are not you eating?
would that i could.
do you not know what this is, then?
it is a pirate medallion.
it is a piece of the treasure of isla de muerta.
for a man whose made an industry of avoiding boats, you are a quick study.
i worked passage from england as a cabin boy.  after my mother passed, i came out here ... looking for my father.
is that so?
my father.  william turner?
i knew him.  probably one of the few he knew him as william turner. most everyone just called him bill, or 'bootstrap' bill.
'bootstrap?'
good man.  good pirate.  and clever -- i never met anyone with as clever a mind and hands as him. when you were puzzling out that cell door, it was like seeing his twin.
that is not true.
i swear, you look just like him.
it is not true my father was a pirate.
figured you would not want to hear it.
he was a merchant marine!  he was a respectable man who obeyed the law, and followed the rules--
you think your father is the only man who ever lived the glasgow life, telling folk one thing, and then going off to do another? there is quite a few who come here, hoping to amass enough swag to ease the burdens of respectable life. and they are all 'merchant marines.'
my father did not think of my mother -- his family -- as a burden.
sure -- because he could always go pirating.
my father -- was not -- a pirate!
put it away, will.  it is not worth getting beat again.
you did not beat me.  you ignored the rule of engagement.  in a fair fight, I would kill you.
then that is not much incentive for me to fight fair, is it?
tortuga?
oh -- did i forget to mention that?
just do it quickly.
do not worry.  I have already got a quartermaster -- there!
you stole my boat.
anamaria!  have you seen gibbs?  i need to put together --
my dory.  the jolly mon.  where is it?
safe!  at port royal.  with the royal navy.
that boat is my livelihood!
you will get it back.  or one better.
i will.
curse you for breathing, you slack- jawed idiot.  mother's love, jack, you know better than to wake a man when he is sleeping.  it is bad luck!
well, fortunately, i know how to counter it.  the man who did the waking buys the man who was sleeping a drink, and the man who was sleeping it drinks it while listening to a proposition.
aye, that will about do it.
blast it, I am already awake!
i know.  that was for the smell.
make it last, then.  now, what is the nature of this venture of yours?
first -- have you found me a crew?
oh, there is a hard tale, jack. most of the decent pirates in town will not sail with you -- seem to think you are a jinx.
now where, i wonder, would they have gotten that idea?
say again?
I am going after the black pearl. i know where it is going to be, and I am going to take it.
jack, it is a fool's errand: you have heard the tales they tell about the pearl.
aye, and that is why i know where it is going to be, and that is why i know what barbossa is up to.  all i need is a crew.
a fool's errand.
not if the fool has something barbossa wants.  something he needs.
and you have got that, have you?
kid's a bit of a stick, is not he?
that he is.
shut up, before you lose them all!
these are the only ones worth having.  and we are going to need them --
we would best drop canvas, sir!
she can hold a bit longer.
what is in your head to put you in such a fine mood?
we are catching up!
how do we expect to find an island no one can find -- with a compass that does not work?
now, lad, just because it do not point north do not mean it do not work.  that compass gives bearings to the isla de muerta, wherever it may lay.
really?  so ... what is the story on the pistol?
I will tell lee.  now, jack sparrow has an honest streak in him, and that is where the whole problem starts.  this was when he was captain of the black pearl --
what?  he never told me that.
ah -- he is learned, then.  plays things more close to the vest. see, jack was a cartographer, back in old england.  somehow he came by the money to commission the pearl. hired himself a crew, promised each man an equal share.  so, they are forty days out, and the first mate says, everything's an equal share, that should mean the location of the island, too.  so jack gave up the bearings.  that night, there was a mutiny.
jack gave hisself up for the sake of his loyal crew.  he was marooned on an island, left there to die.
how did he get off the island?
how did you get off the island?
ah, that is a dark and unpleasant tale, best left untold.
wait -- what about the pistol?
the pistol.  when a pirate is marooned, will, he is given a pistol with a single shot.  no good for hunting, or surviving, really.  but after three weeks of starvation and thrist -- the option of that pistol begins to look good.
but i survived.  and i still have that single shot.  it is meant for one man.  my mutinous first mate--
barbossa.
how does he do that?
they will be anchored on the lee side.  haul your wind, and keep to the weather of the island --
the curse drove you to gather this?
aye.  and not a bit of it any use to us, only hoarded.  but it will drive us no longer.
what is that?
depends.
on what?
on whether the stories are all true.  if they are, that is a waterfall that spills over at high tide, with a short drop to an underground lagoon.  if not --
you?!
me!
you are in league with barbossa!
no, I am -- rescuing you.
miss swann!  we are here to rescue you!  it is going badly!
this way!
I am glad we got here in time.
truthfully -- you were a bit late.
come on!
no.  this will not work.  I will stay behind, and fight them. you go on.
no.
I will lead them away.
go to the opposite end of the island, and signal the ship.  I will keep 'em busy.
are you sure?  jack -- this is not something you have to do.
I am sure.  when you have led the kind of life that i have, there are debts that must be paid.  maybe i can balance the scales a little.
i know whose blood you need, to end the curse.
say the name, or i slit your throat.
no you won't.
now?
now.  no, do not kill him.
allow me the humor of listening to your terms.
simple.  i have something you will not more than anything.  the way to free you from the curse of the treasure.  you have something i want -- more than anything.
the pearl?  oh, that is fine.  and just how do you expect this to work?
you give me the pearl.  then i tell you who you need.
that is your offer?  you, sailing away nice and pretty with the black pearl, and all i have is a name?
that is right.
I am supposed to ... trust you?
you see, I have got this honest streak in me -- in its own way, a sort of curse.  oh, and there is the fact that you have no choice.
I will torture it out of you.
you left me on a desert island -- what worse can you do?
blast you!  I will throw you in prison.
wait as long as you like.
you are setting me up for a double cross, you with the ship, and me with nothing more than your word!
let's say i tell you the wrong person.  what would you do?
track you down and --
jack, i do not trust you, and that is a fact.  never trust a smiling man, you can lay to that.
see, that is where we are different. i trust you ... to do what it takes to get what you want.
you are playing this as close to the edge as any man, I will give you that.  we might just have to sign articles, you and i.  jack, you are a pirate at heart, that is certain.
what -- you do not have the medallion?
that fool woman took it.  you be careful around her, jack -- she is pretty enough, she will steal your heart -- but pure evil inside.
I will watch my back.
bosun!  set up mr. sparrow's quarters, nice and fine ... in the brig.  meaning no disrespect, of course.
why would my father send this to me?
to keep it away from them?  no pirate would sail to london, for fear of execution dock.
if i had known --
-- then we never would have met.
i can not believe he would make such a sacrifice for us.
i guess you can never truly know someone else's heart.
it is a signal.  if we resist, it will not just be death.  there'll be torture as well.
we are not going to just surrender!
that we are.
we can at least fight -- we might be able to kill a few--
will -- it will go worse for us -- for elizabeth, especially -- if we fight.
what is in your head, boy?
she.  goes.  free.
you have got one shot -- and we can not die.
you can't.  i can.
will -- do not do anything stupid! do not say anything stupid --
my name is will turner, the son of bootstrap bill turner.  his blood runs in my veins.  you need my blood.  and on my word i will pull this trigger, and sink all the way down to davy jones' locker!
looks like your back to having nothing to offer.
and he is got old bill's courage. a curse on him, and you!
enough of that!  name your terms.
elizabeth goes free!
we got that part.  anything else?
and jack.  and the crew.  free and unharmed.  if you agree ... then ... i will remain with you.
agreed.  you have my word, as a gentleman of fortune --
will -- you can not trust him.
you must swear by the holy bible.
eh?  you have my word, then -- on the good book, i do swear, and the lord spare my worthless soul.
no!  you gave your word!
quite, boy, or you will lose your tongue.  those as know me know i would not cross my word, and bring down bad luck on the ship.  i agreed to set them free.  i did not when ... nor where.
it is pure evil to make a captain walk the plank of his own ship, twice in one lifetime.  no good can come of it.
now, jack.  that reef is less than a league distant.  it is a square deal all around, and you can not hope for better.
someone needs to cut these bonds, then.
you would best take a swim, jack.
the last time you do this, you left me a pistol, with one shot.
that is proper, sir, according to the code.
by the powers, you are right!  where is jack's pistol?  who is got it?  bring it forward!
so how did you get off that island, anyway?
you can go to your grave not knowing.
that is fair.
has it changed since the last time you were here?
the trees are taller.
captain sparrow!  we have to get off this island -- immediately!
do not be thinking I am not already working on it.
what?  what is wrong?  how will this help us get off the island?
it won't.  it won't, and so we won't.
but ... you did it before!  last time --
last time, i was here a grand total of three days.  last time, the rumrunners who used this island as a cache came by, and i bartered passage off.  but from the looks of this, they have been out of business, and so that will not be happening again.  we probably have your friend norrington to thank for that.
so that is it?  that is the secret grand adventure of the infamous jack sparrow?  you spent three days on the beach drinking rum?
welcome to the caribbean, love.
you should look at our contretemps this way: we have got shade trees, thank the lord.  we have got some food on the trees, thank the lord again.  and we have got rum, praise the lord.  we can stay alive a month, maybe more.  keep a weather eye open for passing ships, and our chances are fair.
a month?  will does not have a month!  we have got to do something to help him!
you are right.  here's luck to you, will turner.
do not be thinking I am happy about this, elizabeth.  but i see no use in wailing and gnashing my teeth over that which i can do nothing about.
not when you can drink instead, at least.
drink up me hearties, yo ho ...
what?  what was that?  something funny, miss swann? share, please.
nothing ... it is nothing.  just ... I am reminded of a song i learned as a child.  a song about pirates.
i know a lot of songs about pirates, but none I would teach a child.  let's hear it.
oh, no ... it is silly.  back in england we did not know a thing about pirates, really.  they seemed so romantic and daring --
that was before i met one, of course.
now i must hear this song.  an authentic pirate song.  have at it.
well, perhaps ... with a bit more to drink, i might ...
more to drink!
when i get the black pearl back, I am going to teach it to the whole crew, and we will sing it all the time!
you will be positively the most fearsome pirates to sail the spanish main.
jack, it must be so terrible for you, to be trapped here on this island, all over again.
ah, well ... the company is better than last time.  and the scenery has definitely improved.
mr. sparrow!  I am not sure I have had enough rum to allow that kind of talk.
we have got a few bottles left ... and we have yet to tap the kegs.
to freedom.
to the black pearl.
what are you doing?  you have burned our food, the shade -- the rum!
yes, the rum is gone.
why?
one, because it is a vile drink that turns even the most respectable men into scoundrels. two --
that signal is over a thousand feet high, which means it can be seen for two hundred leagues in every direction.  the entire royal navy is out to sea looking for me -- do you think there is even a chance they could miss it?
you -- you burned up the island, for a one-time chance at being spotted?
exactly.
elizabeth, I am relieved you are safe.  clap him in irons.  and behind his back this time.
commodore, you can not do that!
you are speaking up for him again?
he can locate isla de muerta -- but i doubt he will be willing to help us from the brig.
we had time to get to know each other.
we are bound for port royal, not isla de muerta.
no.  the pirates have taken will --
your father is frantic with worry. our mission was to rescue you and return home.  that is what we shall do.  mr. turner's fate is regrettable.  but so was his decision to engage in piracy.
commodore, please!
norrington, think about it ... the black pearl, its captain and crew ... the last pirate threat in the caribbean.  how can you pass that up?
by remembering that i serve others, not only myself.
commodore, i beg you -- please do this ... for me.  as a wedding gift.
i am to understand that you will accept my marriage proposal on the condition i rescue mr. turner?
not as a condition -- a request.
elizabeth, i hereby withdraw my proposal.
what?
i know where your heart truly lies.
you may seclude yourself in my cabin.  I am afraid we do not have any ladies' clothing aboard.
then i can wear men's clothing.
that would hardly be proper.
well, i am not going to stay hidden in some cabin, or i suppose it is going to be heaving bosoms and bare for the remainder of the voyage!
you did not tell commodore norrington everything.
nor did you, i noticed.
he might delay the rescue ... and that would be too late.
exactly.
these men will be facing an enemy that seemingly cannot be killed.
i have a plan.  if it succeeds, then any battle will be decidedly brief ... and one-sided.
what is your plan?
i do not like the situation, mister sparrow.  the island is riddled with caves.  i will not put my men at a disadvantage.
funny, i was thinking along those lines.  how about you let me go in alone, and while you are setting up an ambush, I will trick the pirates out to you.
you would do that?
they left me stranded.  twice. what have you got to lose?
nothing i would not be please to be rid of.
i knew you would listen to reason!
that chart i drew up'll get you past the reefs.  if you are steersman's good enough, that is.
I will be at the wheel myself.
I will slip in, talk them into to come out, and you will be free to blow holy high heaven the whole lot of them.
no reason to fret.  it is just a prick of the finger and a few drops of blood.
turner blood does not flow pure in his veins.  best play it safe, and spill it all.
i guess there is a reason to fret.
do you have any idea where you are going?
jack!
do not talk.  these caves magnify sound.  just follow me.
are you certain this is the right way?
it is the right way.
no, i really think i do.
all right then.
why do not i want to do this?
because, right about now, the h.m.s. dauntless is lying in wait in the harbor.
jack!
-- and its guns and crew will cut you and your men to pieces the moment you step outside these caves.
do you believe him?
no.  but him i believe.  he us genuinely angry.
you have no hope of surviving norrington's attack ... that is, if you are mortal.
what are you suggesting?
like after you have killed ... every ... last ... one ... of norrington's men.
i can not help wondering, jack, why you are being so helpful and all? last time you did that, it did not end well for you.
the situation has changed.
that so?
aye.  see, after you are done with the royal navy, you will have a bit of a problem: the h.m.s. dauntless. there you will be, with two lovely ships on your hands, and what to do?  of course you will decide you deserve the bigger one, and who is to argue?  the dauntless a first- rate ship-of-line, and with it, you can rule the seas.  but if you are captain of the dauntless, who is left for the black pearl?
now, you can take care of the dauntless, right?
men!  are you up for it?
there is ... another exit?
aye, for us there is.
all the men in place, sir.  ready to fire.
wait for my order -- what the blazes is that?
just so you know, jack -- i do not think you are that clever.  i think you are a fool.  a mortal fool.
remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
so what now, jack sparrow?  are we to be two immortals, locked in epic battle until the trumpets of judgement day?
or you could surrender.
hah.  ten years you carried that pistol, and you end up wasting your shot.
he did not waste it.
well, you are the worst pirate I have ever heard of.  you are a man who can be trusted, who can be counted on, and who can not betray his friends.  what kind of pirate is that?
the worst.  on the other hand, maybe I am a man who can not pass up a chance for revenge against the black-hearted bastard who stole my ship and left me to die in the middle of the ocean -- twice! -- and who knows how to get what he wants.  now that is a great pirate.
there.  and do not you dare tell me that was not a proper kiss!
elizabeth, i think it does not matter that we are of a different class --
it doesn't!
-- but that was not a proper kiss.
sir!  shall i break out the cannons?
i do not think that will be necessary.
anamaria, trim the mainsail!
aye, aye, sir!
mr. gibbs, organize a cleaning detail -- you and cotton.  i want every inch of the pearl spic-and- span and ship-shape!
