landon! send a last signal.
what signal?
to earth! that we have landed!
it is no use ... there she goes.
forget it. abandon ship.
gone.
we are here to stay.
well? where are we? have any notion, skipper?
we are some three hundred and twenty light years from earth. on an unnamed planet in orbit around a star in the constellation of orion.  that could be bellatrix.
got your sensors?
yo!
geiger counter?
yo!
one pistol... twenty-four rounds of ammo. two medical kits.. one camera... one tx9.  we have enough food and water for three days.
but how long is a day?
good question.  landon -- check your communications kit.
landon! join the expedition.
sorry...  i was thinking of stewart. what d'you suppose happened?
air leak. died in her sleep.
you do not seem very cut up about it.
it is a little late for a wake. she is been dead nearly a year.
then we have been away from earth for eighteen months.
by our time.  you have turned gray.
apart from that, you look pretty chipper for a man who is two thousand and thirty one years old.  i read the clocks. they bear out hasslein's hypothesis. we have been away from earth for two thousand years, give or take a decade.  still can not accept it, huh?
long pause) you know it.
because time has wiped out everyone and everything you cared for -- they are dust.
prove it. if we can not get back, it is still just a theory.
it is a fact, landon. buy it. you will sleep better.
nothing will grow here .... there is just a trace of hydrocarbons, and most of the nitrogen is locked into nitrates.
any sign of dangerous ionization?
no.
okay. if there is no life here, we have got just seventy-two hours to find it. that is when the groceries run out.
which direction?
that way.
any particular reason?
none at all.
if only we could get a fix.
what would you learn? I have told you where you are and when you are.
taylor -- quit riding him.
you are more than three hundred light years from your precious planet. your loved ones have been dead and forgotten for twenty centuries. even if you could get back, they would think you were something that fell out of a tree.
all right --
there is only one reality left. we are here and it is now. you get ahold of that and hang on tight, or you might as well be dead.
I am prepared to die.
straighten me out on something. why did you come along at all? you volunteered. why?  I will tell you. they nominated you for the big one and you could not turn it down. not without losing your all-american standing
climb off me, will you!
and the glory, do not forget that. there is a life-sized bronze statue of you somewhere. it is probably turned green by now, and nobody can read the name plate. but never let it be said we forget our heroes.
taylor.	i'm telling you --
oh, and one last item. immortality. you wanted to go on forever.  well, you damn near made it. except for dodge and me, you have lived longer than anybody. and with stewart dead, it looks like we are the last of the strain. you got what you wanted, kid. how does it taste?
okay. you read me well enough. why can not i read you?
do not bother
dodge ... he is not like me at all. but he makes sense. held walk naked into a live volcano if he thought he could learn something no other man knew. i understand why  he is here. but you...you're no seeker. you are negative.
but I am not prepared to die.
I would like to know why not. you thought life on earth was meaningless. you despised people. so what did you do? you ran away.
where there is one there is another. and another. and another.
let's find them all.
scarecrows?
let's take a look.
can we take a dip?
okay.
no cigar.
try telling them our names.
well, at least they have not tried to bite us.
blessed are the vegetarians.
we got off at the wrong stop.
you are our optimist look at the bright side. if that is the best there is around here, in six months we will be running this planet.
which one was wearing the strange clothes?
him.
will he live?
i do not know. this beast lost a lot of blood.
this place is dirty, doctor.
these animals are dirty, doctor. they stink, and they carry communicable diseases. why are not they cleaned up before they are brought here?
but the quota system's been abolished! you made it. why can not i?
what do you mean, made it? I am an animal psychologist, that is all. we do not have any authority.
you do pretty well when it comes to getting space and equipment.
that is because dr. zaius realizes our work has value.
hmph.
the foundations of scientific brain surgery are being laid right here - in studies of cerebral function in these animals.
they are still dirty. and their bite is septic. look at that ...
good morning, dr. zira.
good morning, julius. how is our patient today?
no change. the minute you open the door, he goes into his act.
you could get hurt doing that, doctor.
do not be silly. he is perfectly tame.
well, bright eyes, is our throat feeling better?
listen, listen -- i can speak --
awww, it still hurts, does not it?
see? he keeps pretending he can talk.
did you see that? it is remarkable!
huh?
he is trying to form words.
well, you know what they say. human see, human do.
speak! go on.	speak again.
my - name - is not - bright eyes it is taylor!
there! can you believe it? i looks like he is talking.
I am not acting! i can talk! how much proof do you want?
dr. zaius, i could have sworn he was answering you!
he is moving his fingers!
of course. he saw you moving yours.
but perhaps he understood --
do you have to work tonight?
no.
neither do i.
that is bright eyes. the one i was telling you about.
what is so special about him?
watch.  hello, bright eyes. how is our throat today?
look -- she remembers.
remembers what?
the blood transfusion.
zira, come on. you know they can not --  oh oh. here comes number one.
cornelius, if you have a moment today, I would like to discuss this expedition of yours in more detail.
certainly, sir. I will get my notes and come right over.
what happened?
those fools and their torches! do you have any ointment?
I will see.
get me a collar and leash. I am taking him to the infirmary.
he is vicious, doctor. besides, it is against the rules.
do as i say.
it is a stunt. humans do not write.
dear, you are a scientist. do not you believe your own eyes?
where did you learn to do this?
now, just a minute --
oh, cornelius, be quiet.
'dodge was killed in the hunt. what happened to landon?'  i do not know.
and they fell out of the sky with you?
flight is a scientific impossibility.
and even if it weren't, why fly? where would it get you?
cornelius, why do you insist on provoking him?
no creature can survive in that part of the forbidden zone. I have been there. I have seen it.
'then how do you account for me?,
i don't. and I am not going to try.
but what about your theory? the existence of someone like taylor might prove it.
zira, are you trying to get my head cut off?
do not be foolish. if it is true, they will have to accept it.
no, they will not -
cornelius has developed a brilliant hypothesis -
it is probably wrong --
-- that the ape evolved from a lower order of primate, possibly man. in his trip to the forbidden zone he discovered traces of a culture older than recorded time -
the evidence was very meager --
you did not think so then.
that was before dr. zaius and half the academy said the idea was heresy.
how can scientific truth be heresy? what if taylor is exactly the proof you needed? a mutation. a missing link between the unevolved primate and the ape -
'i am not a missing link.'
because if he is a missing link, it means the sacred scrolls are not worth their parchment.
well, maybe they are not.
no, thank you'. i will not get into that battle.
oh, cornelius, show some strength!
zira, listen to me. we have got a fine future ahead of us. marriage. stimulating careers. I am up for a raise --
dr. zaius --
did you forget our appointment, cornelius?
oh., no., sir. i was just assembling my notes.
you know dr. maximus, our commissioner for animal affairs?
certainly, sir. it is a pleasure to see you again.
what is that?
a man, dr. maximus.
i know it is a man. and you know the rules. no animals outside the compound, and most certainly not without a leash.
yes, sir. but this -- creature is a special case.
why special?
we are -- conducting a new experiment.
would not it more properly be done in your office?
yes, sir.
a toy. it floats on the air.  try it.
zira....
where have you been? why did not you come to see me?
shhhh!
what is this?
a hearing.
let it be clear at the outset that all matters pertaining to this inquiry are confidential, and anyone discussing them outside this chamber will be held in contempt of the tribunal.  you may proceed, dr. honorius.
by your leave, mr. president -- the tribunal has not yet defined the purpose of this inquiry.
you asked for the opportunity to present your case. surely you must know why you are here.
my own purpose is to save this exceptional creature from mutilation.
and our purpose is to settle custodial and jurisdictional questions concerning this beast, and determine what is to be done with him.
at the very least, this man has the right to know whether there is a charge against him.
objection. the accused is indeed a man. therefore, he has no rights under ape law.
well, dr. zira? this is a man, is he not?
sustained. in all fairness, dr. zira, you must admit the accused is a nonape, and therefore has no rights under ape law.
then why is he called the accused your honors must think him guilty of something.
dr. zira -- tell bright eyes to sit down.
my name is taylor.
it says here that his name is bright eyes. you gave him that name yourself.
this hearing is absurd! let me tell my story...
bailiff! make the animal be quiet.
state your case, mr. prosecutor.
learned judges: my case is simple. it is based on our first article of faith: that the almighty created the ape in his own image; that he gave him a soul and a mind; that he set him apart from the beasts of the jungle, and made him the lord of the planet.
there is a conspiracy afoot to undermine the very cornerstone of our faith
come to the point, dr. honorius.
directly, mr. president. this wretched man, the accused, is only a pawn in the conspiracy. we know that he was wounded in the throat at the time of his capture. the state charges that dr. zira and a corrupt surgeon named galen experimented on this wounded animal, tampering with his brain and throat tissues to create a speaking monster ...
thats a lie!
mind your tongue, madame.
did we create his mind too? not only can this man speak. he can write. he can reason.
he can reason? with the tribunal's permission, let me expose this hoax by direct examination.
proceed. but do not turn this hearing into a farce.
tell the court, bright eyes -- what is the second article of faith?
i admit, i know nothing of your culture.
of course he does not know our culture - because he cannot think.  tell us why all apes are created equal.
some apes, it seems, are more equal than others.
ridiculous. that answer is a contradiction in terms. tell us, bright eyes, why do men have no souls? what is the proof that a divine spark exists in the simian brain?
show this to the president.
since the defendant is forbidden to speak in his own defense, he asks that this statement be read into the record.
read it yourself.
'i have come to you from a planet in a different solar system. i am an explorer in space, with no hostile intentions against your civilization. on my planet it was the primate man who evolved into a thinking animal, while the apes remained..."
stop right there. bring me that paper.
this is a joke in very poor taste.
is it a joke to seek the truth about this man?
dr. zira -- you state here that a ship from outer space sank in an inland sea of our eastern desert.
i do not state it, sir. the prisoner does.
do you believe him?
like you, i find it difficult.
but how convenient that the proof of his arrival has vanished?  you also state that bright eyes had two intelligent companions at the time of his capture.
this is his assertion.
where are they now?
one is in a museum!
dr. zira! silence that man!
how sad. stuffed and mounted, eh? dead men, like sunken ships, can tell no stories. and his other companion?
he does not know.
mr. president, i believe the prosecutor has reassembled all he surviving humans captured in the hunt along with bright eyes.
that is true, dr. zaius. my witnesses -- correction -- my exhibits are on display in the amphitheater.
very well. i suggest we go and look at them.
it is him...landon.
which one?
second from the left.
well...do you acknowledge kinship with any of these creatures?
with one of them.
identify him, then. speak to him.
you! ... you knew about this?
no, i swear -- i never saw this man before.
you did this to him! you have removed his frontal lobes!
you destroyed his memory! his mind! his identity! and, you want to do the same to me!
bailiff! stop this outburst! gag that monstrosity!
he exceeded his orders. his travel permit was promptly revoked.
yes, sir, so it was -- thanks to you. but not before i discovered evidence of a simian culture that existed long before the sacred scrolls were written ...
objection! these remarks are profane and irrelevant.
sustained.  your archeological theories have no bearing on the disposition of this creature.
let them talk, mr president. let them talk.
sirs: our theories have a bearing on his identity.
how so?
let us assume, as common sense dictates, that the prisoner's story is false. but if he does not come from another planet, then surely he sprang from our own. yes, sprang.  as an animal psychologist, i have found no physiological defect to explain why humans are mute.
objection!
sustained.
sustained.
sustain all objections, but face the truth!
yes, sir. the state charges doctors zira and cornelius with contempt of this tribunal, malicious mischief and scientific heresy.
be it so ordered. the tribunal will examine all the evidence presented here and in due time render a verdict on the proposed indictment and on the disposition of the deviate in question.  this hearing is adjourned.
what about me?
oh, your case was preordained. in a way, you performed a service for the state ...  because your hearing made it possible for us to expose zira and cornelius.  and now the tribunal has placed you in my custody for...final disposition. do you know what that means?
no.
emasculation, to begin with. then experimental surgery. on the speech centers. on the brain. ultimately, a kind of living death.
however, it is within my power to grant you a reprieve.  that is why i summoned you here tonight.  tell me who and what you really are and where you come from, and no veterinary will touch you.
i told the truth at that 'hearing'of yours.
you lied. where is your tribe?
my tribe, as you call it, lives on another planet in a distant solar system.
then how is it we speak the same language?  even in your lies, some truth slips through! that mythical community you are supposed to come from -- fort wayne'?
what about it?
a fort! unconsciously, you chose a name that was belligerent.  where were you nurtured?
i take it you do not believe the prosecutor's charge -- that I am a monster created by dr. zira.
certainly not.	you're a mutant.
that is exactly what zira and cornelius claim. you are talking heresy, doctor.
of course.
all right, suppose i am a mutant? why does the appearance of one mutant send you into a panic?
because you are not unique. there was the one you call landon --
then you admit --
i admit that where there is one mutant there is probably another. and another. a nest of them. where is your nest, taylor? where are your women?
thank you for calling me taylor.  dr. zaius, i know who i am. who are you? how did this upside down civilization ever get started?
you may well call it upside down, since you occupy its lowest level. and deservedly.  the eastern desert has never been explored -- because we have always assumed that no life can exist there.  save yourself, taylor. tell me -- is there another jungle beyond the forbidden zone?
i do not know.
if you are protecting others of your kind, it will cost you your identity.
I am not protecting anybody! that hearing was a farce. what have i done?
you are a menace! a walking pestilence. i do know who you are, taylor. as i know that others of your kind must live in the forbidden zone.  you have just six hours to make a full confession. after that I will employ surgery to obtain one.  guards!
who are you?
so you can talk.  I am dr. zira's nephew. this abduction was her idea. you are not really going to the zoo. that is just our cover story in case we are stopped.  although i do feel that if it ever came down to a question of whether something like you should be public or private property --
come on. get me out of here.
she comes along too.
zira does not want your female.
i want her.
if you insist. but I am not taking any orders --
fine. just let her out.
i told you not to bring the other one.
he would not leave her.
all right...  get in...hurry.  put this on.
listen-
taylor -- just keep quiet and we may get away with this. remember that men all look alike to most apes.
gorilla hunters ...
keep moving. we can not turn back now.
how did it go?
there was one bad moment -- some hunters stopped us.
well, taylor -- we are all fugitives now.
do you have any weapons?
the best. but we will not need them.
just the same, i want one.
as you wish.
zaius seems to think there might be another jungle beyond the forbidden zone. that is what  we will try for. what about you?
cornelius and i have been indicted for heresy. unless we can prove our theories, we do not stand a chance of acquittal.
you are going back to the forbidden zone?
to the diggings i worked at a year ago. it is a three day ride across the eastern desert, near where you claim you landed from that planet of yours.
you still do not believe me, do you?
it is a long detour to dead lake. what would we find?
nothing much. the remnants of a life raft. maybe a small flag. the emblem of my countrymen.
sorry, taylor. the terrain around that lake is poisonous. there is no fresh water, no vegetation. nothing.
i know ... nevertheless, i thank you for saving us. you will be in trouble for going there.
we would better get started. if the mounted police pick up our trail, they will come this far at least.
right.  let's put the water and provisions in the wagon.
are you going to take her with you?
yes.
actually, you are a different breed. this creature will never evolve.
maybe not.
you want her that much?
you threw us together, remember? and you guessed right. men, like apes, get despondent without a mate.
who put them up?
the hunt club.
to scare off humans?
where does the river lead?
it empties into a sea some miles from here. that is where the cave is.
you have never told me why this region's called the forbidden zone.
no one really knows. it is an ancient taboo. set forth in the sacred scrolls. the lawgiver pronounced the area deadly.
should not we be moving on?
I am for that.
what is the diagnosis, doctor? a touch of the sun?
she is not sick at all.  she is pregnant.
why did you do that? scrape off your hair?
in my world -- before i left it - only youngsters of your age wore un- scraped hair.
when are you going to show me what is in the cave?
right now, if you like.
stop right there.
do not be a fool. you are outnumbered and outgunned.
if there is any shooting, dr. zaius, you will be the first to die. depend on it.
taylor, you are not in command here. put down that gun.
shut up.
how did you know we would come here?
it was not difficult. only an apostate or a lunatic would flee to the forbidden zone.  i see you brought along the female of your species.  i did not realize a man could be monogamous.
i ask you to reconsider the rash course you have taken. if you are convicted of heresy, the most you will get is two years. but if you persist in pointing guns in my direction, you will hang for high treason.
we have never meant to be treasonable, sir.  but up there, in the face of that cliff, is a vast cave -- and in that cave a fabulous treasure of fossils and artifacts.
I have seen some of your fossils and artifacts. they are worthless.
and that is your minister of science. honor- bound to expand the frontiers of knowledge.
taylor, please --
except that he is also the chief defender of the faith.
there is no contradiction between faith and science. true science.
all right, let's see if you are willing to put that statement to a test.
taylor, I would rather you -
no. you saved me from this fanatic. maybe i can pay you back.
what is your proposal?
when were the sacred scrolls written?
twelve hundred years ago.
very well. if zira and cornelius can prove that those scrolls do not tell the whole truth of your history; if they can show you definite evidence of another culture from an unrecorded past -- will you exonerate them?
of course.
okay.up to the cave.
sorry, lucius. you will have to stay here and guard the horses.
always giving orders. just like every other adult.
relax. you will see it all later.
indeed, the very fact that these tools are unknown to us could suggest a culture in certain ways almost equal to our own. some of the evidence is uncontestable ...
do not speak to me in absolutes. the evidence is contestable.
i apologize.
to begin with, your methods of dating the past are crude, to say the least. there are geologists on my staff who would laugh at your speculations.
secondly, if these 'tools' as you call them, are unidentified, why are they introduced as 'evidence' of anything?
but there is the doll, sir.
what?
taylor! tell him.
he has a point. on my planet children often play with ape dolls.
a doll alone proves nothing. true. but the doll was found beside the jawbone of a man -- and no trace of simian fossils has turned up in this deposit.
your conclusion is premature. have you forgotten your scripture? the thirteenth scroll?  'and proteus brought the upright beast into the garden, and chained him to a tree, and the children made sport of him.'
no sir, i have not forgotten.
well? for a time the ancients kept humans as household pets.	until the lawgiver proved that man could not be tamed. keep digging cornelius. you will find evidence of the master of this house: an ape.
yes. i have to agree. from all you have found so far, his position's as good as yours.
what are you doing there?
reconstructing a life. care to have a look?
i do not say he was a man like an earthman, but I would call him a close relative, for he was plagued by most of man's ills.  yet, fragile as he was, he came before you -- and was superior to you.
that is lunacy. i can give an alternate description for everyone of those objects that is equally as inventive as yours. but it would be conjecture, not proof.
tell him to pull back!
cease fire! withdraw!
not everything. they left a hostage.  how do you feel, lucius?
disillusioned...  but vindicated! I have been right all along. you can not trust the older generation. it is a matter of values --
all right, all right. will you do me a favor? no orders.
what is it?
i want you to go around the bend and tell those gorillas their leader is my prisoner.
yes, i can do that.
then tell them dr. zaius will not leave here alive.
taylor, you can't.
taylor, please -- do not treat him that way.
why not?
it is humiliating.
was not i humiliated? by all of you? did not you lead me around on a leash?
that was different. we thought you were .... inferior.
and now you know the truth.  cornelius has beaten you, doctor. he proved it. man preceded you here. you owe him your science, your language, whatever knowledge you have.
then answer this: if ran was superior, why did not he survive?
he might have been wiped out by a plague. natural catastrophe. like a fiery storm of meteors. from the looks of this part of your planet, I would say that was a fair bet.
they think you are behaving foolishly. i must say i agree. where will you go?
I will start by following the shoreline.  and my nose.
but suppose you find nothing but a wasteland. how will you survive?
he will not survive.  do you know what sort of life awaits you out there, taylor? that of an animal. if you are not eventually hunted down and killed by apes, some jungle beast will devour you.
then there is another jungle?
of course, you could return with us. our society might find a place for you and your mate.
sure.	in a cage.
where else, but in a cage, does man belong?
no, thanks. I will take freedom.
would you like to come along?
we can't.
it is better than going to prison for heresy.
they can not convict us of that. you proved our innocence. besides...  ... his culture is our culture.
good luck then.
dr. zira, I would like to kiss you good-bye.
all right, but....  ...you're so damned ugly!
go with god, taylor.  that is an old expression. it comes from both ape and man.
god bless you.
lucius.
i think you are making a mistake.
that is the boy. keep 'em flying.
what?
the flags of discontent. it is the only way anything ever gets changed.  do not try to follow us.  I am pretty handy with things like this.
why? from the first, I have terrified you, doctor. and in spite of every sign that I am an intelligent being who means no harm, you continue to hate and fear me. why?
because you are a man. and you were right -- i have always known about man. from the evidence, i believe his wisdom must walk hand in hand with his idiocy. his emotions must rule his brain. he must be a warlike animal who gives battle to everything around him -- even himself.
what evidence? no weapons were found in the cave.
the forbidden zone was once a paradise. your breed made a desert of it, ages ago.
we are back at the beginning. i still do not know the why. a planet where apes evolved from men. a world turned wrong side up. a puzzle with one piece missing.
do not look for it, taylor. you may not like what you find.
seal the cave?
that is correct. and you will both stand trial for heresy.
but the proof? the doll?
in a few minutes there will be no doll. there can not be.  I am sorry.
