daniel...
what?  no kiss?  not even for old times sake?
when did you...?
been out for six months now.
really?  what have you been doing?
you know, this and that.
somebody has to.
same old daniel.
oh no.  not by a long shot.  i may look like the old daniel o'brien, but on the inside, nothing is the same.
is that so?
oh yeah.  see, susie, a man doesn't do the hard time and just pick up where he left off.  oh no.  the big house does things to a man.
the big house?
the big house.
jesus, daniel.  it wasn't ryker's island.  it was work camp for white collar criminals.
a cage by any other name would still smell like sweaty ugly men.
i've been thinking about you a lot all these years, locked up in my cell.  i'd tear through every issue of the midwest science journal looking for your latest findings, watching as you slowly worked your polymerization experiments up through single celled organisms to that holiest of holies, the fruit fly.  exciting stuff.  i got to tell you, it really kept me going.
i guess i should be flattered.
i remember you said, nanotechnology was going to change the world.
it already is.
i've read they're using it to repair cancer cells.
and for cleaning up oil spills.
right.  you predicted it.
do you ever wonder what happened to us, susie?
it was a long time ago, daniel.  we were young, different people, heading in different directions. that's all.
yeah.
well, it was good to see you, daniel, but i have to be going.
sure.  can i ask you one more thing? you haven't published anything in a while.  how come?
nothing really worthwhile.
that's what i thought.
like rotting meat.
you're not rotting meat.
oh no?  smell this.
icarus, please, if you want me to give you a bath just say so.
no.  i'm getting used to it.
she's working as fast as she can, icarus.  it will be ready soon.
it's ready now, i know it is.
she says it's not.
she's lying.  she lost the first one on purpose.
she did not.  the mouse ran down the drain.
she let it escape because she wants me to die.
don't be a child, icarus.  she is just another scientist and like all scientists, she doesn't care about anything outside the world of the laboratory.
what?  oh, i'm sorry, nigel.  i was just thinking...
aaabout...?
this morning.  i saw someone i haven't seen in a long time.
a man?
yeah.  i knew him when i was still in school.
what did he want?
i'm not sure.  that's the funny thing about him.  he's the kind of guy that you never know what he wants or what he might do to get it.
yeah?  so what?
so what?  so what?  for starters, how about littering is a crime.
haw-haw!  why don't you run off and find a cop and i'll wait right here.
why don't you just put this in your pocket so when you see a garbage can you can put it where it belongs.
why don't you just shove it up your ass!  haw-haw!
what is it with you litterbugs?  is it a territorial thing, marking your turf with your garbage?
you better quit pushing me, pal.
i just want to know what goes on in the mind of a litterbug.  what chemical is secreted by your smooth brain that tells you, 'it's okay, just chuck it'?
look, asshole, i don't got time for this.  if you got a problem, you better take care of it yourself.
oh no, no, no.  no can do.  you enjoyed a tasty beverage and thus this receptacle becomes your responsibility and i don't care if it's a styrofoam cup or the exxon valdez!  you've got to learn to take responsibility!
what are you going to do?  make me throw it out?
i'll do whatever i have to do.
do you remember about five years ago, that uh... incident at purnell labs?
oh yeah.  they were working on molecular assemblers, too, weren't they?
they also tried using viral r.n.a. as the bonding element.
that's right.  c.d.c. found out and closed them down...
yeah, somebody broke in and stole the samples, one of those animal rights groups, right?  i remember now, they freed all the monkeys which caused that huge pileup on the massachusetts turnpike, right?
yeah.  but it wasn't a group.  it was one man.
that's the guy?
it might be paranoia, but i've never lost my keycard before.
'paranoia is what separates the secured from the unsecured.'
if this nutcase did take it and has half a brain, he'd use it right away, before we could invalidate it.
yes, that is what i was thinking.
in fact, would it be safe to say, based on your general knowledge of this character, that he is already in the building?
yes, he might be.
what did security say?
they'll in validate the key. probably nothing.
well, you got another problem.
the replicators?
worse.  mrs. argon wants to talk to you.  she's waiting in the lab.
this day just keeps going from bad to worse.
vermin...
can i help you, mrs. argon?
i spoke to dr. argon this morning and he remains frustrated over the loss of the original nanobot.
i am aware of dr. argon's frustrations.
he believes that the second nanobot should be ready for testing by now.
under the circumstances, i can't fathom what makes dr. argon think we are ready for anything bigger.  if c.n.n., or hell, if the e.p.a. knew what was in my basement --
is that a threat, dr. bright?
look, as i have said and will continue to say, the instability of the assembler waste remains my priority --
while you remain on the staff at argon laboratories, your priorities will always be the same as dr. argon's priorities.  i imagine that is a simple enough equation for a bright girl like you to figure out.
if you don't have any questions, i'll let you get back to doing your job.
just one question.  since dr. argon no longer has feeling below his waist, how is it that you're still able to do your job?
i could have you fired right now.
you won't.  that's why you're whispering.
i bet he hasn't read a single report we've written on the waste problem.
i hope you're right.  i'd feel a lot worse if he had read them and just didn't care.
what are you going to do?
what i've always done.  as long as i'm the only one who can build the nanobot, i'm the only one who can say when it should be tested.
and what i love about molecular science is the way it revolutionizes how we have to think.  it unifies the entire world on a single level. everything is completely connected. sometimes i can really feel it, everything around us, just a small part of a whole.  it's really wonderful.
yeah, we'll see.
we'll see?  what does that mean?
we'll see how wonderful it is after you spend the next twenty years making agent orange.
god, daniel, i'm not going to make agent orange.
you think the chemists that invented agent orange twenty years ago were in school saying, 'boy, i really got some good ideas for a highly toxic incendiary defoliant.'  you think oppenheimer was dreaming about mushroom clouds before the war?
we've had this conversation already, daniel.
all i'm saying is that the companies that have money for the kind of research you're interested in, have money because that's what they're interested in!  money!
i'm sorry i brought the whole thing up!  if you're gonna flip your wig --
i can't help it, suze.  it's this place.  you know how i get in these stores.  they freak me out.  all these tiny boxes, little cans filled with eight syllable god knows what.
you think it's a coincidence that they have all these aisles lined up like this, like a little maze! we're all lab rats running through their maze, pulling lever a or lever b, each designed to create some kind of bio-chemical dependency.  all the while they're everywhere, watching us, two-way mirrors, surveillance cameras, nodding to each other, making little notes.
you're insane.
am i?  look!  right there!  that's exactly what i am talking about.
hey!
you don't want this.
yeah, i do!
you have no idea what this is doing to your body.
i like trix!
daniel, give him the trix.
susan, this is the future of america here.
here, kid, this is great stuff.  why don't you give it a try?
i want trix!  mommy!
how long do you leave him in there?
until he's done.
that's impossible.
it's a miracle.
icky!  what's happening?
who cares!  we've got to find him! hurry!
it works, poppy.  it works, it works!
now, icky, i don't need you winding yourself up.  i need you focused and in control.
but, poppy, you don't know what this means --
you don't either.  we won't know anything until we find that guy and find out if he's alive or what.
yes, that's true.  we have to find him, run tests, determine if the polymerization is stable.
in the meantime, we're going to need someone to deal with that mess in the lab.  i don't think we should call dr. bright.
oh no.  no.  we'll get her assistant.  what's-his-name? nebbishman?
nebbleman.
okay.  alright.  okey-dokey.  now, we need the nanobot.  the nanobot that initiated the reaction.  once we have that we can stabilize the meltdown.  simple really.  no problem.
the nanobot is gone.
the fact is, that the milk has been spilled and now we need you to tell us how to clean it up.
cleaned up?  it can't be cleaned up! without the nanobot the waste can't be stabilized!  that's what we've been trying to tell you!  the only thing we can do is run!  run!  run!
facts, dr. nebbleman.  facts. you've been using cryogenics to control the waste from the mouse experiment, haven't you?
well, yes.  the replicators are not as active at low temperatures.
then perhaps we can use liquid nitrogen to keep the meltdown under control.
that might work.
poppy, order the trucks from the gary plant.  and we're going to need a containment crew.
a containment crew is going to attract a lot of attention.
you're right.  place a call to our friends at the network and to mr. joplin at the e.p.a.
you!  i remember you!
i'm real touched.  now get your sunday's on.  we're going for a ride.
what?  i'm not going anywhere!
oh yes you are!
i get it.  you're the goon fetch boy.  the zookeeper argon calls in when one of his guinea pigs gets loose.
that's right.
only this ain't no tranquilizer gun. now let's go!
forget it, pissboy!  you tell argon he can call my lawyer.
mrs. argon?  it's sim.
mr. sim?  do you have him?  he's alive?
oh yeah, he's alive.  technically.
and you have him?
we lost him.
mr. sim, when you do locate him.  do not scare him off again.  just watch him.  i think you can handle that. right, mr. sim?
you got it, dr. argon.
susie!  you gotta help me!
daniel, what are you doing here?
please, susan!  i need help! something is wrong with me!
sorry, daniel, i'm a physicist, not a psychiatrist.
no, something is really wrong... look!
they did it to me!
the nanobot.
... just like the mouse.
mouse?  what mouse?
my first organic-polymerization was a lab mouse.
what happened to it?
i don't know.
you don't know?
it escaped from the lab before we could finish the experiment.
but you've polymerized single-celled bacteria and the fruit flies, i know you have.
yes.
then you must have at some point tried to reverse the procedure.
oh no, no, no!  you've got to be able to fix me!  please, susan, tell me you can make me normal again!
once the subject was polymerized we were unable to reassemble the original organic structure.
oh god, please!  this can't be happening!  i can't be plastic!  a plastic man?!
daniel!
i'm a plastic man!  a plastic man!
we don't have time for hysterics.
we don't?
what has happened to you is nothing compared to what is going to happen to calumet city if we don't hurry.
what are these?
mostly caffeine diuretics.  help you go to the bathroom.
why?
the nanobot is still inside you. it's programmed to exit through the urinary tract.  we need it as soon as possible, so swallow those.
pills... you know how i feel about pills.
if you don't want to do it this way, i can remove it surgically.
why do we need it?
the nanobot is the only thing that can stabilize the waste.
what waste?
to put is simply, the nanobot inside you is a microscopic machine encoded with information like a strand of messenger r.n.a. that is programmed to synthesize your molecules with the polyisoprenes of the assembler fluid, rebuilding your entire organic system on a molecular level.
that was 'simple'?
the nanobot combined your molecules with the plastic molecules in the white assembler fluid, so that on a molecular level you now have more in common with a good year tire than a human being.
got it.
the problem is the by-product created by the process.
the waste.
the replicators start off like assemblers, but the replicators never stabilize.
what happens?
that was an egg?
three days ago it was.
what do these replicators do to people?
with enough exposure, the same thing they do to everything else.
so right now there's little replicators spreading throughout argon's lab?
that's right.
isn't it already too late then?
i think while we're waiting, we had better run some basic diagnostics on you.
you're the doctor.
lungs sound fine.  you didn't have any pre-existing physical conditions, did you?  allergies? infections?
no, why?
is something wrong?
no, no, i just feel wired!
susan!
what?  what's wrong?
look at this!
what about it!
just look at it!
the polymerization probably synthesized into a kind of methyl- cyanoacrylate.  so what's wrong?
oh yeah, real funny.  yuk-yuk. let's laugh at everything a man believes in.
i'm sorry, daniel, but you have to admit it's pretty ironic that you of all people would be the first man ever polymerized.  it's got to mean something.
means?  oh no.  we won't know what it means until the end of the story and maybe then it won't seem quite as funny to you, doctor frankenstein!
what's that supposed to mean?
just giving credit where credit is due.
you have no one to blame but yourself.
blame the victim.
victim my ass!  you stole my security key and used it to break into my lab to do who knows what kind of damage!  maybe this is the end of the story and you finally got what you deserved!
this is what i deserve for trying to protect the world from a madman and his mercenary physicists?
you're not protecting the world, you're obstructing progress!
i don't consider uncontrollable toxic waste progress!
and i'm sure you thought columbus was going to sail off the edge of the world!
but lo and behold he found another world that progress could annihilate!
come on, i don't see you living in a cave!
and i don't see you sunbathing at chernobyl!
just like old times.
yeah.  old times.
i want you to know that i really appreciate you helping me.
i'm glad you came to me for help.
i feel very emotional right now.  a bit out of control.
probably the caffeine.
do you have something to bring me down?
no problem.
well, at this time, i mean that is to say, it is difficult to project --
look, john, nobody wants to find out what happens.  that's why you're here.  we need your help on this one and that's why that suitcase is here.
uh oh.  i remember that temper.
daniel, i didn't hear you come down...
what's wrong?
the nanobot... it's not here...
it's still inside me?
how far can you stretch?
i don't know.
i'm going to go out for a while.  i want to take the blood samples to a lab that has the equipment i need.
what did you want my hair for?
something else i want to try.
i could go with you.
i think it would be better for me to go alone.  i'm sure sim is looking for you.  just sit tight.  i'll bring you back a pizza.
no cheese.
i was hoping you were over that. remember to keep drinking fluids.
that's pretty good.
getting used to it.
what's that?
it's a crime fighting costume, what do you think?  it's underwear, so if you lose your clothes you'll still be decent.
that's going to fit me?
like a glove.
you made this out of my hair?
sort of.  we used a process similar to the vulcanization of rubber and added bulk with a chain of chloroprene elastomers.
did you go?
on the counter.
who is he?
the head shrinker at the prison.
oh no.  they're trying to blame you for the accident.  that means they must not have been able to control the replicators.
i can't go back to jail.  i gotta get out of here.
you're not going back to jail.  all we need to do is find the nanobot. once the meltdown is under control, then we deal with argon --
what in the hell?
pipe down, brain lady!  and you...
wheelchair accessible.
dr. argon, i demand an explanation.
i can explain it.  attempted murder wasn't enough for him.  he wants to add kidnapping to the charges.
if you'd like, we can go straight to the authorities.  i understand they are very interested in talking to you.
... plastic.
wow, that is one moving story.  take it easy on my heart strings.  now i really feel guilty complaining about you shooting me up with your poison.
poison?  i'm surprised at you.  you lack vision, mr. o'brien.
you're lacking a few things too: ethics, morals, common decency and, oh yeah, deodorant.
the body is just another part of nature and ever since we gave up trees for central air, there has been nothing sacred about nature. nature is the enemy, mr. o'brien, and science is our greatest weapon against her.
you egomaniacs make me laugh. nature's going to bury you like she buries everyone else.
not anymore, mr. o'brien.  the nanobot has changed that.
if you think i would ever give you the nanobot after this, you are deluding yourself.
you don't have to give it to us because dr. nebbleman can just cut it out of him.
she could have given him something to stimulate his kidneys.
dr. nebbleman, take care of them.
mr. sim i want you to return to dr. bright's.  i believe she is hiding something of ours there.
no.
where did he go?
the trunk.
yes?
it's sim.  we're almost there.
mr. sim, watch out!  o'brien escaped and could be on his way!
you want to tell me what i'm looking for?
i've only been invited to her house once, but i know there is a basement lab that she uses for private research.
okay.
you were never invited to my house.
you're looking for a urine sample.
what's it smell like?
smell?  uh, something like methylcyanoacrylate.
like crazy glue?
yes.  that's it.  he's got it.  oh god, he's got it!
gently, ott.  gently.
dr. nebbleman, i want to know the moment the nanobot arrives.  the instant, understand?
of course, sir.
dr. argon, i know you want to use the nanobot on yourself, but you mustn't.  the situation is critical right now.  the replicators are growing exponentially.  if we wait much longer it will be too late. you have to use the nanobot to stop the meltdown.
dr. bright, i don't have to do anything.
but in another twenty-four hours the core meltdown will be beyond the stabilization period.  there will be no way to stop it.
to be brutally honest with you, susan, as long as the nanobot does to me what it did to that idiot o'brien, i don't give a rat's ass about what happens after that.
you can't mean that.
come with me, susan.  i want to show you something.
something to drink, dr. bright?
no, thank you.
you'll forgive me but all the excitement has left me extremely parched.  poppy?
we will always love most that which we create.  don't you agree, susan?
does that mean oppenheimer loved the atomic bomb?
i brought you up here, dr. bright, because i want you to understand that we are on the path.  the only difference is that you are walking with your head down, afraid to look up, to see where the path is going.
i suppose you are going to tell me where it is going.
i ask you what is the purpose of science?  what is the point of all our relentless exploration, investigation and experimentation? it is to understand a single physical phenomenon, or to understand them all?  to cure one disease, or to cure every disease? if science is simply a means, what then is the end?
pollution?
do you know what i see?  i see man making his own clouds.  i see man coloring his own sky, and like this garden it is a site that makes my heart sing.
this is our world, susan, and once you realize that, you will understand that the only place our path can end is on the throne of heaven.  science is the quest for divine perfection.
how do you know we're not heading in the wrong direction?
i look behind us, i look to the past, to a world steeped in rot and decay.  i think of the acropolis in another century reduced to little more than dust.  i see the faces of rushmore eventually losing all distinction, and then i look at this...
they're here!  they're here!  we have the nanobot.
excellent.  how long until the assembler tank is complete?
dr. makeo is working on it now, sir. i estimate at least another six hours.
in the meantime, why don't you find something useful for dr. bright to do.
i swear to you, argon, if you don't stop the meltdown that nanobot will be the last one i ever build.
susan, i sense you are having difficulty understanding the situation you are presently in.  i ask that you keep in mind that i am ready to reduce an entire city to gelatin to get what i want.
i don't believe this is happening...
susan, dr. argon is giving you an opportunity here.
opportunity?
there's a guard outside my door! i'm a prisoner, nigel!  do you understand that?
dr. argon would say we are all prisoners.
argon is a lunatic!  i can't believe i was stupid enough to believe i could control him.  you heard what he said, nigel.  he doesn't care if all of calumet city is turned to jell-o.  how can that not affect you?
because i am a new man, susan.  i am a man of vision.  your problem, susan, is that you're always looking down.  if you'd just look up you'd see the big picture and in the big picture men of vision do not dwell on what might be lost.  they focus on what can be gained.
is that what argon told you?
no!  well, not those exact words.
nigel, can't you see he's using you?
of course he is, but at least there isn't a security guard outside my door.
you're afraid of him.
who isn't?
i'm a scientist.  i have lived my whole life by the diagnostic application of fact and the fact is, argon is going to get whatever he wants, so if i were you, i'd give it to him.
you mean the designs for the nanobot?  you think after this i'm going to give them to him?
i think that either you're going to give them to him or he's going to make you give them to him.
make me?  how?  you think he's going to torture me?
do you think she will give us the designs?
eventually.  these things are always a matter of leverage.
and you think o'brien is that leverage?
that remains to be seen.
and you still believe he's going to come here?
based on what we know of him, that would seem inevitable.
do you think she loves him?
she must feel something for him. after all, she and i did create him.
poppy, are you in one of your moods again?
no, icky, this is real.
you know how i feel about you.  you know how much i need you.  how much i trust you.  i would do anything for you.
why are there two ottomans?
icarus, please!  this is important!
look at me, icarus!  look at my body.  i've done everything, changed anything you asked me to.  'we will always love most that which we create.'  is that still true?
yes.  yes, of course it is.
then you still love me?
poppy, please, just tell me what you want.
icarus?
i promise, my dear, i will give the matter some consideration.
consideration?
if you honestly trust me, then you'll have to trust me.
i don't believe it.  you're here! oh thank god.
you didn't think i could just leave you?
i didn't know what was going to happen.  i was just so worried something was going to happen to you.
what could happen?  i'm the plastic man, remember?
oh no!  argon!  we have to stop him before he uses the nanobot!  we have to get the nanobot!
where is it?
argon's private lab.
let's go.
this is wonderfully accommodating of you all.  now i won't have to come looking for you.
you were looking for us?
yeah, i have something i've been meaning to give you.
yeah, and what might that be?
an ass-beating.  would you like yours first, mr. sim?
i should kill you right now for what you did to me!
maybe you should, but you can't.
run, daniel!  get out of here!
i'm not leaving without you, susan!
what are you going to do to him?
do?  well, i suppose that depends on you.
what did you use?
a light mixture of oxygen, dioxide, and sodium pentothal.  he'll sleep, that's all.
can you feel it, poppy?  the presence of the moment?  can you feel the weight of its significance?
oh yes, icky.  i can feel it.
this is what my entire life has been directed at, this moment, this threshold.
okay, arms up, lean forward.
it will be an ascension.
i'm so excited, icarus.
i was wondering if you'd finished considering?
considering what?
what i asked you earlier?
poppy, please --
if you loved me like i loved you?
poppy, this is not the time!
of course you understand, dr. argon, that once the nanobot is inside of you, there is no going back --
shut up and do it!
sir, please try to hold still.
so, i guess it worked.
look, i don't mean to rain on everyone's ascension here, but we got a little problem.
speak.
dr. bright has escaped.
excellent work, dr. nebbleman.  you have outdone yourself.
thank you, sir.
dr. argon, everything's starting to come apart here.  you hired me to take care of these matters of security and i am trying, but elements are making my job impossible.
have you found dr. bright?
no.  the captain of the containment crew is closing down the main lab. he says the area has got to be evacuated.
he's probably right, sir, the building is probably going to collapse under its own weight.
and if we evacuate, what do you want to do with o'brien?
it'll be better for us if he simply disappears.  the gardener will know what to do.
wait, wait, can i at least have his body?
donated to science.  perfect.
susan!
wellie well, dr. bright.  you're just in time.
all the different ways that i could kill you.
oh yeah?
maybe you're ready to find out if that hide of yours is bulletproof?
the question is, are you?
you saved my life.
did you think i could just leave you...?
susie... i...
you don't have to say anything, daniel.  i'm a scientist.  i know what's happening.  i recognize the classic symptoms.  dizziness, shortness of breath, sweating palms... i can feel my adrenals secreting, my parasympathetic nervous system quivering, the estradiol coursing through my entire body...
what in the...?
oh shit, the meltdown.  it's spread to the tower.
we've got to get the nanobot.
it's too late.  argon injected it.
you mean he's polymerized, like me?
that means the nanobot is still inside him.
yes.
what would happen if i threw him into the core?
the same thing i suppose.
did you feel that?
did i?  i've been waiting for that for years.
not that.
daniel, just forget argon.  let's get out of here.  we'll find another way to stop the waste.
we don't have time to argue, susan.
you're not going after argon!
i have to!
do the words 'hero fantasies' mean anything to you?  how about 'infantile dementia'?
how apropos.
ain't it.
as you can see i am a new man, just like you.
oh no.  you're not like me.  in fact, i'm betting you're the same greedy, remorseless, egomaniacal bad guy you always were.
it remains to be seen who is the good guy and who is the bad guy. history is written by the victor.
the only history i'm gonna write is your obituary!
icky!
get him, daniel!  knock his block off!
okay, barbie, let's get this over with.
don't worry, four eyes.
i know what you're doing.
you mean besides kicking your ass?!
you think you can use me to stop the meltdown.
please, o'brien, don't do this to me!  i'll give you anything you want!
yeah, i'm going to finish what you started --
you can't do this!  you owe me, o'brien.  i made you plastic!  i made you!
that's right.  and making me was the biggest mistake you ever made!
god, when we were in that store all i could think about was that one time, when we were in school, and you attacked that little kid who wanted some cereal.  do you remember that?
i remember i was trying to help...
god, what a fight that was.
we were different people then.
do you suppose that was our problem? we met before our time?  i think that happens a lot.  people, events, planets all just circling each other waiting for that moment when everything clicks into place.
things do change.
i guess they do.
