stew, your hands are shaking. you have been drinking again.
come on, come on. here they come, gallagher! here they come!
the boss is getting hoarse.
there is the third one. if i do not get the last one, there is a certain sob sister i know that is going to get a kick right in the . . . oh! whoops, almost had that.
look, i quit!
yeah?
yeah.
yeah?
you are always picking on me. it took me three hours to get those little gadgets in those holes, and you screw it up in a minute. hey, look!
aagh! no wonder you are batty. would it be imposing too much upon you if i asked you to do a little work today? just to sort of break the monotony?
with me you can always do business.
do you know what to do in a drawing- room?
it is not a question of knowing what to do, it is knowing how to get in one that counts.
now listen, we have got a tip that the schuyler family has finally made a deal with that chorus dame.
gloria golden?
yeah, little gloria.
the human cash register. got her hooks into the schuyler kid, eh?
right - for the first time this year.
well - it is only april.
come on, get going, get going!
get going where? i can write that yarn without stepping out of the office.
yeah - and get us into a million dollar libel suit. it would not be the first time. now, you get over there and get a statement out of the old lady, the sister, or the kid. any of them - but get it.
all right. give me a voucher for expenses.
what expenses? all you need is carfare to long island. you would better get a shave and a shine, because you, you are going to have a tough time getting in there as it is.
i know those bluenoses. their ancestors refused to come over on the mayflower because they did not want to rub elbows with the tourists. so they swam over.
you should have known better than to write, romeo. i found that out a long time ago.
i should say you had. at the rate you two are going, we will have to leave the country to save our faces.
splendid, mother. let's hop over to monte carlo. it is a great place to save a face.
oh, shut up!
what is it, smythe?
pardon me, madam - but what am i to say to the newspapermen?
oh, smythe, some bicarbonate of soda, quick - double strength. i know those news mongrels[3] will upset me.
I have anticipated it, madame. the bicarbonate is ready.
there are no gentlemen on the tribune.
i understand, sir.
say, take it easy! take it easy! listen, my boy. no use you hanging around here. just buy the tribune tonight and read all about it. you can rewrite it for your last edition.
could not make the last edition. it would take me four hours to translate your story into english.
oh, is that so?
I am afraid.
impossible. put it on again.
hey, make up your mind, will you?
what is the matter? is not there a 'bless you' in the crowd?
you are the tribune man?
yeah, hello. how are you?
fine. have a seat.
thanks, i will.
this way.
oh, man!
fine newspaper the tribune.
well, i should say!
i knew your managing editor very well.
is that so?
yale '21, i believe.
huh?
we were classmates.
i got him his job on the paper. I am a stock-holder, you know.
is that so?
as one tribune man to another
yeah!
but right now I am acting in the capacity of mrs. schuyler's attorney.
oh, that is all right with me. i will not hold it against you. but you see, I am here to find out about
i know, i know. but there is no truth in the story whatsoever.
oh yeah?
so, you see how silly that rumor is?
why, sure. it is a lotta hooey.
that is what i wanted to say, but i could not think of it.
thank you very much.
all right, all right, do not mention it.
give my regards to your managing editor.
i certainly will.
nice set of conrads you have out there, mrs. schuyler. i was just glancing through this one.  what is michael tearing the paper about?
just a habit. mr. schuyler is a bit put out by all the rumors going around.
rumors? rumors? since when is a breach-of-promise case a rumor?
no breach-of-promise case has been filed. the matter has been settled out of court.
oh i see, but gloria does not seem to be satisfied with the twenty thousand dollars.
dexter grayson, you told me it was only ten thousandand you did not even get those letters from that jezebel!
oh, so you did give her ten thousand dollars, eh? and there are letters...
well, well. that takes it out of the rumor class, does not it?
we admit nothing. however, i have a little statement all prepared.
a statement? good.
i have it here.
good.
the man from the tribune seemed perfectly satisfied.
who, bingy? yeah, bingy would. he never saw fifty dollars before. you could have bought him for six bits. funny thing about bingy. the more he gets - the more he prints. he looks stupid, does not he? but oh how smart he gets when he bends over a typewriter.
i think you would better go.
go?! wait a minute - that is a great story! newspaper reporter was forcibly ejected from schuyler mansion, and
do not mind mother.
i do not mind her if you don't.
I am sure you are quite willing to be decent about this.
decent? why miss schuyler, i want to be noble.
you are not going to print this silly thing, are you?
no? why not?
you know something, lady, if you sold life insurance, I would go for a policy in sixty seconds.
oh, thank you, i knew you would understand.
may i use your telephone?
certainly. right over there.
you are all right.
you are sure going to be poison to that junior leaguer[4] from now on!
i hope not . . . I have got to call on her this morning!
you what?
sure, i must drop in on the mad wench. her wounds need soothing.
for heaven's sake, stew, are you completely bats? what for? i thought the story was cold. you can not go back there.
sure, the story is cold, but I am not. I am sizzling - look! psst!
and with it came love! oh gallagher, you have got to meet her. she is it
and that
and those and them.
well, I have seen her pictures, and i do not think she is so hot.
oh, you do not appreciate it. her pictures do not do her justice. why, gallagher, she is queenly - she is queenly - and i know queens!  and oh, has she got herself a nose - and i know noses too. that little snozzle of hers is the berries, i tell you. and is she cute when she throws that little snozzle to the high heavens!
of course i have not got a nose.
sure, sure. you have got a nose, gallagher. you have got a nose. but there is different women, gallagher. you know, like brewery horses and thoroughbreds.
on now, stew, do not be too hard on her. i would not call her a brewery horse.
gallagher! she is the real mccoy!
and the rest of us are truck horses?
there you go, talking like a woman!
well!
well, you are my pal, are not you? then do not turn female on me.
now, now jeeves.[5] was that nice? was that being a gentleman, jeeves? was it, jeeves? your name is jeeves, is not it?
the name is smythe.
smythe! well, well, well! with a y , huh?  congratulations! what a small world. brothers under livery. shake!  now, as a smith to a smythe
mrs. schuyler is not at home.
i know, i know. i waited outside till she went out. she is a very nice lady, but we do not vibrate well together.
that is a good idea - telephone the police. the number is spring 3100. get a couple of cops over and we can have a rubber of bridge.
you may go, smythe.
but i
now the lady said you may go
what do you want?
well, i tell you, yesterday when i was here, i had one of your books in my hand, and when i got outside, i realized i still had your book in my hand. so as long as i had your book in my hand, i thought i might as well take it home and read it. this morning, i got up and put your book in my hand, and here's your book in your hand.
that is considerate of you.
yeah, that was considerate of me. i recommend you read it.
I am not interested in your literary recommendations.
well, maybe it is a bit heavy for you. perhaps if you would like something lighter - something with a touch of romance
just listen to this  adorable babykins does her miss her baby? him sends his booful li'l sweetums a billion oceans full of kisses. bobo is so lonely!
just a moment. i do not see how that trash could possibly concern me.
ah!  but you do not know who bobo is. and you do not know who babykins is.
I am not interested. smythe will open the door.
where did you get those letters?
i stole them when i was interviewing babykins about bobo.
i suppose you are going to print them?
no - give you another guess.
oh, i do not need another guess. it is quite obvious.
so, it is obvious, huh?
will you step into the library?
sure, I will take a chance.
will - uh - five thousand be enough?
for what?
for the letters, of course.
i do not know how to thank you. mother'll be so grateful - she will probably want to kiss you.
your mother will want to kiss me? give me back my letters.  that is the breaks i get. it is the mothers that are always grateful to me.  here.
you are a peculiar person. why the other day i pleaded with you not to send in that story and
i know but that was news. this is blackmail and i do not like blackmail.
will not even pretend it is not a very great favor. i wish there was something i could do for you
well, you could make this table a little - uh - a little less wide.  there is something you can do for me, miss schuyler.
really?
yeah, i have not figured out the plot yet, but it is laid in a siberian village.
you are a bit eccentric, are not you?
me? no - most ordinary guy in the world, me. only one thing wrong with me
you do not wear garters!
I am just beginning to believe that something could be done with you.
say, you could do anything with me you wanted to. putty - just putty, that is me.  now getting back to those eyes of yours - would you mind if i kind of got closer so i could see them?
not if you are going to lose any sleep about it.
that is an excellent idea.
oh, hello mother!
what is this person doing here?
why
as a matter of fact, i was just trying to decide the color of anne's eyes. i can not tell whether they are blue, or whether they are violet. what would you say, mrs. schuyler?
why
indeed? perhaps he will do me a great favor.
with pleasure, madame!
get out of here.
oh, mother!
it is all right. it is all right, anne. i can take a hint. a bit subtle, but i get it. it is all right.
please go. I will explain to mother.
oh, stew and i went for a long ride.  dexter, is there any finishing school we can send him to?
yes - sing sing.
yes, it will be a very interesting experiment.
to make a gentleman out of a tramp?
exactly.
now, anne, you remember how much it cost to get rid of that baseball player?
you do not seem to understand that this one's different. he has brains.
hello, natalie. mr. stewart smith . . . miss montgomery, mrs. eames, mrs. radcliff, mr. radcliff
how-di-do.
why should i? we are happy, are not we, darling?
throw me out - because I am beginning to get goofy ideas, and they concern you, anne.
none of your ideas can be goofy, stew, if they concern me.
my name is smith - well, that you seem to have been able to stand for the last month. I am white, male and over twenty-one. I have never been in jail - that is, not often. and i prefer scotch to bourbon. i hate carrots, i hate peas, i like black coffee and i hate garters. i make seventy-five bucks a week and I have got eight hundred and forty-seven bucks in the bank - and - i do not know yet whether your eyes are blue or violet.
that is because you are too far away, stew.
now listen boss, if you are going to kick about that expense account
do you call yourself a reporter?
it has been alleged - yes
you would not know news if you fell into a mess of it, nose first. so you are the bright lad that is never been scooped!
not on my own beat, no.
no? well, where were you when that happened?
I have heard of people being scooped on their own funerals, but this! holy mackerel! why, it is news when anne schuyler gets her fingernails manicured, but this! she gets married to one of our own reporters and the tribune beat us to it!  well! what do you guys want? go on, get back to your desks. go back to your work.  now do not tell me you were drunk at the time and do not remember! or is this one of bingy's snow-storms?
no, no - it is true, all right, only we did not want to get it in print yet, that is all.
why not?
well, you see, I have acquired one of those new mother-in-laws, and we were afraid she would not understand the whole idea. so we were going to wait till she went to europe.
what do i care about your mother- in-law! you are still working for this paper, are not you! or are you?
yes, sir.
well, it is your business to get news! and here you had a story right in your own lap and you let the tribune scoop us on it. making a first class grade a monkey out of me. if it ever happens again - just do not bother about coming back. that is all.
well, well, well! gallagher, old pal! there you are. what did you run away for?
i did not run away.
sure, you ran away. are not you going to congratulate a guy?
sure. i wish you all the luck in the world, pal.
thanks, thanks.
i hope you will be very happy.
oh sure, we will be happy. what is the matter with your eyes?
it is the smoke.
joe! a little snifter.  say, was not i a lucky guy to fall into a girl like that, huh?  look at that! i do not know how i rate that, gallagher. gosh, there is a swell girl. i want you to meet her.
who me? she would not want to meet me. I am just an old load of hay.
ah! thank you, joe.  tell you what - we will have one of those parties down at your house - one of those spaghetti parties, you know. gee, we have not had one of those in a long time, have we gallagher?
not since you broke into society.
remember the time we had a spaghetti party, and while i was serving the spaghetti i dropped it on the floor, and while those mugs were not looking, i picked it up and served it to them anyway! remember that? yes, anne would love that.
do you think your wife would walk up three flights of stairs just to eat out of paper plates?
who - anne? sure, anne would love that.
remember, she is a schuyler.
now get this, gallagher - smith. that is the name.
my error.
well, if she does not want to come, I will come down alone.
oh no, you won't, mr. smith. you are a married man now. mother always warned me never to run around with married men.
say, what kind of a pal are you? you are not going to leave me flat?
oh, I will call you up some time. and if your social duties permit - why -
cut that out. just because I am married - there is no reason for that.
gallagher and myself just came over here to do a little work on a story -
baloney!  joe! bring me a special!
well, when are you quitting?
quitting? I am not thinking about quitting.
mr. schuyler .
now get this, conroy. my name is smith. always was smith - and always gonna be smith.
is that so?
that is so.
just a boid in a gilded cage -
a what?
you heard me. a bird in a gilded cage.
aw, you have been reading a lot of cheap tabloids. anne and myself are going to move downtown in a nice little flat, we are going to forget all about this social stuff, and we are going to be known as mr. and mrs. stew smith. how do you like that?
and live on your salary, i suppose?
yeah, live on my salary - that is, until i finish writing my play.
what play?
my play.
the one about the siberian bloodhound?
siberian bloodhound?  no. that is been all rewritten. it is laid in araby now.
araby?
sure.
araby, my eye!
well, I am sorry to see a good reporter go blooey  let me know when you are quitting.
I am not quitting!
no?
no!
'for he is only a bird in a gilded cage, a beautiful sight to see'  tweet, tweet - ha, ha
do not pay attention to him, stew. he does not know what he is talking about.
pay attention? I am not paying any attention to him. you think that guy could get me upset? hah! not that mug. he is a tough mug - hard, cynical. he does not know the fine things in life - that guy.  a bird in a gilded cage, huh? it is getting so a guy can not step out without being called a magnolia. stew smith, a magnolia! not me. say, I am not going to hang around and be a speakeasy rat all my life! I will tell you that. not me, not me. I am going to step out and mean something in this world. you watch me.  say, am i a lucky guy to be near anne schuyler?  I have been hit with a carload of horseshoes, and believe me i know it. lucky, I will say I am lucky!  do not you think I am lucky, gallagher?
sure - i think so, stew.
i knew you would, pal.  a bird in a gilded cage, eh?
how is her family going to feel about it?
her family? oh, they will be all right. I will bring them around.  gilded cage?!  besides, I am not marrying her family. stew smith in a gilded cage! stew smith? ha!  that mug. what does he know?
some bicarbonate - quick!
double strength!
it is a good thing your father passed away before he saw insanity ravage the family. i can not imagine what made you do such a thing. a reporter! of all things, a reporter! a barbarian who lets his socks come down!
mother, i promise you that he will not be a reporter much longer. once i get him away from that atmosphere and get him away from a man named gallagher
sit down!
nobody seems to want to do anything  why not ask me? perhaps i can offer a suggestion. do what about what?
about what? your marriage to anne!
oh, my marriage to anne. now mrs. schuyler, we do not want you to go to any trouble about that. we just want the usual blessings, that is all.
now mother, your attitude is perfectly ridiculous. it is done now. stewart and i are married.
I am afraid she is right, mrs. schuyler. I am really very sorry, mrs. schuyler, that you feel this way. i was in hopes that you would like me. I am not the burglar that you think i am. after all, we are married. i think the thing to do is to kiss and make up - mother.
stop calling me mother!
all right, grandma
this man's impossible! i can not talk to him. grayson, let's go where we can talk - hic!  see what you have done to me!?
a little? sure, I will be right up.  he is all right. i like him.
I am glad.
what is the matter? something i et, no doubt. egg marks the spot
you ought to get some new ties, stewart.
i do not need any new ties. I have got another tie - I have got another one besides this one. and it is a pip, too. there is only one thing wrong with it. you know what that is?  it has a little weakness for gravy, and once in a while it leans a little toward ketchup. of course that is only in its weaker moments. when you move down to my place, I will show it to you.
your place?
yeah. oh, it is great. of course it does not compare with this coliseum of yours here, but 'twill serve m'lady, 'twill serve.  the architecture has a little feeling of missouri gothic - and the furniture sort of leans toward oklahoma renaissance - with a tiny touch of grand rapids.
do not you think it is silly of us to think of living there when we have this whole big house
when 'we' . . .?  you mean, you would like to have me live here in your house?
we could have the whole left wing? would not that be nice! would that be room enough for us?
oh darling, of course it would. if it is not - there are six rooms and two baths - but if that is not enough, mother will give us the blue room too, i think.
oh, mother will give us the blue room. you have not a red room, have you?  well, bless her heart. would not that be nice! my, oh my - six rooms and two baths and a blue room. i guess she would let us have the right wing if we needed it, would not she?
but we do not need it, I am sure.
i see, we will not need that. plenty of room, plenty of room.
look anne, you are not serious about this, are you?
of course i am stewart.
now let's get this settled
you have the cutest nose I have
never mind my nose. what kind of a chump do you think i am? you think I am going to live here in your house - on your dough?  what do you think my friends would all say? do not be silly. I would get the razzing of my life for that. 'a bird in a gilded cage' - that is what I would be. not me. oh no, not me!
what do you think my friends would say if they found me in a little cheap flat?
it is not cheap. it is nice.
listen stew baby, let's not talk about things like that now
wait a minute. I will do anything you ask me, anne, but i will not live
oh, i love that nose. it is such a sweet nose.
how do you like your bath, sir?
i like my bath all right. how do you like your bath?
who are you?
I am your valet, sir. dawson is the name, sir.
you are my what?
your valet, sir.
thank you, thank you, thank you! I will do that for you some time. that is very sweet. say listen, what did you say your name was?
dawson, sir.
dawson, huh? was i very drunk last night?
drunk, sir?
yes. i must have been pretty much plastered if i hired a valet.
oh, but you did not engage me, sir.
did you take anything out of those pants?
oh no, sir!
what are you doing fooling around in here?
miss schuyler - i mean, mrs. smith - she engaged me this morning, sir.
say, you are nice. you are all right. you would make a good wife.
thank you, sir.
but not for me!  though i like you well enough. you are a nice fellow. you are all right. but I am sorry i do not need any valleys today.
are you trying to tell me that i need someone to help me put on my pants and button them up?
quite so. quite.
now I am sorry. i appreciate your efforts. but i do not need anybody to help me button my pants - I have been buttoning my pants for thirty years all right, and i can button 'em with one hand as a matter of fact.
now mr. smith, now please
all right, outside!
i beg your pardon, sir?
outside!
i think i understand, sir. you mean you want me to go?
there you are. you caught on. you see, you are nice and you are smart too. you caught on right away. outside! go on! outside! and do not come back!
that is a canary, sir.
that is a canary! who brought that in here? canary, huh? go on, get that out of here. get that out of here!
yes, sir. very good, sir.
a bird! a bird in a gilded cage! get that thing out of here!
yes sir!
I have got a present. shut your eyes. keep 'em closed. i know you are going to love them.
little - could not be an automobile, could it?  well, well! am not that nice!
do you like them?
got my initials on them too. they are cute. they are nice little things - what do you do with them?
you wear them of course, silly.
oh no. no, no. not me. i have not worn these things for years.
i know that.
besides I would look foolish. i could not look gallagher in the face.
darling, i do not care whether you can look gallagher in the face or not, but you are going to be a good boy and wear garters.
honey, i love you. I will eat spinach for you. I will go to the dentist twice a year for you. I will wash behind my ears for you. but i will never wear garters!
oh, yes you will my dear - oh, yes you will my dear - you will wear garters and you will like it too!
oh, no i will not my dear - oh, no i will not my dear - I will wash behind my ears, but no i will not my dear!
oh, yes you will my dear - oh, yes you will my dear - you will eat spinach but you will wear garters too!
oh, you can not carry a tune - you can not carry a tune - all you are good for is to sit and spoon, spoon. oh no, i will not wear garters
oh yes you will wear garters
yes.
I am miss wilson - mrs. schuyler's social secretary.
i was sent from the post in place of our social editor.
yes, of course. miss ramsey telephoned me. well, what would you like to have?
why, a list of the guests. that is the usual thing, is not it?
yes, of course. I will get it for you
that is a lovely dress.
thank you.  where is mr. smith?
mr. smith? oh, you mean ann schuyler's husband?
yes.
he is probably very tired. you see, he is had to meet all these people personally tonight.
i bet.
you newspaper people have a lot of fun with him, do not you? what is it you call him - the cinderella man?
mr. smith, I have read some of your plays and I would like an autograph.
well, well! if it is not my old friend! turn around, gal! let's get a look at you.
there you are!
well, daughter of the slums - how did you get out of the ghetto?
I am pinch-hitting for our society editor tonight. i wanted to see some life in the raw.
aw, you wanted to see some life in the raw, huh? well gal, I am afraid we am not got no raw life up here.
well, I will have to look someplace else.
no, no! maybe we could interest you in some well done butterflies, or perhaps some slightly fried pansies, or better still, some stuffed shirts. and guaranteed every one of them will give you a good stiff pain in the neck.
say, who is been tying your ties lately? it looks rotten.
gee gallagher, do you look good! what are you doing to yourself?
nothing.
what did you do to that hair? and where did you get that dress?
i dyed one and washed the other.
oh, you dyed one and washed the other. well! you certainly look good.
do not turn around now - but there is a very beautiful girl up there who seems to be staring at us.
staring at us?
my mistake - she is glaring.
must be my wife.
anne, prepare yourself for the treat of your life. this is gallagher.
gallagher!
sure - my pal on the paper. she is subbing for the society editor tonight.
oh, yes, of course. how do you do?
gallagher, this is mrs. smith.
you know, stewart, you failed to mention that miss gallagher was a very beautiful young girl.
gallagher?
yes. as a matter of fact, you failed to mention that gallagher was a girl.
did not i? that is funny. is not it funny?
yes - is not it?
no? what do you look upon her as?
why, down at the office, we always look at gallagher as - eh - just gallagher, that is all.
they all consider me just as one of the boys.
right!
indeed? how interesting.
yes - is not it.
miss wilson will give you the guest list and any other details you may need, miss gallagher.
thank you. I will go and look for her at once. goodbye, mrs. smith.
goodbye, miss gallagher.
goodbye, stew
that was kind of a rotten thing to do, anne. after all, gallagher is my friend. the least you can do is be courteous to her.
i thought i was very charming, stewart.
you did? that is a lot of hooey! I will go and apologize.
I am sorry, gallagher - really, i am sorry.
oh, that is all right, stew. forget it. as far as she is concerned, I am just part of the hired help.
no, no. strange, I have never seen anne act that way before.  it is funny i never thought to tell her you were a girl, is not it?
yes.
hello, there, meadows![13]
who is it you wish to see, sir?
i want to see stew smith. oh excuse me - i mean mr. smith.
pardon me, mr. smith is engaged. we are having a reception here this evening
oh, a party! great, great! jolly times and merry pranks. that is me. I am a guy who loves parties. you know
a beautiful pair of shoulders! but listen now, as a favor, will you please make it snappy, laughing waters,[14] and tell stew smith i got to see him because if you do not my whole family's going to die.
I will tell mr. smith at once, sir. have a seat.
well, i got a seat, but i have no place to put it.
what do you want?
oh, nothing. i just blew over - i wanted to see how the old newshound looked made up for a gentleman.
would you like to have me turn around for you, bingy?
oh boy, I would love it.
how is that?
not bad - not good - but not bad. you ought to be able to fool about almost anybody.
is that so? well, have you seen enough - or would you like a photograph?
a photograph? what is the matter? has not mama had you done in oils yet?  "just a gigolo . . . "
now get this mug. you have got the kind of chin i just love to touch. and if you do not get out of here, I am going to hang one right on it.
i bring a message from garcia.
yeah?
yeah. the boss sent me over to offer you a job. he wants you to write a daily column on the tribune.
yeah - go on.
it is all right. you can write your own ticket. a hundred and fifty bucks a week.
I will bite. what is the catch?
there is no catch. this is on the up and up. of course all you have to do is just sign the article - by anne schuyler's husband.
well done, sir. very neat.
that is what i think of it, bingy!
smythe, the - er - gentleman is leaving.
yes, sir.
good morning, mother. did not i tell you that he would be marvelous. everybody thought he was so charming last night.
i was so worried for fear he would knock over a vase or something. i must have acted like an idiot.  what does it say about the reception last night?
oh, the usual thing. blah, blah, blah attended the blah, blah reception and wore the same blah, blah things.
stop it. anne. you are behaving like the person you are married to.
you do not have anything to complain about, mother. he was all right last night, was not he? i told you not to worry about him.
it was a miracle. the man was ill or something.
ah-ah-ah!
mother!
look! look! the front page!
double-strength!
"cinderella man grows hair on chest!"
good morning, everybody  well, maybe it is not a good morning, huh?  anne, did you ever get the feeling that there was someone else in the room with you?
have you seen this?
yes - the worm!
i beg your pardon?
he is a worm - and I am going to step on him!
to engage in a brawl! a cheap, common brawl, in my own home! "i wear the pants!" the pants ! not even the trousers!
I have tried to stop the evening papers, but it is useless.
you quit trying to stop anybody
well, at best you might deny it.
why deny it? the more you deny, the more they print. let them alone! the thing to do is to sit still and keep our traps shut.
traps shut!
certainly! I will take care of this guy bingy myself, personally.  now what are you crying about?
is this true, stewart? did you really say it?
yes, i said it. sure, i said it. i did not say it for publication, however.
and you struck him right here in our house?
yes, I am sorry, i struck him right here in your house. and I will strike anybody in anybody's house that calls me a cinderella man.
well, what else do you expect them to call you?
dexter.
that is the fourteenth crack you have made to me. I am keeping count. when you get to twenty, I am going to sock you right on the nose. as a matter of fact, i ought to sock you right now.
anne schuyler, are you going to sit there and watch this man insult us? have not you any decency left?
why does not dexter show some decency? and you might show some too, mother. what do you expect a man to do when he is called such names?  I am glad you hit that reporter, stewart. he deserved it.
all right, all right! it is your funeral, anne schuyler!
pardon me, madam. they phoned through from the mayor's committee to remind you it is past the hour for the reception.
are the cars ready?
they have been ready for the last half hour.
stewart! we are all waiting for you. where is your valet?
i poisoned him.
stop trying to be funny, and get ready, will you?
I am not going!
what are you talking about?
I am talking about - I am not going out.
what am i going downstairs and tell those people?
go downstairs, and tell them - anything. tell them I am not going. tell them I am not home.
stewart, would you mind telling me why you are not going?
yes, I will tell you - for the same reason I have never wanted to go out with those social parasites, those sweet-smelling fashion plates. i do not like them. they bore me. they give me the jitters.
anne, come here. listen
look out for my lipstick, stewart.
I will tell you what. let's you and me sneak out all by ourselves
are you crazy?
think of the fun we can have - we will sneak down the back stairs and get in the valet's ford. how is that?
will you stop being silly, stewart?
I will tell you what let's do - I will take you and introduce you to all my gang. would you like that?
but i do not want to meet your gang.
i do not mean the newspaper fellows that you do not like. another gang i know - you would love them. they are writers and musicians and artists - a great crowd of people - people who do great things. people who are worthwhile.
meaning, my friends are not worthwhile, i suppose?
oh, they are all right, anne. but i
that is exactly what you mean. heaven knows you have made that clear to me often enough. well, I am sick and tired of it. I have given you party after party - I have taken you to some of the best houses in this town - and introduced you to people of importance - and are you grateful? no! you insult them and act like a bore. I am sick and tired of having to make excuses for you and the things that you have done. perhaps it is just as well you are not coming tonight. maybe i can enjoy myself for once without having to worry about you, and what you are going to do.
did you call, sir?
smythe, come here. i want to talk to you.  come on, smythe, talk to me. smythe, I am going nuts. I am going nuts in this house! this big . . . come on, I am not going to hurt you. come on, what is the matter with you?
shhh! do you hear something?
yes, sir.
you try it.
me, sir?
yeah.
no, that is enough. i just wanted you to get the idea. now you know. this house is haunted.
no, sir!
yes. have you looked in the closets all over . . .?
yes, sir.
found no skeletons?
no, sir.
it is haunted just the same.
yes, sir.
smythe, what do you do with yourself - i mean, when you are not carrying those double-strength - what do you do with yourself?
well, sir, i putter.
smythe! i mean - when you are alone and want to amuse yourself, then what?
i just putter.
hmmm, you just putter. do you have to have a putter to putter?
oh no, sir. i putter with me hands.
well, is not that nice? you just go right ahead and putter with your hands. that is all right. how do you do it?
well sir, I will show you.
that is puttering, sir.
no! well, well, well! that is all right, if you like it. can anybody do that?
oh no, sir. some people are natural putterers. others can never master it.
oh my. you mean, some people are born and never will become putterers?
yes sir.
oh my, would not that be tragic? to know that you could never be a putterer.
yes sir.
how about me?  do you think if i concentrated and put my whole soul into it, that some day i might be a putterer?
you sir? uh-uh. you could never be a putterer. not a good putterer, sir.
well, if i could not be a good putterer, i would not want to putter. but why? what makes you think i could not be a good putterer?
well sir, to be a putterer, one's mind must be at ease. a person with a problem could never be a putterer. for instance, sir, a fish can putter in water but not on land because he would be out of place. an eagle can putter around a rugged mountaintop but not in a cage, because he would be restless and unhappy. now sir, if you will pardon me, with all due respect, sir, as a smythe to a smith, you are an eagle in a cage.
a bird in a gilded cage?
yes.
that is all i wanted to know!
smythe, I will get this. I am expecting some friends.
very good, sir.
well, gallagher! glad to see you.
hello, stew.
hello, hank. how are you?
fine, but kinda thirsty.
come right in - I will get you a drink.
okay - you remember joe
sure.
i sort of invited him along to bend an elbow. you do not mind, do you?
it is all right. bring him in.
come in, joe. it is all right.
hello, joe.
I am sorry nobody could come.
the rest of the gang had to get out the morning edition - but they will be down later.
now hank, are you sure they are coming?  it will be lonesome without them.  smythe, take this crowd in there and give them a drink. and find out what the boys in the back room want!
it is not done, gentlemen! it is not done, i say! it is not done!
well, gallagher, you certainly took no chances, did you?
I am sorry, stew. i asked hank, and hank did the rest.
i see. hank brought them all. that is all right. we will give them a drink and throw 'em out. how is that?
okay.
smythe! give them one drink and throw 'em out!
is there a green elephant standing beside that bwana?
no, it is just little bingy baker.
big chief bingy come to white man's tepee to make friends. big chief very sorry. to show how sorry - will bend over and let white man kick big chief where sun never shines.
excuse me, gallagher. i would not miss this one for the world.
well, stew, that is all thrashed out. by golly, I am surely glad to see that you are not really sore. you know our racket - after all, news is news.
sure, sure. that is all right. that was a great story, bingy. a great story - wish I would printed it.
i gave you the breaks, did not i? that hairy chest story!
you have raised it up to the chin, i see.  go on in the other room and get yourself a drink.
you know what i should do with you? i should sock you right in that funny little nose.
yes - and I would love it.
how far have you gotten?
well, I have just been able to get off that norway coast - so far.
well, you are not getting your play done, but you are certainly covering a lot of territory.
have not i covered some territory? it feels like I have been on a cook's tour[18] some place.
stewart, have you ever been to old madrid?
been where?
to old madrid.
never even been to new madrid.
then how do you expect to write about it?
oh - draw on my imagination, i suppose.
did conrad draw on his imagination?
did who?
conrad.
what do you know about conrad?
i do not know a thing about him, but is not he the one you are always yelling about?
is not he the one that always writes about things - only the things he knows about?
right.
did not he go to sea before he wrote about it?
right.
then why do not you write about something you know?  write about yourself and anne. the poor boy who marries a rich girl - now there is a swell theme.
gee, that is an idea, gallagher. that is an idea there. i wonder now...
oh, sure. she would make a beautiful heroine...
and there is her mother - and what a character that old dame would make with her double-strength - and that lawyer friend of theirs - he would make a great villain - and there is you!
what could i be?
you could be something.  I have got an idea, gallagher. let's get this set. that is a great idea for a play. pal, get me a cigarette, will you?
here you are.
all right, thanks. now, let's see. how will i start? hey pal, how would you start?
smythe, you have been drinking.
i have. double-strength!
now gallagher, if we could only get a great scene - a tremendously emotional scene - something that would just wring the hearts out of the public - to bring the curtain down in the second act - that would be okay. could not dig one out of your hat some place, could you?
nope - afraid I am all out of tricks tonight.
now, we have got it right up to where the boy's wearing his white spats and going to teas and the frau enters - how is that?
very good.
oh hello, anne he types furiously.
good morning. what does this mean?
oh, that mob downstairs. i guess i got so interested in the play i forgot all about them.
i see.
have we got a play, anne? oh, have we got a play!  of course most of it is gallagher's. she did most of it. that brain of hers just snaps like that all the time.
i think i better go, stew.
i think you should, miss gallagher.
what is the idea, anne?
the idea is simply this - that i want those people to leave here immediately.
now wait a minute. are not you being a little unreasonable?
unreasonable!  have you any idea what the place looks like downstairs? do you expect me to stand here and see this place turned into a cheap barroom?
now wait, do not get excited, anne. there is no reason for that. perhaps the boys have had a little too much to drink. that is all right. I am sorry. I will go right down and throw them out. that is no reason for you to take this attitude. after all, i certainly have a right to invite a few of my friends to my house, have not i?
your house?
o-o-oh, i get you  all right. all right. i do not blame you. i kinda forgot myself for a moment, there. that is what i call getting me told, is not it, anne?
and if it is all the same to you, I am moving out.
stewart!
this is something i should have done a long time ago, only i did not have sense enough to do it. no, i had to stick around here to try and make a success of something that i knew darn well was a failure from the very beginning. but no more. no more! so that is that.
you can not walk out of here like this.
what is going on here? who is this woman?
joan of arc! what is it to you?
heavens! the man's insane!
sure I am insane, but I have got some good news for you.  this magnolia is leaving your sweet smelling vanilla joint. this bird in a cage is going to button his own pants from now on. and that is what is known as telling the mother- in-law.
you have done nothing but watch me - watch me! - ever since I have been here. treated me like a thug, watched me like a hawk, mistrusted me. every time i leave the house, that jane  goes out and counts the silverware.
that is ridiculous.
fine!  i do not blame her. i know I am out of my own crowd. i should have had better sense in the beginning. but I will stay in my own backyard from now on.
you are acting like a child.
all right, I am a child. have it any way you want. but I am going back to my own apartment, where i should have lived in the first place. but no, i got to listen to you and move here. all right. if you want to live with me, anne, okay. but the sign outside will say "mr. stew smith" and you will have to be "mrs. stew smith" or there is nothing doing. no more anne schuyler's husbandhe has his bag all packed by this time. he snaps it shut viciously, lifts it off the chair, picks up his hat, and notices mrs. schuyler staring open-mouthed at him.  and here's some more news for you. you can take your red room, your green room, your left wing and your right wing, and you know what you can do with them!  come on, gallagher.
i would not worry too much about it, stew. she will see it your way.
huh?  oh, I am not worrying about her - I am worrying about that second act curtain, that is all.
hey, gallagher!
yeah?
how about my breakfast? how do you expect me to ring a curtain down on an empty stomach?
it will be ready in a minute.
never mind that. if you can not get my breakfast ready - and can not get here on time in the morning - then you can go get yourself another job.
sorry, boss
do not be sorry. just get the breakfast, that is all.
hello, smith.
holy jumping swordfish!
i suppose you know why i came?
no, i have no idea - unless some of the silver-ware is missing.
now do not be absurd, smith  may i come in?
surely, come right in.
thanks. may i sit down?
surely, sit down. if i had known you were coming, i would have thrown you up a waffle.
i do not eat waffles.
you don't.
anne asked me to come and see you about the divorce.
she did?
she wants me to arrange the financial settlement.
listen grayson, I have got 106 bucks and 75 cents in the bank. now anne can have any part of that she wants, but she would better hurry because I am spending it awfully fast.
you do not seem to understand. anne does not expect anything from you.
wait a minute. do i get from you that she wants to pay me alimony?
that is putting it crudely, but
remember what i told you about that twentieth crack? all right, you have just made it. before you go unconscious i want you to get this through your nut.
i beg your pardon.
unconscious. you know, when you do not know anything. your natural state. there are some people - you can not buy their self-respect for a bucket of shekels - well, i happen to be one of those guys.
we just thought that
do not think. let me do all the thinking. now you go back to that schuyler outfit and tell them that i did not marry that dame for her dough and i do not want any of her dough now. i was too poor to buy her a wedding present when we got married, so I am giving her a divorce for a wedding present. now, stand up!
yes.
and now for that twentieth crack
who was that?
grayson - anne's lawyer.
what did he want?
gallagher, that guy just dropped by to give us a great opening for the third act.
it is a swell idea, gallagher. how is this?  the wife's family lawyer comes to see the kid, see - to talk over the divorce. then this guy insults the poor but honest boy by offering him alimony - so the kid gets sore, socks the lawyer in the nose and throws him out. how is that for the beginning of the third act, huh?
well, from now on the play will be easy. all you have to do is bring the wife back, have her say she is sorry, and then your play's over.
what other girl?
the little o'brien girl, of course - the one you suggested in the story.
but that is ridiculous! you can not make a sudden change like that.
gallagher, what are you going to do - tell me how to write a play?
no.
there is nothing sudden about that  he is always loved the girl, but he was such a sap he did not have sense enough to tell her. well, that is all right - we can fix that. he will go to the little o'brien girl, and - here, I will show you.
