hey big harold, gimme your peaches for the fruitcake man.
fuck you bitch.
c'mon man, did not i do you right that time i give you the turkey loaf for the ham and lima beans shit.
tricky bitch, reason you gimme dat turkey loaf is nobody else can eat that shit 'cept me so do not start your game playing with me junior.
youse a pig man. i hope manny get dat laundry gig for' you do.
de fool think he is going to get it but he am not known for his thinking.
he is a fool alright but you a bigger fool. hey, whiteboy, watcha waiting for - dat hole am not going to dig itself...
hey taylor, you do not know it but i saved your ass today. i killed a shit-eating dog.
that reminds me, i gotta take a shit.
you gonna wipe your ass dis time?
yeah if you let me have your shirt.
we got boo-coo movement. 3rd battalion just got hit 15 kliks north of here.
yeah, they had claymores strung up in the trees, blew a whole fucking platoon to pieces. baad shit.
elias - you take your squad and I will take tex and francis from your squad.  we move out in two-zero mikes.
i thought it was o'neill's turn tonight.
shit! morehouse and sal are short. fu sheng's going on r&r, you do not want to send their asses out on an ambush. you got the fresh meat elias.
they do not know shit barnes, and chances are we going to run into something.
so what am i going to do! get one of my guys zapped so some fuckface fresh from the world can get his beauty fucking sleep!
hey o'neill why do not you cool it, you do not have to be a prick everyday of your life, you know.
fuck you elias.
don babytalk him man. cocksucker fell asleep. they walked right up on us, he don do shit.
shaddup bitch.
blood trail just keeps going and going but no body.
how the hell did he get away?
fuckers returned fire soon as we lit 'em up. hard core fuckin' nva. they got their shit together.
excuses are like assholes, taylor - everybody got one.
knock it off! we got two men need attention here. police up your extra ammo and frags, do not leave nothing for the dinks. hoyt, junior, carry gardner.
okay - got light duty, three days.
shit, too bad we in base camp anyway.
what you got there - beers?
yeah, just stole me some from the top's supply but he is stealing it from us anyway.  chucks are coming. you better 'didi' man.
...motherfuckah, motherfuckah, I am too short to be dealing with this shit! they keep fucking with us man, no letup...
politics man, fuckin' politics. that o'neill man got his nose so far up top's ass he got to be pinocchio...
forty-two days man and a wakeup and I am a gone motherfucker. back to de world.
broke a 100. got 92 to go. april 17. deros man. california this summer. waves are good they tell me, surfin's going to be good...
march man in tennessee, sniff the pines... sniff that crossmounted pussy walkin' down by the river. what you got taylor?  let's see three hundred and what?
how the fuck you get over here man, you look like you educated...
i volunteered.
you what? say 'gain.
yeah, i dropped out of college and told 'em i wanted infantry, combat, and nam...
you volunteered for this shit man?
you a crazy fucker, givin' up college man.
what we got here a crusader?
sounds like it.
you okay man? neck botherin' you?
nah...
here have some of this. will not feel a thing.
no, thanks...
go on, whatcha got to lose, yo' here now...
...you know that night we got hit... i...
fuck it, do not mean nothing, no such thing here as a coward, done your best man, next time y'do better.
yo getting there taylor. you be cool now and I will introduce you 'round to some of the 'heads'.
what are the heads?
later...
whatcha doing in the underworld taylor?
this am not taylor. taylor been shot. this man chris been resurrected...
you lame taylor?
what?
you lame or something?
and baaaaaaa! back on you.
if you are going to do it man, 'least do it right.
i did not like it.
bah, you are a child, lerner. rhah do not waste time on you.
first time?
yeah.
then the worm has definately turned for you man.
feel good?
yeah. no pain in my neck now. feels good.
feelin' good's good enough.
...but what did she do?
what did not she do. she fucked the living shit outta me, that is what she did!
but what did she actually do?
she was a crossbreed, chinese and polish.
merle?
merle? jesus!... patty?
dawn! that was it!
dawn...
listen to that shit, that is good shit!
fuck that redneck noise, dude. all dem chicks be rappin' how dey losin' der' ho's and how dey am not got no bread for beer. fuck dat honky shit. got to get me some motown jams, dig it?
whaddaya talking shit for man. hey junior! y'ever smoke any shit?
das right dude. you be tryin' to string de black man out on dat shit and keep him down. time's be coming, my man, when de black man's going to throw off that yoke.
say i can dig it. smoke that shit everything kinda gets weird y'know?  y'hear that story the gooks is putting chemicals in the grass so's we become 'pacifists' so's we don fight  where the hell's everybody, they'se gettin high that is what - bunch of hopheads, they think they special...
don you worry bunny, youse a killer anyway.
yeah but i still like a piece of pussy once in a while - am not nothing like a piece of pussy cept maybe the indie 500.
youse so fucked up man.
y'ever look at yoself in the mirror junior, youse uglier than a dick on a dog man.
yeah, you had a piece of pussy on a plate in front of you, you would probably kill it.
shit, i bet i been laid more'n you have.
sure, you probably stick it in tween her knees and think youse there.
yeah?
only way you would get some pussy is your bitch dies and wills it to you - and then maybe.
bunker...
where?
tell six we need engineers here, this pos. is crawling with traps.
they are on their way...  there is a gook village half a klik downriver, battalion wants us to move in and search it asap, something is going on... where is barnes?
la dai! la dai! get the fuck outta there!
hey take it easy man. they are scared.
they are scared? what about me! I am sick of this shit man, I am sick of this shit! they do not want us here! who do you think they are fighting for! get outta there!
what the fuck you doing!
stay out of this elias. this am not your show.
you am not a firing squad, you piece of shit!!
you are dead, you are fucking dead elias!
you - you are going to fuckin' jail, buddy, you am not getting away with this one!!!!!
alright, six says torch this place! blow the weapons in place. round up all suspected vee cees and shake it up! we am not got much light left.
why the fuck did not you do something lieutenant!
what are you talking about!
you know what I am talking about!
no i don't. i do not know what the fuck you are talking about, elias!
whew! - where that come from?
found it. growing in a garden.
sheeit, beats burning hutches anyway...
i know barnes six months and I will tell ya something - that man is mean, red in his soul like a dick on a dog.
barnes gets killed, his jaws'd go on clacking...
where is he from?
barnes comes from hell.
tennessee someplace. hill country.
barnes took a bullet right there. at ia drang valley...  and the cocksucker survived - that is baaad man. that is his high, baby. high on war!
he done a year in japan in the hospital, then when he gets out, the first thing he done is re-up. four years he been in the field...
...and you know how many times he done been shot?  seven times!  seven.
the good lord works his revenge in strange ways.
yeah, you done said it. revenge on us.
does he have a metal plate in his head?
you mean he is crazy? no more crazy'n the rest of us been out in the bush too long.
well he am not normal that is fo sure.
that is what he is... baaaa!
baaa, got no time to go to the movies. love and hate too busy fighting for possession of my soul.
where is elias come from?
'lias come naturally.
not the only man to meet his jezebel either.
so he got a reduced and come over here. nam's his freedom man, nam's his pussy. three years he been here.
three years, jesus, he is crazy as barnes...
well sometimes a man jes don' wanna go back. how you going to talk to civilians man? people back in the world just do not give a shit, y'know what i mean, to them you are a fuckin' animal is all -
i was home on leave y'know and everybody's just worried 'bout making money, everybody's out for themselves, they do not even want to talk about it man, it is like the fucking twilight zone back there - you would not even know there is a war on here. my sister says to me why you have to go there like i started this...
baaaa! fuck it, they sold us out - so what! what did you'all expect? civilian life is phoney bullshit man. they are robots man - watchin' dopey television and drivin' dopey cars, and they fuck up, nobody dies. that is all right, you keep fuckin' up, politicians keep lyin'. cause it do not really matter. do not mean shit. so what! whatcha want - a parade! fuck that too! no war time no grunt never got no respect. till he was dead - and even then! you are fighting for yourself man! you are fighting for your soul, dat's all. remember dat. and it is some goddamn battle too - if you'se a man, wrestle with that angel...  ...love and hate - the whole shitbang show, that is the story then and now and it am not hardly going to change...
...i can not sleep, why do not you get some sack time.
...don't feel like it either.
...beautiful night.
yeah. i love this place at night. the stars... there is no right or wrong in them, they are just there.
that is a nice way of putting it.
barnes got it in for you, do not he?
barnes believes in what he is doing.
and you, do you believe?
in '65 - yeah. now...  no. what happened today's just the beginning. we are going to lose this war...
you really think so... us?
oh shit! sometimes there is things in my head... man. grass does that to me, fucks me all up like a crazy indian...
do you believe that stuff about... knowing you are going to die?
yeah, those are the guys that live. i really do not think death gives a shit, it is like a giant garbage can, i think it takes whatever it can get... you never know where it is going to come from anyway... so why spin your wheels?
where is lerner?
out there man - behind the log.
where the fuck is red platoon! tell 'em to get their asses up here! what the fuck you doin' back here elias? round up your assholes and move 'em up front, we are getting chopped to shit.
barnes, listen to me... there is 5-6 spiderholes back there  next to the church.  third platoon's coming up the stream to reinforce us. flank's wide open, dinks get 3-4 snipers in these holes, when third platoon comes up, they will get us in a crossfire with 'em. we will shoot each other to shit, then they will hit us with everything they got. it will be a massacre!
sounds pretty far out to me 'lias.
maybe but i seen it happen at ia drang in '66, first cavalry and they cut us to fuckin' pieces!  give me three men, if I am wrong, i can still roll up that flank.
...you keep pouring out that suppressing fire, barnes. i do not wanna be caught out there with my ass hanging out you hear me?
do not tell me how to fight this fucking war, 'lias, you go crying to fucking brigade on your time. out here you belong to me. now move.
taylor - get your ass over here. move!
hang tough, gator. hang in there, man, you are going to be ok... just hang on.
I will go with you.
no... i move faster alone.
yeah! i got two of them fuckers...
i got one...
...see them go down? like fuckin' target practice man, fuck you charlie!! ho chi minh sucks dead dick!... crawford!
...but 'lias is still out there.
I will get him. you get the man in, taylor  now. or I will article 15 both your asses. move!
elias is dead. join up with the platoon. move it.
he is dead! where?... you saw him?
yeah. back about 100 metres. he is dead, now get going, the gooks are all over the fuckin' place.
shit boy you been out in the sun too long. you try that, he will stick it right back up your ass with a candle on it.
then what do you suggest big shot?
i suggest you watch your own asses cause barnes going to be down on all of 'em.
then you jes going to forget 'bout elias and all the good times we done had? right in here.
he dugged his own grave.
fuck this shit!
you guys trying to cure the headache by cutting off the head. 'lias did not ask you to fight his battles and if there is a heaven - and god, i hope so - i know he is sitting up there drunk as a fuckin' monkey and smokin' shit cause his pains he done left down here. baaaaaaaaa!
you are wrong man! any way you cut it rhah, barnes is a murderer.
right on.
i remember first time you came in here taylor you telling me how much you admired that bastard.
i was wrong.
wrong? you am not ever been right - 'bout nothing. and dig this you assholes and dig it good! barnes been shot 7 times and he am not dead, that tell you something? barnes am not meant to die. only thing can get barnes... is barnes!
i shit on all o' you.
kill you motherfucker!!!
you wanted to see me sir?
jackson, looks like you got elias' squad now.
squad? i did not know we was still referring to this platoon in terms of squads sir.
these two holes are yours...
begging your pardon lieutenant but my holes are far enuff apart you could run a regiment through there and nobody'd see them - i got five live bodies left...
i do not want to hear your problems, jackson. you will get new men any day. time being you make do like everybody else.
hey lieutenant i did not ask for this job, i...
i do not want to hear about it jackson.
you do not want to hear about it?
that is right. i do not want to hear about it 'cause to tell you the truth, i do not give a shit okay... i just do not give a shit anymore.
right...
this is one time we could sure use elias.
must be somebody?
...there's nobody.
you been smoking too much shit babe. gotta control that. takes a man down... i remember when you first come out to the bush, you was straight as a...
who gives a shit!
'people say I am the life of the party cause i tell a joke or two although i may be laughing loud and hardy deep inside I am blue...'
y'ever get caught in a mistake king and you just can not get out of it?
way out of anything, man. just keep your pecker up, your powder dry, the worm will turn. how many days you short?
not just me... it is the way the whole thing works. people like elias get wasted and people like barnes just go on making up rules any way they want and what do we do, we just sit around in the middle and suck on it! we just do not add up to dry shit.
does a chicken have lips? whoever said we did, babe. make it outta here, it is all gravy, every day of the rest of your life man - gravy. oh shit, superlifer!
hey that is great king, that is great... you take it on home for me, you tell 'em king... got your address right? you know where you can reach men, man. anytime!
i got to didi man. do not wanna miss that chopper. I will send you a postcard. after i get me some. I will send you some tapes too man. this new guy jimi hendrix man, whew... you okay taylor? just 'member take it easy now, do not think too much, do not be a fool, no such thing as a coward cause it do not mean nuthin. jes keep on keepin' on. okay my man...
so what is the problem?
says he can not walk.
shit. get your boots on martin, next time i catch you putting mosquito repellent on your fuckin' feet I am going to courtmartial your nigger ass.
sarge?
yeah that long hairy orange and black bastard i found in the ammo crate. I am going to put it in this asshole's crotch, see if he can walk.
uh... bob. like to speak to you. take a minute.
yeah, what is it?
bob, i got elias' r&r... it is coming up in 3 days. going to hawaii. see patsy.  i never asked you for a break, i was hoping you... you would send me in on the chopper with king... what do you say chief?
i can not do that for you, red... we need every swinging dick in the field. sorry bout that...
hey bob, come on! talk to me hunh, it is your friend red, I am only asking you for three days chief...
I am talking to you red and I am telling you no. get back to your position.
bob, i got to bad feeling about this, i... I am telling you i got a bad feeling, man, i do not think I am going to make it... y'know what i mean?
...everybody gotta die sometime red... get back to your foxhole.
taylor! francis!
over here!
rhah! what is going on. rodriguez's hole just got...
okay, here it is - one, we got gooks in the fuckin' perimeter.
come on man!
no!
come on you can do better than that!
fuck this shit! i am not dyin' in no white man's war! ise didi-ing this motherfuckah!
hey taylor, you okay man?
yeah. how 'bout you?
jes' fine man, jes fine! am not never felt better! both of us two timers man, we are out.  see you at the hospital man, we going to get high-high yessir...
