...yes I am still on hold...
and what was this?
I am looking at your advertisement for the airline promotion and giveaway?
this is "fly with us?"
it is hard to understand because it says in addition to but i can not exactly understand in addition to what because there is actually nothing to add it too...
i think that is a type-o then, that would be a mistake.
so, just to clarify, I am sorry: ten purchases of any of your healthy choice products equals five hundred miles and then with the coupon the same purchases would value one thousand miles --
that is it.
do you realize that the monetary value of this promotion and the prize is potentially worth more than the purchases?
i do not know...i mean: i do not know.
it is extension 215 if you want to try me back.
ok. thank you.
....i'm not exactly sure what that means...
if they break or something. what is it, plastic?
it is a plastic, yeah.
right. alright, lemme call you first thing tomorrow, I am going to run the numbers, see what is what and I will give you a call back --
did you have my home phone number?
for what?
if you wanted to call me back i could...
I am fine, i have your work number.
ok...because of the time difference if you needed to call me early?
it is fine. i can just get you at your office.
ok.
ok, bye, bye.
bye.
hi. do you work at the mechanic?
no.
they are not open yet?
they do not get opened until eight.
is it ok if i leave my car you think?
i do not know.
i thought they opened at seven.  if i left my car would it be ok?
i do not know.
do you know them.
not very well.
can i ask you, can i trust to leave my keys with you and give them to you so that when they get here you could give them to them? barry ok.
you think it is ok where i left it, right there?
i think that will be fine.
there is a piano in the street.
yeah.
ok. maybe I will see you later. thank you for your help.
thank you.
maybe I will see you later, when i pick up my car?
ok.
hey, good morning, barry.
hey...lance....can i.....
you ok?
yes I am fine.
why you wearin' a suit?
um....i bought one. i thought maybe it would be nice to get dressed for work, can i show you something?
yeah.....you got here early huh?
....yes.....
what is this?
i do not know. i think it is a piano....a small piano.
that is not a piano.....i have a piano at home.....where'd you get it?
why is it here? barry....barry?
...it just....i do not know....i do not know.
you do guaranteed sale? etc.
we back our plungers 100% and we do ask for a 30 to 60 day display on the floor.....
yes.....we do ask for....30 to 60 days....
i think you have a call?
this is barry.
hey it is me, what are you doing?
hello, karen. I am just working.
yeah but what are you doing?
I am just working....i have some customers here.....
so you can not talk to me?
i have a few people here, i can not really chat right now.
"chat?" did you just say "chat?"
well, i can not talk though --
you just fucking said "chat," that is so -- what are you now? "chat." I am just calling to make sure you show up at this party tonight.
yes, I will be there.
fine. you get back to chatting with your precious customers.
ok, bye-bye.
sorry about that.
i did not know you had a sister?
.....well yes i do....  but one more thing i wanted to tell you guys about the new plungers is that we are making the handles now in a non-breakable material called.....
how many sisters do you have?
....i have seven.
this is barry.
what are you doing?
hi, kathleen, I am just working.
are you going to the party tonight?
yes i am.
what are you doing?
nothing.
right now, you are doing nothing?
I am just talking on the phone to you and standing.
what time are you gonna be there?
seven o'clock.
you can not be late.
i won't.
I am serious.
i know.
seriously.
ok.
you can not be late though.
i know.
you can not just not show up like you do, you have to go.
i know.
seriously.
i know.
you can not just stay in your house.
i know.
yeah but I am serious.
ok.
I will see you there.
I will see you there.
do not puss out.
i won't.
hey, how are you? barry I am fine, hi, how are you?
I am just stopping by to say hello.
hello.
so you are coming tonight, right?
yes, indeed, yes i am.
there is this girl, this friend of mine from work that i think is really cute and really cool and i want you to meet her so i was thinking about bringing her to the party tonight.
oh yeah no i do not want to do that.
why?
well i do not want to do something like that.
she is my friend and you should meet her. you would like her.
yeah, but please do not do that.
I am not really asking you, I am telling you.
yeah but please do not do that: everyone would be looking at me.
it is a free country, we can look at you if we want to.
yes but i get tense and i feel like i can not be myself if that happens.
that is your fault not mine.
i do not think I am going to the party.
so it is ok if i bring her.
please don't.
she is really cute and she is really nice.
...please, i just do not want it....
....wait a minute: why is this about you now? why is it always about you?
yeah, no, it is not, it is just --
I am trying to be your friend.
i know.
I am trying to get you a girlfriend.
well, yeah, thank you, but --
-- but since you are not going i guess none of this matters and I will bring her anyway.
i do not really remember that.
yes you do. we were calling you gay boy and you got so mad....
yes, yes, right.
hey....i was just telling everyone about how i was going to bring this girl for you but you would not let me do it.
hello everyone.
did you think that we would all be looking at you?
no, no, no.
well it is just not true. we would not be looking at you -- why are you wearing this suit? did you say hello to your brother in law's?
how you doin' barry?
hi walter.
how is business?
business is very food, thanks. elizabeth what is very food?
you just said very food.
did i say that?
yeah.
that was weird. i meant good.
maybe you said that because you are hungry.....
you are lucky. she could not come anyway --
well I am glad you didn't, thank you.
she could not come i said. are you nervous?
no.
you look nervous.
I am not, I am very happy.
what is up?
well I am sorry. before...
mhm.
and I am sorry that i did that.
it is alright.
i wanted to ask you because you are a doctor, right?
yeah.
i do not like the way i am sometimes.  can you help me? walter barry, I am a dentist, what kind of help do you think i can give you?
i know that. maybe you know other doctors?
like a psychiatrist?
i do not have anyone to talk to things about and i understand it is confidential with a doctor - I am embarrassed about that and i do not want my sisters to know?
you want a number for a psychiatrist, i can get you one, that is not a problem. but what exactly is wrong?
i do not know if there is anything wrong with me because i do not know how other people are.....sometimes i cry a lot.....for no reason.
hi, this is janice the operator, who is this?
hello, how are you?
hi, is this your first time calling?
yes it is.
can i have your credit card number, followed by the expiration date?
can i ask how much is this?
-- it is $2.99 per minute for the first half hour and $1.99 per minute after that.
......and this is confidential?
what do you mean?
it's....confidential, the call, my information is private.
of course. would you like to talk to a girl? i can connect you with a beautiful girl if i can just get your credit card number followed by the expiration date?
...3407 2627 3444 8095 expiration 05/04.
and your billing address and the name as it appears on the card?
.....1274 moorpark. sherman oaks, california. #4. 91403.
and your name?
barry egan.
and your social security number.
what is that for?
it is just for verification through the credit card company.
-- and this is confidential?
of course, it is just for us to verify your credit card information. it is completely confidential and it appears on your credit card billing statement as d&d mattress man.
337.....i'm sorry....
it is ok, take your time.
337-09-9876. but i do not want anyone to know my name.
no one will know your name.
can you say that my name is jack?
you want her to call you jack?
i just do not want anyone to know it is me.
that is fine. can i have a telephone number, area code first on where we can call you back?
no i just....i do not want to, i just want to be connected to talk to a girl.
it is a call back service -- a girl will call you back.
i thought i was just going to be connected to talk to a girl - that is fine, ok, I am sorry, it's, um.....818....
hello, this is back.
hi, is this jack?
yes.
this is georgia.
hi. this is jack.
so what are you doing tonight, jack?
nothing.
nothing, huh, do you know what I am doing?
no.
I am just laying on my bed.
where are you?
I am in my bedroom.
no, i mean, what city, what state are you in?
are you watching a porno movie?
no.
do you like porno movies?
sure.
yeah....? so...jack...are you stroking that big fat fucking cock of yours?
....no....
yeah? so what are you doing, then?
...just talking to you....
are your pants off?
no.
I am wearing a t-shirt and panties.
really?
yeah. and looking at myself in the mirror. do you wanna know what i look like?
it does not matter.
what do you mean it does not matter?
well. i have no way of knowing. so it does not matter.
i do not lie, jack. I am about 5'8, blonde 34,28,34. pretty thin, i work out. my pussy's shaved. my friends say I am pretty cute, so....
really?
what do you mean, "really?" yeah. really. what about you?
it does not matter.
yeah....you're married are not you, jack?
no.
you have a girlfriend?
...yes...
where is she?
she's...not here...she went out. she went out of town, she travels a lot.
I am horny, jack, what about you?
...yeah.....
does jack like to jack off?
sometimes when I am lonely.
...yeah....well you have me now.
you sound very cute, very nice.
thank you. what do you do, barry?
i have my own business....i work. i work hard at doing my business.
yeah....do you do well, do you make alotta money?
i do pretty good, i think. i wish i was making more, doing a little bit better. i can,t get over a certain hump. i will...i will crack something soon i think and really do better...i'd like to diversify...but I am doing great, i think, as a start.
so.....are you stroking it, yet, honey?
no.
well why do not you take your pants off and stroke it for me?
ok. sexy voice yeah...that's it...god i am so horny...i wish i was there to help you.....i wish i was there for you, barry.
hello?
hey. what are you doing? how are you?
I am fine. who is this?
georgia.
hi....what....what's up....?
it is ok that I am calling, right, i mean? it is ok.
yeah. no. it is ok. what is goin' on?
i just wanted to call and talk to you, thank you for last night, try and get you before you went to work and say, "hey."
I am going to work.
uhhh...i am sooo tired...i stayed up too late last night, what about you, when did you go to sleep?
not very late.
you are going to work now?
yes.
can i ask you a question?
uh-huh.
remember last night i was talking to you and i was telling you about my apartment, my rent -- ?  do you remember?
yes.
this is really weird and really embarrassing for me but....uh....  i was wondering if you could help me out with a little bit of money.
me?
yeah.
i can not really. yeah, no. i mean. i can not afford it.
you do not even know how much it is.
i know but i....how much is it?
like seven-fifty. seven hundred fifty?
yes, no, yes. i can't. i can not afford that. I am sorry. sorry.
really? please?
you have trouble, financial trouble?
yeah. it is so hard these days and i really need it.
yes i can't....i do not make enough money to be able to do that.
i thought you had your own business. you said you were gonna diversify and all that stuff....
so you think you can?
no. I am sorry.
should i call back and talk to your girlfriend?
....what....?
i was wondering if it is better to ask your girlfriend for the money? it could be really easy. i mean, i have all your information, credit card information and billing stuff --
good morning, barry....
hi, lance.
what is with all this pudding, what is this?
that is part of a very interesting airline promotion giveaway that is really tremendous. I am going to start a collection of pudding and coupons that can be redeemed for frequent flyer miles through healthy choice and american airlines --
you are goin' on a trip?
no.........but airline miles are just like a currency these days.
you should go on a trip.
no thanks.
so what should i do with the pudding?
let's just leave it there for now.
he is wearing a suit again, i do not know why he is wearing a suit, he does not usually dress like that --
it is fine.
hey, what are you doing? why are you wearing a suit again?
i do not know.
hi.
hi.
do you remember me, i left my car, yesterday.
yes i do.
this is lena, she is a good friend of mine from work. we were in the neighborhood and she had to pick up her car and we are getting breakfast before we go in, so did you want to go? we are going to go and eat, let's go.
yeah i can't.
why?
i have work, i can not leave.
seriously, though: we are going to eat, i said.
I am sorry.
it is ok. that is alright.
are you learning how to play the piano? what is that?
it is not a piano. lance! lance! make sure that you call that guy in toledo.
which?
...i'll tell you later.
hello?
we got disconnected before....
no. no. we got disconnect -- why?.....you're calling me at work....how did you get this number -- ?
see the thing is i could make it really easy on you -- i already have your credit card number, your information, address and stuff. this is so awkward asking like this, I am sorry --
this makes me very uncomfortable.
i need help.
should i just ask your girlfriend?  maybe i should call back and talk to your girlfriend?
i do not have a girlfriend --
-- you said you did.
i know i did. but i don't.
you lied to me?
i did not lie.
why did you tell me you did, then?
this is....illegal....i'll call the police.
no you won't.
I will go pay for my car.
are you sure?
yeah.
he is being weird, I am sorry. i have no idea why he is being weird and dressed in a suit --
it is not bad, it is ok.
-- he is so strange i do not know if you really even would want to go out with him, someone like him, i said I would try, but it is just --
it is ok, it is alright. I will come right back, I will just go pay for my car.
sorry.
come on, i thought we had fun, rich boy --
this is not cool.
it was cool last night.
i have to go.
are you telling me no?
no I am sorry, now i have to get off the phone....
....this is your mistake....
hey, hey, you should ask her out -- what do you think, she is cute, right?
I am going to call you back.
...motherfucker, no....
she is. i think, why did you come here like this?
it is not cool?
it is fine, but --
-- do you think you will ask her out?
i feel really on the spot now.
are you gonna do it?
i do not do that. i do not - things like that.
you do not do anything, why are you being scared?
I am not being scared, you are just going to rag me if i do this --
I am not going to rag you. why would i do this just to rag you?
i do not know.
I will leave then, I will go to get something from my car, go away so you do not feel pressure. can i ask you a serious question:
what?
did you ask walter to get you a shrink?  barry, did you ask walter to get you a shrink? what is wrong with you? are you ok?
i did not ask him that. he is lying.
you are being weird again, see. come on. please do not be weird.
we should be going --
yeah, no, i have to get something from my car, i said.
which guy in toledo are you talking about?
I will tell you...the guy...with...just talk to me later about it, ok?
you talkin' to me about ramada inn?
i have to talk to you in a second about that, lance, ok?
I am sorry i could not come to your sister's birthday party last night, elizabeth had invited me and i could not make it --
it is fine. it was fun, though.
it must be weird for you to have so many sisters?
no. not at all. it is nice.
business is good, you are busy?
yeah, not really.
i saw a picture of you.
yes. lena elizabeth has a picture of you guys -- your sisters and you, it is a lot of family, it must be nice.
do you have brothers or sisters?
no. I am the exact opposite --
that must be nice. that must be really, really, really great.
it is terrible, no.
what do you do with all this pudding?
that is not mine it is one of the guys that works here. that pudding's not mine.
oh my god.
it is ok. that is ok. how long have you worked with elizabeth?
six months, maybe five, five or six months...do you wanna check that?
are you guys hurt?
that is great -- hawaii. i was thinking about going there.
really?
i was, yeah, i was thinking about going there for business --
-- well, if you are going to go --
-- I am probably not going to go though.
-- oh that is too bad, it is so great over there and if you were there we could say hello to each other or something --
-- yeah that would be great, if i was going to go but I am not exactly sure, i have so much goin on here -- a lot depends on this thing i might do here and if that happens i can not go and if it does not happen then i probably will, but i doubt it.
i can not find that thing in my car, i can not find it so I will just get it and give it to you later. so?
you ready?
are you coming to eat with us?
yeah i can't.
oh my god. look at that.
it was great to meet you again. to see you again, thanks for helping me yesterday --
ok.
what is all this pudding?
it is not mine.
why is it here?
i have no idea.
are you ready?
will you call me later to talk about asking walter for the shrink? and we can talk about - he said you have this crying problem or something?
bye, barry.
goodbye.
call me later.
so I will meet you at the restaraunt?
ok.
I am going to go and eat tomorrow night do you want to go with me?
sure.
do you want to pick me up?
sure.
can i write down my address and phone number for you?
sure.
this is funny.
yeah.
i did not ask anyone for a shrink, that was someone else. also: this pudding is not mine. also: I am wearing a suit because i had a very important business meeting this morning and i do not have a crying problem.
ok.
alright?
....hi.....
....hi.....
hello?
you have just made a war that you cannot afford.
so they will go.
I am only paying two of you guys.
that is cool.
when can you leave?
as soon as you want.
i want you to go right away, i think that is best. i also need you to check out a car for me down there that this guy is selling.
your expenses are your own.
i thought latisha said you would --
-- she did not know what she was talking about --
it's....whatever....that's not cool.
david, don't. just. seriously. it does not make sense if you think about it in a fair deal like sense. ok? it is business. seriously. one hundred dollars for two days work is a lot more than your family is making sitting around your house. I am serious now. ok. please. now. just stop.
...keys for the track. you have to gas it up and save the receipts on that. his address. we have a business address too if you need that -- but hit him at his house first, see what this little bad boy is all about and shake him up -- give him a little doe-see-doe --
uch. shut up, dean.
what is the problem?
you do not need to talk all macho, "shake him out, little bad boy." whatever -- you are not an action hero, tough guy, you are not a gangster --
this is this place called ace vintage, you got to find it, i do not know exactly where this is and i do not understand these maps so just go there and check it out. it is a '61 ac cobra that this old guy says is fine, but i need to figure out why he is only asking 23 for it. so take a look, the whole thing, call me about that, if it seems alright then I will head down there and check it out.
ok.
that is it.
can we maybe ask for more money on this?
who is it?
it is barry.
...really? that is nice...are you lying?
...i thought i should tell you. i did not want to get too far along on going out and be hiding something --
that is very nice. thank you. thank you for saying that.  you are friends with my sister?
yeah.
how long have you known her?
about six months.
you like her?
yeah. yeah we get along well.  you did not get along with her very well?
did you really come to meet me on purpose or are you lying about that?
no, no. i did.
that is nice. it is nice.  I have been looking around a lot lately at promotional giveaways, cross promotional work by some companies. do you remember all that pudding?
yeah.
so that pudding was bought, i bought that pudding because of a pretty interesting promotion that is sponsored by healthy choice and american airlines. it is designed to encourage airline travel and obviously designed to encourage buying healthy choice products. they make frozen meals, deli meats, pasta sauce, breads, soups and ice creams, this sort of thing.....
yeah?
....i'm sorry....i lost my thoughts, what i was saying....
you were talking about the promotion --
-- the promotion says: buy any 10 healthy choice products and get 500 miles of airline travel or 1,000 for purchases made with a special coupon. so in the supermarket, you notice their products, first you notice they have a teriyaki chicken dinner at $1.79 - that is a pretty good deal....but then i noticed they had soup at 89 cents a can.....and you start to do the math and you start to notice that it is a really amazing deal because i stumbled across the pudding at 25 cents a cup. now the crucial thing is the bar codes on the label. that is those little bar codes, you know? the universal product codes?
yeah.
that is what is used to redeem the mileage, so in noticing the pudding, each cup had an individual bar code -- in other words: two dollars and fifty cents for ten cups of pudding is 500 miles. add in the coupon: it is one thousand. you see?
yeah.
you see?
yeah, no, i see --
you see if you spent $3,000 dollars on pudding you could earn over one million frequent flyer miles.
that is insane. that is really, really crazy. that is just crazy if you spend three thousand dollars on pudding.
....yeah....
so that was your pudding?
....no....
I am sorry. i thought you said --
no i did not say that.
i thought you said you bought all that pudding --
my friend carlos is doing it who works with me. it is his. it is his pudding, he is doing it. it is not mine. he is crazy. i told him not to do it. he is the one who is insane. he only spent about one hundred dollars so far though --
your sister was telling me a pretty funny story about you, when you guys were kids and you were building a ramp for your dog and you threw a hammer through a window? is that right? you threw a hammer through a sliding glass door?
why?
just have you for one second, please.
yeah.
did you do it?
no.
you did not just smash up the bathroom?
no.
well who did?
i do not know.
you are hand is bleeding.
i cut myself.
how?
on my knife.
sir, a young man saw you coming out of the bathroom.
i did not do that.
why? ...what?
your hand is bleeding.
i know.
I am going to have to ask you to leave.
why?
sir, i have no way of proving that you demolished the bathroom --
i did not do it.
alright, well you are going to have to leave. you are going to have to go.
yeah, but i did not do anything.
I am going to call the police then, sir.
please do not do this to me.
the police are on their way.
sorry.
can i pay you here? can i pay you for our drinks and salad?
that is fine.
is everything ok?
yes.
what happened?
nothing.
what did he want?
nothing.
i have a better idea of where we can go.
ok.
there is a better place for us to eat.
did something happen; are you alright?
yes I am fine. everything is ok. it is fine. everything is fine.
your portable reed organ....the piano.
well, it is fine. thank you.
did you pick it up from the street?
what?
did you take it from the street in front of your work?
...yes i did...?
are you learning how to play it?
yes? I am trying.
oh that is great.
so you must travel a lot with all that pudding you bought?
yes no not really.
ok....well...i'm going to go.
...yeah...
it was nice to see you again, to see your face again, to go out with you --
I will be around and back in town in a few days --
yeah.
if you come to hawaii --
yeah, i do not know, we will see about that.
you do not think you will go --
i do not know.
ok. well call me when you get back, i mean, I will call you when i get back. I will be back for three weeks and then i go away for a month after that. so maybe in that time....
ok. have a good trip.
this is barry.
this is lena.
hi.
i just wanted you to know, wherever you are going or whatever you are doing right now i want you to know that i wanted to kiss you just then.
really?
yeah.
so what do i do then?
that was good.
yeah.
I will see you later.
ok.
i do not freak out very often.
what do you mean?
i don't, no matter what my sisters say, ok?
...i do not know what you mean....
i do not freak out.
ok.
have a good trip.
thank you.
hey.
hi.
i need to talk to you for a second.
what?
you gotta give me some money.
you made a phone call and you said you would help a girl out and then you didn't....i'm here to get the money.
wait a minute --
no, no, no, no c'mon man, do not make it a thing --
please do not do this.
it is just you need to give me the money...do you have it right now?
whoa...whoa...wait, wait -- do not please....
how much money do you have in your pockets?
just take it, take the money in my pockets, take it, it is fine --
it is three hundred and twenty dollars, just take it.
what do you have in the house?
nothing....i mean, really...change, nothing....that's the cash i have....
you have an atm?
yes.
is this where you live?
yes.
you have another house somewhere or something?
no.
hey. you made a fucking sex call and now you are going to pay. it is not a big thing -- just give us some money and then it is over -- we will just walk down to the atm and get your money out --
alright, alright.
ok. this is what you get when you are a pervert -- you said you would help someone out and you did not so we are just getting some money for her and that is that.
you know, please, i just wanna say that i did not say i would help her out; i was very clear about it....i do not think that this is fair.....wait, wait, wait, ouch, ouch.....
what is up?
i think i got in trouble. a little bit of trouble....
what happened?
....i made a call.....  ....and, uh....
ok. well. I am going to go out of town. I am going to go out of town just for two days...
where you goin?
I am going to go to hawaii but you can not tell my sisters that.
wow, you are goin' to hawaii, that is great -- you are goin -- ?
yeah but you can not tell my sisters that.
ok.
alright: and i have to go and buy some more pudding for this trip to hawaii and as i just said that out loud I am realizing it sounds a little strange but it is not. so can you come and help me out?
ok.
they need to be scanned individually. they each have a bar code, so i need it scanned individually so that each and every cup appears on the receipt...
what is this, man?
I am sorry.
are you serious with this?
yes. sorry.
well....what do you want, then?
each pudding cup has to be scanned individually so that...it's for a giveaway...a product giveaway by this company...
this is a bunch of bullshit.
I am sorry, i know. i know that it's....
you know you can get places in the world with pudding. that is funny.
yeah.
that is funny.
no, no, no, no, no. what do you mean? it does not state anywhere about six to eight weeks.
it takes that much time to process the order and make sure it is valid --
i had this whole thing in my head, i was gonna be able to get this to you today -- i have to leave today --
I am sorry.
how am i supposed to know what to do if you do not say it -- if it is not in your rules and regulations in your fine print how am i supposed to know how to be with this --
it takes time to process --
no, no, no, no, no, no, no!
....now: this pudding?
yeah.
let's just figure that out later --  ok. i got to go. I am just going to go now and I will call you from there, you are in charge 'till i get back. and do not tell my sisters anything? he exits.
hey. what are you doing?
nothing. I am just at work and I am wondering, you know your friend lena?
what about her? you did not ask her out, you are such a pussy --
....she didn't, i did not ask her out?
you are so scared.
do you know where she is staying in hawaii?
oh my god, yeah, i know exactly where she is, why?
......she forgot her purse at my work and i wanted to get it back to her.
no she didn't; that is a lie.
i....please do not do this.
what? tell me why you wanna know --
i just want to know where she is staying.
tell me why.
there is no reason for you to treat me like you do -- you are killing me, you are killing me with the way that you are towards me --
-- what are you talking about, come on --
-- all i want is the number of where she is staying and that should be god damn good enough, now stop treating me this way, please -- just give me the number elizabeth please now i think i will kill you if you don't.
hello?
lena?
yeah?
it is barry.
hi. where are you? are you here?
yes.
oh wow. yeah. that is great. you came, you came. what are you doing?
I am calling you, I am standing in my hotel room, i came because i have my business trip --
well let's do something do you want to do something, can you meet me?
you do not have a boyfriend or anything do you?
no. what do you mean? barry i just wanted to know. when was the last time you had a boyfriend?
about six months ago. why?
i just wanted to make sure.
when was the last time you had a girlfriend?
where you married?
yeah.
ok. so you were married for how long?
do you want to meet me and talk about this stuff?
ok. where are you from originally?
you got me out of my hotel room. you came and got me out of my room.
yeah......yeah.....
it is so nice.
this really looks like hawaii here.
do you wanna have sex?
yeah.
oh my god, you are so adorable. i just....god dammit.
what is that? what is that that you are doing?
i just...your face is so adorable and your cheek and your skin, i wanna bite it....i wanna bite your cheek and chew on it....god damn cute....fuck....
i know what you mean, i know what you mean, i get this feeling --
...what...?
iiiiiiiiiii do not want to hurt anything ever, but what I am talking about is -- have you ever held a little puppy or a little kitten and it is just the cutest, softest, most precious thing in the world and out of the blue you get this feeling in your gut and all you wanna do is squeeze it. just fuckin squeeze the shit out of it. to take a little puppy and smash its skull...just so precious, so beautiful. just so god damn wonderful and cute you wanna smack it and kick it and love it. fuck. i do not know. i do not know. and you, you.....i'm looking at you and i just....your face is so beautiful i just wanna smash it, just smash it with a sledgehammer and squeeze it...you're so pretty.
i know. i know. i know. i just wanna chew your face and scoop out your beautiful, beautiful eyes with an ice cream scooper and eat 'em and chew 'em and suck on 'em. fuck.
this is funny.
yeah.
this is nice.
they need to see the new 484's to make sure it works with their oc....
ok. what should i do about eric?
just tell him to call me.
ok.
so...did my brother call you?
no.
i have no idea what he is doing then. I am sorry that did not work out.
it is fine.
you would not want to go out with him anyway, honestly, he is such a freak sometimes.
he did seem a little strange.
well...he's not that strange, do not say that.
I am sorry. you are right.
i think he is weird, but that is me.
should i call you later?
I will just see you when you get back here.
ok.
where do you have to go?
for what?
for work.....
i do not have any business here. i came here for you, i did not have any business.
how many times have you been on an airplane?
i think maybe over a hundred.
that is right you travel so much.
yeah.
i forgot about that.
can i come home with you when we get there?
yeah.
it is ok to ask that.
i thought that you were anyway.
are you ok?
I am fine are you ok?
yes I am sorry.
what is this?
let's go to the hospital.
this is janice the operator, who is this?
my name is barry egan and i spoke to you....you called me, you remember?
...no....i don't....i do not remember you. who is this?
that is not true. that is not true at all. you said that your name was georgia and you said our conversation was confidential and i trusted you and you kept calling and asking me for money, c'mon now i want to talk to your owner, your supervisor, whoever runs this, you understand. please connect me now.
can you hang on a second?
hello?
hey, it is me. this guy from l.a., barry egan is calling on the other line and saying all this stuff, he wants to talk to a supervisor or whatever --
what did you say?
nothing.
put him through.
no, no. this is bad, something might have happened, we should just --
shut up, just put him on the phone, it does not matter, just shut up --
ok, sir....i'm going to put you through to my supervisor.
fine, thank you.
ok. you are connected.
who is this?
hello, my name is barry egan and i called your service --
why do not you shut the fuck up?
what?
i said calm down and shut the fuck up. what is your problem?
i have not even told you what is happened. your girl that you have that works there for you threatened me and two men just chased me -- extorted money -- dean go fuck yourself that shit does not have anything to do with me - this is a legitimate bossiness.
you go fuck yourself. you go fuck yourself. you go fuck yourself. my love was hurt, she got hurt. i am in love with her and you hurt you and you are going to fucking get hurt. you do not touch her, i love her.
calm down shut the fuck up and calm down shut shut shut up shut up --
now are you threatening me, dick?
you are bad. you are a bad person. you are a bad person and you have no right to take people's confidence in your service --
you better watch your mouth, cunt, you are going to get hurt.
no. no. do not you say that.
I will say whatever i want --
you fuck off. you fuck off and die i will hurt you for hurting her. you hurt her.
you just told me to fuck off. that was not good. you are dead.
what city?
somewhere in utah.
what is the listing?
d&d mattress man.
I am a nice and reasonable man. i did not do anything wrong. please do not make me hurt you. and I am telling you: that if you ever hurt me or if you hurt someone that i love.....i will hurt you many, many, many times over.....because it is not right to take people's trust.
you came all the way from los angeles to tell me that?
yes i did.
can we agree that that is that?
that is that.
thank you.
where you been?
well i had to go to utah...but now I am here and I will be right back.
lena I am so sorry. I am so sorry that i left you at the hospital..... i called a phone sex line. i called a phone sex line before i met you and then these four blond brothers came after me and you got hurt and I am sorry -- and i had to leave because i do not want you to get hurt again and now I am here and I am back and i have a lot of pudding that i can redeem in six to eight weeks and if you give me that much time i can get enough miles to fly with you wherever you have to go if you have to travel for your job because i do not want to be anywhere without you.....can you please let me redeem the mileage?
you left me at the hospital.
I am sorry.
you can not do that.
ok.
if you give me six to eight weeks i can redeem the mileage and then i can with you wherever you have to travel......
so here we go.
