here it is; the last chapter.
monsieur masse says he would like another manuscript, quick as you please. he is got himself three presses, and he can not print 'em fast enough.
I will pass the word on, then.
I will pay you another visit, with a share of the profits, once its sold.
I will be waiting.
maybe someday you will tell me your name.
"as he loosened his manhood from beneath his robes, the bishop muttered a latin prayer. and then -- with a mighty thrust -- drove it into her very entrails --"
enough!
as for the author... shoot him.
a word of caution, sire: we all remember what happened to robespierre, danton and marat. put the marquis to death, and history might even regard you as a despot.
but i am history.
of course, your highness. nevertheless... cure the marquis de sade... succeed, where countless physicians and priests have failed...
yes?
no one can fault napoleon for merely bringing a man to his senses.
but here at the hotel dieu we favor an... aggressive... course of treatment.
quite.
i do not seek popularity or renown, monsieur delben. mine is a higher mission.
charenton? the administrator there is quite well-loved, is he not?
I am afraid so; he is an idealist. you will have to be politic.
do you know how i define "idealism," monsieur delben?
then how can we know who is truly good, and who is evil?
we can't. all we can do is guard against our own corruption.
"and so the professor lifted colombe's skirt high, above her waist. 'let me be your tutor,' said he, 'in the ways of love.' with that, he slid her pantalettes down, down, down over her knees, and there -- nestled between her legs -- as pink as a tulip, as slick as an eel --"
we ought not be reading his nasty stories --
no one's forcing you to listen.
you have been to his quarters, have not you?
once or twice.
i hear he is got a whetstone and chisel, and he uses them to sharpen his teeth.
he is a writer, not a madman.
then what is he doing here?
if you are going to slander him, then you do not deserve to hear his stories --
i think she is sweet on him, that is what i think.
I am hungry for a proper visit.
do not start --
go ahead; you have a key. slip it through my tiny hole...
did i frighten you?
you? frighten me? that is a good one! I am twice as fast as you are. who would have thought such a spent body can still boast such a fertile mind?
it is the only frontier i have left, plumcake.
i suppose you want to know about that silly book of yours.
the peril of composing such incendiary prose...
i put myself at life and limb. surely that is worth a few louis.
if only these coins purchased your other talents, too.
there is something else i want from you.
you have already stolen my heart, as well as another more prominent organ, south of the equator...
your publisher says I am not to leave without a new manuscript.
I have just the story... inspired by these very surroundings....
the unhappy tale of a virginal laundry lass, the darling of the lower wards, where they entomb the criminally insane.
is it awfully violent?
most assuredly.
is it terribly erotic?
fiendishly so.
a kiss for each page.
must i administer them directly, or might i blow them?
the price, my coquette, is every bit as firm as i am...
oh, you. you talk same as you write.
it is a long story, this one.
the climax comes at a higher cost; you must sit on my lap.
you demand a lot from your readers, you do.
the story's thrilling conclusion comes at a premium.
what is that then?
madeleine --
yes, abbe?
the next time you feel the urge to visit the marquis, i hope you will come to confession instead.
care for a splash of wine, abbe?
it is not even noon --
conversation, like certain portions of the anatomy, always runs more smoothly when it is lubricated.
i should have told you it was the blood of christ; you would believe that, would not you?
we treat you well enough here, do not we marquis? your very own featherbed, in lieu of a straw mat. your antique writing desk, all the way from lacoste. enough quills to feather an ostrich --
it is true, dear-heart, you have spoiled me pink.
in exchange, we ask only that you follow the rules. now you know as well as i do... you are not to entertain visitors in your quarters.
I am entertaining you now, are not i?
I am not a beautiful young prospect, ripe for corruption.
do not be so sure.
take your pen in hand, marquis. purge these wicked thoughts of yours on paper; maybe they will govern you less in life.
I will fill page after page, i promise.
they have got no right, sending someone to sit on your shoulder. i work for you; i will not take orders from a stranger.
you need not worry, valcour. it is administrative, nothing more.
dr. royer-collard? may i be the first to welcome you to charenton --
this may feel a tad awkward, my friend, but it need not be. I have merely come to oversee your work here; understood?
of course.
it is a formality; truly.
you are a man of science; I am a man of god. charenton stands to profit from us both, I am certain.
I will need an office on the grounds; someplace to store my things.
if you do not mind my asking... why has the emperor taken such sudden interest in my... our... affairs?
it seems a particular patient of yours has captured his fancy.
i understand he practices the very crimes he preaches in his fiction.
a few indiscretions in his youth.
indiscretions, abbe? please. I have read his case history. at sixteen, he violated a serving girl with a crucifix. after six months in the dungeon at vincennes, he mutilated a prostitute, cutting her flesh with a razor, then cauterizing the wounds with wax --
i hope you will judge him by his progress here, and not his past reputation.
he is made a great success of our little theater; there is seldom an empty seat. not to mention its therapeutic value.
playing dress-up with cretins? that sounds like a symptom of madness; not its cure.
why is he in your care, and not a proper prison?
his wife's influence.
his wife's?
better to have an insane spouse than a criminal one.
and he is never once attempted escape?
a man of his notoriety? he would not last a day on the streets without capture.
besides, every wholesome thing he might desire, he has at charenton. a library, filled with the world's great books, music lessons, watercolor exercises --
what is the impact of all these amenities upon his psyche?
he no longer roars or spits. he no longer taunts the guards or molests his fellow wards --
and his writing?
oh. that.
well...?
it is essential to his recovery; a purgative for the toxins in his mind.
do you favor its publication?
for sale? to the general public? certainly not; it is unprintable.
you have to believe me, i had no idea --
all france is aghast at this book, yet you have not heard of it?
I have taken vows to live my life within these walls; not outside them.
abbe, i admire you; i do. you have a conviction... an idealism... peculiar to the very young. and so I will be candid. the ministry has sent me here with the most explicit... the most severe instructions.
yes?
unless we set charenton on a straight and narrow course, she will be shut down forever by order of the emperor.
shut down?
in their eyes, the marquis is the surest barometer of your progress here.
but he is one among some two hundred wards --
have you tried bleeding him with leeches? the calming chair? maybe you should flog him at the stake?
why? so he will learn to fear punishment, rather than pursue virtue for its own reward?
you are a sentimental man.
a practical man, sir. given the marquis' unusual tastes, a sound thrashing on bare flesh may not qualify as a deterrent.
you find this amusing, do you?
on the contrary. let me take up this matter with the marquis myself --
and place my reputation at stake?
charenton is my life's work. to have her wrested from beneath me now --
yes! it is! the paper's cheap, the type's too small --
what did you do? bribe one of the guards?
but you implored me to write! for curative purposes, to stave off my madness --
but you have no right to publish! behind my back, without my sanction!
have you truly read the book in question? or did you run -- straightaway -- to the dog-eared pages?
enough to discern its tenor.
and --?
it is not even a proper novel! it is nothing but an encyclopedia of perversions! frankly, it even fails as an exercise in craft. the characters are wooden; the dialogue is inane. not to mention the endless repetition of words like "nipple" and "pikestaff" --
there i was taxed; it is true.
and such puny scope! nothing but the very worst in man's nature!
i write of the great, eternal truths that bind together all mankind! the whole world over, we eat, we shit, we fuck, we kill and we die.
but we also fall in love; we build cities, we compose symphonies, and we endure. why not put that in your books as well?
it is a fiction, not a moral treatise.
but is not that the duty of art? to elevate us above the beast?
i thought that was your duty, abbe, not mine.
one more trick like this, and I will be forced to revoke all your liberties!
it is that doctor fellow, is not it? he is come to usurp your place here, has not he?
more than your writing's at stake. the ministry has threatened us with closure.
they can not be serious.
our future lies in the stroke of your pen.
mightier than the sword indeed.
put yourself in my place. I have your fellow patients to consider. if charenton falls, they have no place to go. no manner in which to clothe or feed themselves --
fuck 'em! they are half-wits and pinheads. let 'em die on the streets, as nature intended.
you among them?
you have a touch of the poet, too; perhaps you should take up the quill.
do i have your word?
if you only mean to dupe me again --
honestly! you cut me to the core! what is the point of all your valiant attempts at rehabilitation if -- when i finally succumb -- when at long last, i pledge myself to righteous conduct -- you regard me with nothing but suspicion? have you no faith in your own medicine?
well?
i spoke to him with reason and compassion; the tools which serve us best here.
and --?
he is sworn to obedience.
he is more than a patient, doctor; the marquis is my friend --
you keep strange company, abbe. but if you truly have matters in hand here --
i have.
-- then I have friends of my own to visit.
his wife was trying to escape; they caught her on the stair, and set upon her with bayonets.  "there but for the grace of god"... eh, doctor?
i do not shed tears over the past, monsieur delben; i look to the future.
madame bougival; mademoiselle clairwil -- and of course -- the marquis' wife --
oh indeed?
at last she arrives, my hard-won bride! hurry, my child, and scurry inside. there you will find such treasures await you; marzipan and meringue to sate you!
such gallantry in men is -- sadly -- a rarity; how lucky i am to receive his charity!
leave at once --
but it is just begun --
do as i say.
quickly, my suckling, out of your clothes! my scepter awaits; how solid it grows!
stop, i beg you! have pity, i say! you are not my lover; you are a monstrous rou!
my darling, eugenie, dainty morsel! get on your back! let's try it dorsal!
was ever a man more risqu? he wants to take me every way!
I will plunder every lovely pore until you are week and cry "no more!"
i tremble with fear! you are bound to pound the quivering lips of my venus mound!
and then -- to prove your truly mine -- I will plunder you, darling, from behind!
what of my lips, will you soil them too? when you have broken every other taboo?
I will fill every slippery hollow; if you are obliging, then you will swallow!
has he hurt you?
his stinking breath caused my eyes to run, that is all.
you mean to take us all down with you?
do not be absurd; it is only a play.
it was fiction, of course.
of course.
it was not inspired by circumstance.
no. it most certainly was not.
you ought to be ashamed, abbe. exploiting those drooling, pathetic cretins for financial gain --
that is not our intent --
-- a veritable freak show for tourists and curiosity seekers. charenton is a sanatorium; she is not a circus. the theater is henceforth closed. as for your avowed friend -- playwright emeritus of the madhouse --
I will do everything in my power --
do more. otherwise, I will be forced to report to the ministry that the inmates are indeed running the asylum.
he can not do that to me.
how can one man possibly be so selfish?
we held a mirror up to the doctor, and -- apparently -- he did not like what he saw.
what the devil --
if you will not be true to your word, then you have left me no choice.
perhaps -- in time -- you will earn them back through good behavior --
you can not --! you must not --! I have all the demons of hell in my head; my only salvation is to vent them on paper --
try reading, for a change. the writer who produces more than he reads? the sure mark of an amateur.
start with the bible; it is cheerier, and more artfully written.
that monstrous god of yours? he strung up his very own son like a side of veal; i shudder to think what he would do to me.
you know what sacrilege is, do not you? the last refuge of the failed provocateur.
I will die of loneliness! I have no company but the characters i create --
whores and pederasts? you are better off without them.
i have a proposition.
you always do.
madeleine. she is besotted with me; she would do anything i ask. she could pay you a midnight visit --
i do not know who you insult more; her or me.
"part the gates of heaven," as it were --
that is enough.
you are tense, darling. you could use a long, slow screw.
good day, marquis.
then bugger me!
hm? tell me. what other treats?
....shame on you, truly...
for fuck's sake, woman! bonbons? I am to sit here, gorging myself on useless trifles, sucking down your little sweetmeats, when what i truly need -- what i truly require -- are a few quill pens? perhaps a pot of ink?
forgive me, i beg you --
how was i to know, my darling?
how was i to tell you? by writing a letter? with what, my asinine bride?
i beg you, donatien... as your wife... your only ally... you must stop making such a monstrous spectacle of yourself.
you have come to lecture me?
to flaunt your deviance in public? upon a stage?
they have put you up to this, have not they?
you ought to court the doctor's favor, not his contempt.
everywhere i go, they point and whisper! at the opera, they hiss at me when i take my box. when i went to church... the priest refused to even hear my confession; he said i was already damned! why must i suffer for your sins?
it is the way of all martyrs, is not it?
give me back my anonymity, that is all i ask! let me be invisible again!
tell me; have you done anything to secure my release? no! have you petitioned the court? never! sought audience with the emperor --
he refuses to be seen in my company! he blanches at the mention of your name --
it is a convenience, is not it, having your husband locked away! you no longer have to hold your tongue, or hoist your skirts! or crack your mouth, so i can put it to its one pleasurable use! you are not my wife, no! you are one among my many jailers, are not you?
it is customary to write first, and request an appointment --
desperation has driven me past etiquette, all the way to frenzy.
my schedule is not subject to the whims of lunatics.
i beg to differ, doctor. you work in a madhouse. your every waking moment is governed by the insane.
i pray you: be succinct.
you are new to charenton, yes? perhaps you are not yet familiar with my husband, and his unusual case.
with all due respect, madame, all france is familiar with your husband.  grant us a moment alone, will not you, monsieur prouix?
i assume you have come to plead for clemency on your husband's behalf.
oh you do, do you? it is my dearest hope, doctor, that he remain entombed forever, and that when at last he perishes in the dank bowels of your institution, he be left as carrion for the rodents and the worms.
you are aware, are you not, that it costs a great deal to house your husband at charenton...
i pay his stipend every month, far more dutifully than i should.
that barely covers the cost of his room. there is nary a penny left over for appropriate treatments. opiates to quell his temper. restraints to chasten him when he misbehaves.
perhaps if you were to buttress your entreaties with the means to oblige them...
i am not a wealthy woman.
but you have a pension, have not you, from the sale of his books?
it is tainted money, doctor.
what a beautiful thought, marquise.
what thought is that?
that ill-gotten funds, borne of his degeneracy, might now effect his salvation.
if you are truly determined to step out of the shadow of your husband's celebrity --
oh, but i am!
-- words alone are insufficient.
it is beyond perversity. that honor should carry a price tag...
do not toy with me, doctor.
now is the time to secure your epitaph. the benevolent marquise, charenton's most revered philanthropist... or satan's bride.
i am eternally in your debt.
and i in yours.
doctor... can i impart to you his cruelest trick?
of course.
once... long ago... in the folly of youth... he made me love him.
does not that please you?
very much.
I would prefer to have our brandy in the salon. there we can sit... side-by- side... before the fire.
I would rather read, thank-you.
you prefer a book to your husband's company?
if you will not read it to your own mama, then perhaps you ought not to be reading it at all.
it is not your cup of tea, mama.
come now, darling, give it a read.
"a habitu of cemeteries, his proudest conquest was a maid six decades his senior, deceased a dozen years."
oh, it is terrible! it is too, too terrible!  well. go on.
"the vigor with which he made love caused her bones to dislodge. still, he granted her the highest compliment he accorded any woman..."
yes?
"well worth the dig!"
you asked my name once; it is madeleine.
sweet, then? like the pastry?
you will get more from her with kindness than you will with force.
what could cause a tincture like this?
I am only a laundress; not a detective.
now's not the time to be cheeky, maddy.
my bed, gone! am i to freeze to death?
his rug.
and my chaise -- am i being denied the privilege of sitting -- of plopping down my ass --
that is a turkish weave, you numbskull; it costs more than you will earn in your lifetime --
valcour. his chair.
virgin birth -- ha! an entire religion, built on an oxymoron!
orvolle. his wine.  from now on, nothing but water at every meal --
-- water! --
-- and your meat shall be de-boned.
why this sudden torture?
because your writing continues, unchecked.
i did not create this world of ours! i only record it!
its horrors, perhaps! its darkest nightmares! and to what end? nothing but your own morbid gratification --
morbid gratification? no! i write what I have seen; the endless procession to the chopping block. we are all lined up at the guillotine, waiting for the crunch of the blade. rivers of blood are flowing beneath our feet, abbe.
what have they done to you now?
tortures so arcane, so medieval, even i have not the words to describe them. if you have an ounce of pity in your heart, you will throw caution aside, and unlock my door...
my newest book begins at my right cuff, continues across my back, and completes itself at the base of my left shoe...
i do not believe it!
if it were up to the doctor, you would be flayed alive.
a man after my own heart...
what in god's name am i to do with you? the more i forbid, the more you are provoked!
i could be convinced to abandon my writing, quite voluntarily.
what on earth would that require?
a night spent with the partner of my choice.
you expect me to pimp madeleine?
i was not talking about madeleine.
off with your clothes!
coulmier, you animal!
i do not mean to flirt, marquis!
oh, but you must, my pumpkin! sex without flirtation is merely rape!
now strip.
it is a potent aphrodisiac, is not it? power over another man.
your wig. remove your wig.
he will do no such thing.
it is a weak man who tests his mettle on the backs of children --
this child let loose the beast from its cage --
madeleine's not wicked. it is the marquis who is corrupted her. that is not her fault; it is mine.
i was wrong to free him, but so are you -- for taking all his treasures -- his quills and his ink --
not now, or we are both done for.
if only blood will appease you, then shed mine.
you would suffer in her stead?
had i known your taste in novels, i never would have taught you to read.
do not say that; reading's my salvation.
but why must you indulge in his pornography?
it is a hard day's wages, slaving away for madmen. what I have seen in life, it takes a lot to hold my interest.
ow!
but why heap such ghastly fantasies atop an already ghastly existence?
i put myself in his stories. i play the parts. each strumpet, each murderess.
why not act the role of heroines instead? queen esther from the bible, or st. joan?
if i was not such a bad woman on the page, abbe, I will hazard i could not be such a good woman in life.
good god, marquise --
I am on the brink of bankruptcy; my husband's resources are all but exhausted. and to what end, i ask you?
this is neither the time nor the place --
if only you would remained true to our contract! opiates, for his nerves! restraints! the man warrants a bed of nails --
i can say, with the utmost sincerity, that every franc you have given me has been put to sterling use.
you have no right to assault me in this fashion; I will call for my footman. I will have you removed --
am i a cursed woman, doctor? must i be betrayed by every man i meet --
public scorn carries a terrible sting. trust me. I am a woman who knows.
it is libelous; you would not dare.
and why not? my fortune, siphoned away. my reputation, past repair. I have nothing left to lose.  silence my husband, or you will come to know an infamy to rival his own.
you are more than a priest; you are an angel! am not he, maddy?
it is because of the marquis, is not it?
in part, yes.
he is not the man who is cast a shadow here.
the doctor's a respected man, a friend of the court --
i have not been to see the marquis for ages. and i will not -- ever again -- i swear it. i will not speak to him, i will not even utter his name --
is that a promise you can truly keep?
charenton has changed; it is not safe for you here.
I have you to look after me, have not i?
"...your wife."
tell him I am no fool. a prison's still a prison, even with chinese silk and chandeliers.
"by the time you read this, we will be long gone; bound for england or points beyond..."
tell him -- if he uncovers our whereabouts -- you will slit your wrists with a razor, and I will plunge a hat- pin through my heart.
you would do that, rather than forsake our love?
no. but tell him i would.
do not turn us out, abbe.
"turn you out?"
it is a sin against god for me to refuse your kindness. but my heart's held fast here...
by whom? the marquis?
mother's not half so blind as you.
madeleine, i... there are certain things... feelings... we must not voice.
why not?
they incite us to act. in ways we should not... cannot... a lesson the marquis would do well to learn.
go back to your room. quickly.
what? what have i done?
do not come back, not tonight, not again --
you will hate me now, will not you?
they have taken your clothes?
they decreed me a savage, and now they have made me one.
surely you have seen a man naked.
it is only been described to me. in your books.
i must say, in your novels you stoke the most unrealistic expectations.
you are far crueler than i, my sweet.
the abbe's sending me away. he fears for me here, what with the likes of you --
do not be fooled, madeleine! he fears for himself. he is like a man starving, and you -- ha! -- you are like a pork chop dolloped with heavy cream --
he is a man of god; he is true to his vows.
first and foremost, he is a man. you remind him of that fact, and he resents you for it.
it need not be; not if you have another story.
how do you propose i write it? with dust, upon the air?
you could whisper it through the walls of your cell.
yes; that is it! a final volley from us both!
go on, child.
tomorrow night, whisper a new tale to your neighbor, cleante. he will whisper it to his neighbor dauphin, who will whisper it to his neighbor franval --
-- who will whisper it to bouchon --
-- whose cell lies next to the linen cabinet! there, armed with a quill of my own, I will commit it to paper!
yes! you shall. of course you shall --
a tale more horrible than all the rest combined!
something to make the angels weep, and the saints to gasp for air...
if you would grant me a final favor, I would like the chance to explain myself --
do not come any closer, abbe. god's watching.
marquis? is that you?
for fuck's sake, who else would it be? the witching hour's arrived; you have alerted the others, yes?
I am no longer a man! i awoke to discover I would turned into a sparrow!
yes, well, i awoke to discover I would turned into a cat. if you do not do as i say, I will sink my little fangs into your drumsticks, and suck the marrow straight out of your bones.
at your service, count.
now give the signal.
"one day, fanchon's first client was a surgeon. he ran his fingers across her naked skin, pulling apart folds of flesh, inspecting each and every follicle..."
"one day, fanchon was visited by a surgeon. he ran his fingers across her naked skin, pulling apart folds of flesh, inspecting follicles..."
...yes, I have got that bit...
"what shall i ready?" asked fanchon. "my mouth, my ass or my succulent oyster?"
"with that, fanchon expelled a scream so extravagantly pitched, that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue --"
"with that, fanchon expelled a scream so extravagantly pitched, that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue --"
"to seal the wound, he took a poker from the fire --"
"...a poker... he took a poker from the fire..."
as you say, doctor.
he was so impressed with the marquis' tale that he chose to re-enact it, yes?
perhaps you will be so kind as to remind me of her name...
i beg you, doctor, do not make me say it.
her name, abbe.
oh, I am to be blamed now, am i?
your words drove bouchon to --
for fuck's sake, abbe! what am i to do? police my readers as you police me? suppose one of your precious wards had attempted to walk on water and drowned? would you condemn the bible? i think not!
an innocent child is dead.
so many authors are denied the gratification of a concrete response to their work. i am blessed, am i not?
it is no secret that you loved her.
oh, that is rich -- coming from her lapdog --
i saw the longing in your eye --
-- that was lust --
-- the passion in your heart --
do not confuse one organ with another --
i know, because i felt it myself --
i wanted to fuck her, that is all!
and did you?
it is not your province to ask.
you are no stranger to rape, marquis; and yet with her, you cooed. you courted. you begged.
go to hell!
why was it you never took her by force?
who is to say i did not?
was it impotence?
never!
then it must have been love --
i fucked her countless times! in every orifice! and all the while, she plead for more --
we inspected the body, marquis. she died a virgin.
i dare you. stab my flesh. which one of us will bleed?
tomorrow, we will cut out your tongue.
abbe de coulmier!
I am here.
surely you will grant me a final word.
of course.
my, my. you have exceeded my expectations.
and my own.
how is the patient faring?
poorly.
and you? it must have been an ordeal.
I am not the first man god has asked to shed blood in his name. i will not be the last.
will you sleep soundly tonight?
no, sir. plainly put, i never expect to sleep again.
free his mouth.
must not do that, sir.
i must grant him his last rites.
i do not take my orders from you; not anymore.
you would deny a dying man his salvation?
welcome to charenton, abbe du maupas.
I am pleased to have the new post, sir.
I am afraid that our endowment has shrivelled to a mere pittance; we are the laughing stock of all france. but -- on a happier note --
-- and the listless ones do the binding.
it is remarkable, doctor. the patients are so subdued; so docile.
they have the satisfaction only a hard day's labor can provide.
i do not believe it. the marquis de sade? you are actually publishing his novels?
ever since his unfortunate death, there is been a surge of interest in his work. I will use the profits to restore charenton to her former glory.
of course, everything's not as harmonious as it seems. i hope you have a strong constitution.
my years tending the lepers at st. emilion steeled me for life's grisliest offerings, doctor.
we have still a few lone incurables. prone to violence, to perversion.
I have stared into the face of evil...  ...and I have lived to tell the tale. now... for your own sake... let me write it down.
gibberish, my friend. he rants and he raves --
