indo-china -- jeff predicted it would go sky-high.
from the looks of davidson's cable, it might even go higher than that. and we have not even got a camera over there.
this could go off in a month -- or an hour.
I will pull somebody out of japan.
bryce, the only man for this job is sitting right here in town.  get me l. b. jefferies.
jefferies?
name me a better photographer.
but his leg!
do not worry -- it comes off today.
jefferies.
congratulations, jeff.
for what?
for getting rid of that cast.
who said i was getting rid of it?
this is wednesday.
gunnison -- how did you get to be such a big editor -- with such a small memory?
wrong day?
wrong week. next wednesday i emerge from this plaster cocoon.
that is too bad, jeff. well, i guess i can not be lucky every day. forget i called.
yeah. i sure feel sorry for you, gunnison. must be rough on you thinking of me wearing this cast another whole week.
where?
indo-china. got a code tip from the bureau chief this morning. the place is about to go up in smoke.
did not i tell you! did not i tell you it was the next place to watch?
you did.
okay. when do i leave? half-hour? an hour?
with that cast on -- you don't.
stop sounding stuffy. I will take pictures from a jeep. from a water buffalo if necessary.
you are too valuable to the magazine for us to play around with. I will send morgan or lambert.
swell. i get myself half-killed for you -- and you reward me by stealing my assignments.
i did not ask you to stand in the middle of that automobile race track.
you asked for something dramatically different! you got it!
so did you. goodbye, jeff.
you have got to get me out of here! six weeks -- sitting in a two-room apartment with nothing to do but look out the window at the neighbors!
read some good books.
I have been taking pictures so long i do not know how to read anymore.
I will send you some comic books.
listen -- if you do not pull me out of this swamp of boredom -- I will do something drastic.
like what?
I will -- I will get married. then I will never be able to go anywhere.
it is about time you got married -- before you turn into a lonesome and bitter old man.
can you see me -- rushing home to a hot apartment every night to listen to the automatic laundry, the electric dishwasher, the garbage disposal and a nagging wife.
jeff -- wives do not nag anymore -- they discuss.
yeah? maybe in the high rent districts they discuss -- but in my neighborhood, they still nag.
well -- you know best. call you later, jeff.
next time, have some good news.
readers' digest, april, 1939.
well, i only quote from the best.
i predicted it.
how?
stella -- in economics, a kidney ailment has no relationship to the stock market. absolutely none.
it crashed, did not it?
right now I would even welcome trouble.
you have got a hormone deficiency.
how can you tell that from a thermometer!
those sultry sun-worshipers you watch have not raised your temperature one degree in four weeks.
i knew it!
do not you ever heat that stuff up.
gives your circulation something to fight.  what kind of trouble?
lisa fremont.
you must be kidding. a beautiful young woman, and you a reasonably healthy specimen of manhood.
she expects me to marry her.
that is normal.
i do not want to.
that is abnormal.
I am not ready for marriage.
nonsense. a man is always ready for marriage -- with the right girl. and lisa fremont is the right girl for any man with half a brain, who can get one eye open.
she is all right.
behind every ridiculous statement is always hidden the true cause.  what is it? you have a fight?
no.
her father loading up the shotgun?
stella!
it is happened before, you know! some of the world's happiest marriage have started 'under the gun' you might say.
she is just not the girl for me.
she is only perfect.
too perfect. too beautiful, too talented, too sophisticated, too everything -- but what i want.
is what you want something you can discuss?
it is very simple. she belongs in that rarefied atmosphere of park avenue, expensive restaurants, and literary cocktail parties.
people with sense can belong wherever they are put.
can you see her tramping around the world with a camera bum who never has more than a week's salary in the bank?  if only she was ordinary.
you are never going to marry?
probably. but when i do, it will be to someone who thinks of life as more than a new dress, a lobster dinner, and the latest scandal. i need a woman who will go anywhere, do anything, and love it.
the only honest thing to do is call it off. let her look for somebody else.
i can just hear you now. "get out of here you perfect, wonderful woman! you are too good for me!"
that is the hard part.
look, mr. jefferies. I am not educated. I am not even sophisticated. but i can tell you this -- when a man and a woman see each other, and like each other -- they should come together -- wham like two taxies on broadway. not sit around studying each other like specimens in at bottle.
there is an intelligent way to approach marriage.
intelligence! nothing has caused the human race more trouble. modern marriage!
we have progressed emotionally in --
baloney! once it was see somebody, get excited, get married -- now, it is read books, fence with four syllable words, psychoanalyze each other until you can not tell a petting party from a civil service exam
people have different emotional levels that --
ask for trouble and you get it. why there is a good boy in my neighborhood who went with a nice girl across the street for three years. then he refused to marry her. why? -- because she only scored sixty-one on a look magazine marriage quiz!
when i married myles, we were both maladjusted misfits. we still are. and we have loved every minute of it.
that is fine, stella. now would you make me a sandwich?
okay -- but I am going to spread some common sense on the bread. lisa fremont's loaded to her fingertips with love for you. I will give you two words of advice. marry her.
she pay you much?
how is your leg?
mmmm -- hurts a little.
and your stomach?
empty as a football.
and you love life?
not too active.
anything else bothering you?
uh-huh.
the lisa fremont who never wears the same dress twice?
only because it is expected of her.
depends on the quote. let's see -- there is the plane tickets over, import duties, hidden taxes, profit markups --
-- a steal at eleven hundred dollars.
that dress should be listed on the stock exchange.
we sell a dozen a day in this price range.
who buys them? tax collectors?
something big going on somewhere?
going on right here. it is a big night.
it is just a run-of-the-mill monday. the calendar's loaded with them.
it is opening night of the last depressing week of l. b. jefferies in a cast.
has not been any big demand for tickets.
picked it up in shanghai -- which has also seen better days.
it is cracked -- and you never use it. and it is too ornate. I am sending up a plain, flat silver one -- with just your initials engraved.
now that is no way to spend your hard- earned money!
i wanted to, jeff.  oh!
what would you think of starting off with dinner at the "21"?
you have, perhaps, an ambulance outside?
big enough?
fine. corkscrew's on the right.
i could not think of anything more boring and tiresome than what you have been through. and the last week must be the hardest.
yeah -- i want to get this thing off and get moving.
well, I am going to make this a week you will never forget.
what a day I have had!
tired?
not a bit. i was all morning in a sales meeting. then over to the waldorf for a quick drink with madame dufresne -- just over from paris. with some spy reports. back to the "21" for lunch with the harper's bazaar people -- that is when i ordered dinner. then two fall showings -- twenty blocks apart. then i had to have a cocktail with leland and slim hayward -- we are trying to get his next show.  then i had to dash back and change.
tell me -- what was slim hayward wearing?
she looked very cool. she had on a mint green --
you can not buy that kind of publicity.
that is good news.
someday you might want to open up your own studio here.
how could i run it from say -- pakistan?
jeff -- is not it time you came home? you could pick your assignment.
i wish there was one i wanted.
make the one you want.
you mean leave the magazine?
yes.
for what?
for yourself -- and me.  i could get you a dozen assignments tomorrow... fashion, portraits --
do not laugh. -- i could do it!
that is what I am afraid of.  could you see me -- driving down to the fashion salon in a jeep -- wearing combat boots and a three day beard?
i could see you looking handsome and successful in a dark blue flannel suit.
let's not talk any more nonsense, huh?
that is what is know as "manless melancholia."
miss lonely hearts. at least that is something you will never have to worry about.
oh? you can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street?
not exactly -- but we have a little apartment here that is probably about as popular as yours.  you, of course, remember miss torso.
well, she picked the most prosperous looking one.
she is not in love with him -- or any of them.
how can you tell that -- from here?
you said it resembled my apartment, did not you?
oh... some songwriter. in the studio apartment. lives alone. probably had an unhappy marriage.
i think it is enchanting.
almost as if it were being written especially for us.
no wonder he is having so much trouble with it.
if you are saying all this just because you do not want to tell me the truth, because you are hiding something from me, then maybe i can understand --
there is nothing I am hiding. it is just that --
it does not make sense to me. what is so different about it here from over there, or any place you go, that one person could not live in both places just as easily?
some people can. now if you will let me explain --
what is it but traveling from one place to another, taking pictures? it is just like being a tourist on an endless vacation.
all right. that is your opinion. you are entitled to it, but --
it is ridiculous for you to say that it can only be done by a special, private little group of anointed people.
lisa, simmer down -- will you?
you can not fit in here -- i can not fit in there. according to you, people should be born, live an die on the same --
lisa! shut up!
did you ever eat fish heads and rice?
of course not.
you might have to, if you went with me. ever try to keep warm in a c-54, at fifteen thousand feet, at twenty below zero?
oh, i do that all the time. whenever i have a few minutes after lunch.
ever get shot at, run over, sandbagged at night because people got unfavorable publicity from your camera?
those high heels would be a lot of use in the jungle -- and those nylons and six-ounce lingerie --
three.
well, they would be very stylish in finland -- just before you froze to death. begin to get the idea?
huh? try and find a raincoat in brazil. even when it is not raining  lisa, on this job you carry one suitcase. your home is the available transportation. you sleep rarely, bathe even less, and sometime the food you even look at when they were alive!
jeff, you do not have to be deliberately repulsive just to impress me I am wrong.
if anything, I am making it sound good.  let's face it, lisa... you are not made for that kind of a life. few people are.
you do not think either one of us could ever change?
right now, it does not seem so.
and it is deflating to find out that the only way i can be part of it -- is to take out a subscription to your magazine. i guess I am not the girl i thought i was.
there is nothing wrong with you, lisa. you have the town in the palm of your hand.
not quite -- it seems.  goodbye, jeff.
you mean "goodnight."
i mean what i said.
can not we just sort of keep things status quo?
without any future?
hello.
gunnison?
yeah. is that you, jeff?
it is me.
something wrong?
the word is "everything." now what time does my plane leave tuesday?
jeff --
i do not care where it goes -- just as long as I am on it.
okay. indo-china. tuesday. we will pick you up.
that is more like it. goodnight, old buddy.
yeah.
the insurance company would be a lot happier if you slept in your bed, not the wheelchair.
how did you know!
eyes bloodshot. must have been staring out the window for hours.
i was.
what will you do if one of them catches you?
depends one which one.
keep your mind off her.
she is real eat, drink and be merry girl.
and she will end up fat, alcoholic and miserable.
speaking of misery, miss lonely hearts drank herself to sleep again. alone.
poor girl. someday she will find her happiness.
and some man will lose his.
is not there anyone in the neighborhood who might cast an eye in her direction?
well, the salesman could be available soon.
he and his wife splitting up?
it is hard to figure. he went out several time last night, in the rain carrying his sample case.
is not he a salesman?
now what could he sell at three in the morning?
flashlights. luminous dials for watches. house numbers that light up.
he was taking something out of the apartment. I am certain.
his personal effects. he is probably running away -- the coward.
sometimes it is worse to stay than it is to run.
but it takes a particularly low type of man to do it.
what about this morning? any developments?
no. the shades are still drawn in their apartment.
in this heat?  they are up now.
a federal offense.
get back there! he will see you!
I am not shy. I have been looked at before.
it is not an ordinary look. it is the kind of look a man gives when he is afraid somebody might be watching him.
goodbye, mr. jefferies. I will see you tomorrow.
uh-huh.
I am not exactly on the other side of the room.
your mind is. and when i want a man, i want all of him.
do not you ever have any problems?
i have one now.
so do i.
tell me about it.
why would a man leave his apartment three times, on a rainy night, with a suitcase? and come back three times?
he likes the way his wife welcomes him home.
not that salesman's wife. and why did not he go to work today?
homework. it is more interesting.
what is interesting about a butcher's knife and a small saw wrapped up in a newspaper?
nothing, thank heaven.
why has not he gone into his wife's bedroom all day?
i would not dare answer that.
lisa -- there is something terribly wrong.
what do you think?
something too frightful to utter.
jeff -- if you could only see yourself.
now, lisa --
sitting around, looking out a window to kill time, is one thing -- but doing it the way you are --  -- with, with binoculars, and with wild opinions about every little movement you see -- is, is diseased!
do you think i consider this recreation?
i do not know what you consider it -- but if you do not stop it, I am getting out of here.
you would better before you catch the disease!
what is it you are looking for?
i want to find out what is wrong with the salesman's wife. does that make me sound like a madman?
what makes you think something is wrong with her?
a lot of things. she is an invalid who needs constant care -- and yet the husband nor anyone else has been in there all day.
maybe she died.
where is the doctor -- the undertakers?
she could be under sedatives, sleeping.  he is in the room now.
lisa, please!
there is nothing to see.
there is -- I have seen things through that window! bickering, family fights, mysterious trips at night, knives, saws, rope -- and since last evening, not a sight or sound of his wife! now you tell me where she is and what she is doing!
maybe he is leaving his wife. i do not know, and i do not care. lots of people have saws, knives and ropes around their houses. lots of men do not speak to their wives all day. lots of wives nag, and men hate them, and trouble starts -- but very, very, very few of them end up in murder -- if that is what you are thinking.
it is pretty hard to stay away from that word is not is?
you could see all the things he did, could not you?
what are you getting at?
you could see that he did because he had the shades in his apartment up, and walked along the corridor, and the streets and the backyard?
yeah.
jeff, do you think a murderer would let you see all that? that he should not keep his shades down and hide behind them?
that is where he is being clever. acting nonchalant.
and that is where you are not being clever. he would not parade his crime in front of the open shades.
no comment.
do not you see how silly you are being?
okay, lisa -- probably you are right. he is probably in the bedroom now, entertaining his wife with the indian rope trick. I will admit to criminal insanity. now when do i start the cure?
the name on the second floor rear mailbox reads mr. and mrs. lars, that is l-a-r-s, lars thorwald.
what is the apartment house number?
125 west ninth street.
okay, chief. what is my next assignment.
to get on home.
all right -- but what is he doing now?
stella, i -- i can not tell you what a welcome sight this is. no wonder your husband's still in love with you.
police?
huh?
you called the police?
oh. well, yes and no. it was not an official call. he is just a friend.  an old, ornery friend.
I am just going to get the name of their truck!
I will watch the alleyway -- in case it goes that way.
you did not see the killing, or the body? how do you know there was a murder?
because everything that man's done has been suspicious. trips at night in the rain, saws, knives, trunks with rope, and a wife that is not there any more.
I will admit it all has a mysterious sound -- but is could mean a number of different things. murder is the least likely.
go ahead, doyle -- tell me he is an unemployed magician -- amusing the neighborhood with sleight-of-hand.
it is too stupid and obvious a way to murder -- in full view of fifty windows -- and then sit over there --  -- smoking a cigar -- waiting for the police to pick him up.
well, officer -- do your duty.
you have got a lot to lean about homicide, jeff. morons have committed murder so shrewdly that it took a hundred trained police minds to catch them. that salesman would not just knock off his wife after dinner, toss her in a trunk and put her in storage.
I will bet it is been done.
almost everything's been done -- under panic. but this is a thousand to one shot. that man's still sitting around his apartment; he is not panicked.
you think i made all this up?
i think you saw something -- that probably has a very simple explanation.
for instance?
his wife took a trip.
she -- was -- an -- invalid!
you told me.  I have got to run, jeff.
all right -- you do not believe me.
i -- uh -- will not report it to the department. let me poke into a little on my own. no point in you getting any ridiculous publicity.
thanks.
we know the wife is gone. I will see if i can find out where.
do that.
by the way  what happened to your leg?
i was jaywalking.
he has a six months lease, and has used up a little over five and a half months of it.  quiet. drinks, but not to drunkenness. pays his bill promptly, with money earned as a consume jewelry salesman -- wholesale. keeps to himself, and none of the neighbors got close to him, or his wife.
i think they missed their chance with her.
she never left the apartment --
then where is she -- in the ice box?
-- until yesterday morning.
what time?
six ayem.
i think that is about the time i fell asleep.
too bad. the thorwalds were just leaving the apartment house at that time.
feel a little foolish?
not yet.
who said they left then?
who left -- where?
the thorwalds -- at six in the morning?
the building superintendent, and two tenants. flat statements -- no hesitation. and they all jibed to the letter. the thorwalds were leaving for the railroad station.
now how could anybody guess that? they had, perhaps, signs on their luggage, "grand central or bust!"?
the superintendent met thorwald coming back. he said thorwald told him he had just put his wife on the train for the country.
a very convenient guy -- this superintendent. have you checked his bank deposits lately?
jeff -- huh?
well -- what good is his information?!! it is a second-hand version of an unsupported statement by the murderer himself -- thorwald! anybody actually see the wife get on the train?
i hate to remind you -- but this all started because you said she was murdered. now did anyone, including you, actually see her murdered?
doyle -- are you interested in solving a case, or making me look foolish?
if possible -- both.
well then do a good job of it! get over there, and search thorwald's apartment! it must be knee-deep in evidence.
i can not do that.
i mean when he goes out for a paper, or a drink, or something. what he does not know will not hurt him.
i can not do it even if he is gone.
what is the matter? does he have a courtesy card from the police department?
now do not get me mad! even a detective can not walk in anybody's apartment and search it. if i were ever caught in there, I would lose my badge inside of ten minutes!
just make sure you are not caught. if you find something, you have got a murderer and nobody will care about a couple of house rules. if you find nothing -- he is clear.
at the risk of sounding stuffy, jeff -- I will remind you of the constitution, and the phrase "search warrant" issued by a judge who knows the bill of rights verbatim. he must ask for evidence.
give him evidence.
i can hear myself starting out. "your honor -- i have a friend who is an amateur sleuth, an one night, after a heavy supper --"  he would throw the new york state penal code right in my face. -- and it is six volumes.
by morning there might not be anything left to find in his apartment.
a detective's nightmare.
what do you need before you can search -- bloody footsteps leading up to the door?
one thing i do not need is heckling! you called and asked me for help -- and now you are acting like a taxpayer!
how did we ever stand each other in that same plane for three years?
you know, every day for three years i asked myself that same question?
ever get an answer?
yeah -- frequently -- it ran something like this: "your request for transfer turned down --"
forget the story -- find the trunk. mrs. thorwald's in it!
oh -- i almost forgot!
is -- is anna -- who i think it is?
mrs. thorwald.
hello.
mrs. doyle?
yes.
jeff again.  has tom come in yet?
not yet, jeff.
you have not even heard from him?
not a word.
it is something really important, jeff?
I am afraid it is, tess.
I will have him call the moment i hear from him.
tell him not to waste time calling. to get over here soon as he can. i think thorwald's pulling out tonight.
who is thorwald?
he knows.  do not worry, tess. it is a man.
goodnight, you idiot.
goodnight, mrs doyle.
it does not seem to be in any hurry.
he was just laying all his things out on one of the beds! coats, suits, shirts, sox, even his wife's --
that alligator bag his wife had on the bedpost --
what about it?
he had it hidden in the dresser! well, at least it was in there. he took it out, went to the phone and called somebody long distance. -- his wife's jewelry was in the handbag. and something about it worried him. he was asking somebody advice over the phone.
someone not his wife?
i never saw him ask her for advise before.  but she volunteered plenty.
i wonder where he is going now?
i do not know.
suppose he does not come back again?
he will. all his things are still piled on the bed.
well, i guess it is safe to put on some lights now.
not yet!
all day long I have tried to keep my mind on work.
thinking about thorwald?
and you, and you friend doyle --  did you hear from him again -- since he left?
not a word. he was going to check on the railroad station, and the trunk. he must be still on it.
something on your mind, lisa?
it does not make sense to me.
what doesn't?
women are not that unpredictable.
lisa -- i can not guess what you are thinking.
a woman has a favorite handbag -- it always hangs on her bedpost where she can get at it. then she takes a trip and leaves it behind. why?
because she did not know she was going on a trip -- and where she was going she would not need a handbag.
but only her husband would know that.  and the jewelry! women do not keep all their jewelry in a purse, all tangled, getting scratched and twisted up.
do they hide it in their husband's clothes?
they do not! and they do not leave it behind them. a woman going anywhere but the hospital would always take makeup, perfume and jewelry.
inside stuff?
basic equipment. you do not leave it behind in your husband's drawer in your favorite handbag.
I am with you, sweetie, but detective thomas j. doyle has a pat answer for that.
that mrs. thorwald left at six ayem yesterday with her husband?
that is what the witnesses told him.
well, i have a pat rebuttal for mr. doyle -- that could not be mrs. thorwald -- or i do not know women.
still -- those witnesses.
we will agree they saw a woman -- but she was not mrs. thorwald. -- that is, yet.
I would like to see your friend's face when we tell him. he does not sound like much of a detective.
do not be too hard on him. he is a steady worker. i wish he would get there, though.
do not rush me. we have all night.
we have all -- what?
night. I am going to stay with you.
you will have to clear that through my landlord --
i have the whole weekend off.
well that is fine, but i only have one bed, and --
say anything else, and I will stay tomorrow night too.
lisa, i will not be able to give you any --
you said I would have to live out of one suitcase  I will bet yours is not this small?
that is a suitcase?
a mark cross overnight case, anyway. compact, but ample enough.
I will trade you -- my feminine intuition for a bed for the night.
I would be no better than thorwald, to refuse.
from his landlord -- once a month.
it is utterly beautiful.  i wish i could be creative.
you are. you have a talent for creating difficult situations.
i do?
staying the night here, uninvited.
surprise -- is the most important element of attack.  and beside, you are not up on your private eye literature. when they are in trouble, it is always their girl friday who gets them out of it.
the same girl who keeps him out of the clutches of seductive show girls, and over-passionate daughters of the rich.
the same.
but he never ends up marrying her. strange.
weird.  why do not i slip into something comfortable?
you mean -- like the kitchen? and make us some coffee?
exactly what i had in mind -- along with some brandy.
enough to scare me that you would not get here in time, and we would lose him.
you think he is getting out of here?
everything he owns is laid out on the bedroom, ready for packing.
jewelry?
he has his wife's jewelry hidden in among his clothes over there.
you sure it belongs to his wife?
it was in her favorite handbag -- and, mr. doyle, that can lead to only one conclusion.
namely?
that was not mrs. thorwald who left with him yesterday morning?
you figured that out, huh?
like disposing of their wives?
get that idea out of your mind. it will only lead you in the wrong direction.
did you ever own a saw?
well, in the garage, back home, we --
and how many people did you cut up with the couple of with it? or hundred knives you have probably owned in your lifetime?
but I am not a killer!
your logic is backward.
of course, it is normal for a man to tie his trunk up with a heavy rope.
when the lock is broken -- yes.
mrs. -- thorwald's -- clothes. -- clean -- carefully packed -- not too stylish -- but presentable.
did not you take it to the crime lab?
i would say that is looked as if she was not coming back.
that is what they call a family problem.
if I would been careful piloting that reconnaissance plane, you would not have taken the kind of pictures that got you a medal, a big job, fame, money --
all the things i hate.
i hate funny exit lines.
who was the trunk addressed to?
oh -- that phone call!  i gave them your number -- hope you do not mind.
that depends on who "they" were.
the police department at merritsville. they called to report. the trunk was just picked up -- by mrs. anna thorwald.
do you suppose it is ethical to watch a man with binoculars, and a long- focus lens -- until you can see the freckles on the back of his neck, and almost read his mail -- do you suppose it is ethical even if you prove he did not commit a crime?
I am not much on rear window ethics.
of course, they have the same chance. they can look at me like a bug under glass, if they want to.
jeff -- if anybody walked in here, i do not think they would believe what they see.
huh?
you and me with long faces -- plunged into despair -- because we find out that a man did not kill his wife. we are two of the most frightening ghouls I have ever known.
whatever happened to that old saying "love thy neighbor."
i think I will start reviving it tomorrow, with say -- miss torso for a start?
did mr. doyle think i stole this case.
no, lisa -- i do not think he did.
I will rephrase the question.
thank you.
do you like it?
well, -- if there was one less thread this way --  -- and two less that way --  -- i might give up bachelorhood.
for a minute, doyle almost had me convinced i was wrong.
but you are not?
in the whole courtyard, only one person did not come to the window.
do you think this was worth waiting all day to see?
is he cleaning house?
he is washing down the bathroom walls.
mrs. thorwald?
uh-uh. the dog. i think i know now why thorwald killed it.
well?
it is just a picture of the backyard, that is all.
i know. but there is one important change. the flowers in thorwald's pet flower bed.
you mean the one the dog was sniffing around?
and digging in.  look at that flower bed.
there is a dip at this end. and since when do flowers grow shorter in two weeks?
there is something buried there.
something is in there. those flowers have been taken up, and put back again.
it could be -- the knife, and the saw.
you should not have let her do that! if he ever --
look!
thank heaven that is over!
i have a feeling we have just begun.
i wonder.
what?
miss lonely hearts just laid out something that looks like sodium trieckonal capsules.
you can tell that from here?
i handled enough of those red pills to put everybody in new jersey asleep for the winter.
would four of them -- ?
no -- but it makes the rest easy to take. and she is reading the bible.
then i would not worry too much. but let's keep an eye on her.
you know? you might not be too bad a bargain for lisa after all.
you do not say! i might just take that compliment as an insult.
was not that close?
too close.
suppose mrs. thorwald's wedding ring was among the jewelry he has in the handbag.  during that phone conversation he held up three rings -- one with a diamond -- one with a big stone of some kind -- and one plain gold band.
and the last thing she would leave behind would be her wedding ring!  do you ever leave yours at home?
what are you two talking about?
got a shovel?
no.
there is probably one in the basement.
now wait a minute --
jeff, if you are squeamish, just do not look.
now hold on. I am not a bit squeamish about what might be under those flowers -- but i do not care to watch two women end up like that dog --
you know, miss fremont -- he might just have something there.
there is no point in taking unnecessary chances.  give me the phone book, lisa.
what for?
maybe i can get thorwald out of the apartment.
I will try to give you at least fifteen minutes.
how?
chelsea 2-7099.  we scared him once. maybe we can scare him again.  I am using that word "we" a little too freely, i guess. i do not take any of the chances.
shall we vote him in, stella?
hello.
did you get my note?
well -- did you get it, thorwald?
who are you?
I will give you a chance to find out. meet me in the bar at the brevoort -- and do it right away.
why should i?
for a little business meeting -- to settle the estate of your late wife.
i do not know what you mean.
now stop wasting time, thorwald, or I will hang up and call the police.
i only have a hundred dollars or so.
that is a start. I am at the brevoort now. I will be looking for you.
this is doyle's house.
this is l. b. jefferies, a friend of tom's. who am i talking with?
this is the baby sitter.
oh. when are they expected home?
I am hired 'til one. they went to dinner and maybe night-clubbing.
well, if he calls in, tell him to get in touch with l. b. jefferies right away. i might have quite a surprise for him.
does he have your number, mr. jefferies?
he has it. thank you.
goodnight.
a man is assaulting a woman at one two five west ninth street. second floor rear. make it fast.
your name?
l. b. jefferies.
phone number?
chelsea 2-5598.
two minutes.
what is she trying to do? why does not she turn him in?
smart girl.
smart? she will be arrested!
that will get her out of there, will not it?
when you took your first snapshot -- did you ever think it would bring you to this?
stella -- how long do you think he will stay there?
unless he is dumber than i think, he will not wait 'til his lease is up.
what do you need money for?
to bail lisa out of jail.
one hundred and twenty-seven.
how much do you think you will need?
first offense burglary --  -- probably two-fifty.  the piggy bank.
ten here.
thirty-three here. totals one-ninety. not enough.
i got twenty or so in my purse. give me what you have got.
what about the rest?
when those cops get a look at miss fremont -- they will even contribute.
jefferies.
this is doyle, jeff.
tom, I have got something real big for you.
look jeff, do not louse up my night with another man killer stuffing a grisly trunk that turns out to be --
listen to me! lisa's been arrested.
your lisa?
my lisa. she went into thorwald's apartment, and he came back. the only way i could get her out was to call the police.
i told you that --
i know what you told me! she went in to get evidence, and she came out with it.
like what?
like mrs. thorwald's wedding ring. if that woman were still alive, she would be wearing it.
a possibility.
a fact! last night he killed a dog for pawing in his garden. why? because he had something buried in there. something a dog could scent.
like an old hambone?
i do not know what pet name thorwald had for his wife. and that night he went out half a dozen times with the metal suitcase. he was not taking his possessions, because they are up in his apartment now!
you think perhaps it was "old hambone?"
in sections! and one other thing, doubting tom -- it just occurred to me that all the calls thorwald made were long distance! if he called his wife the day she left -- after she arrived in merritsville -- why did she need to send him a postcard saying she would arrived?
where did they take lisa?
precinct six. i sent a friend over with bail money.
maybe you will not need it. I will run it down, jeff.
just do not dally. thorwald knows he is being watched. he will not hang around long.
if that ring checks out, we will give him an escort. so long.
can you get me that ring back?
no.
tell her to bring it back!
i can't. the police have it by now.
then if the police get me -- you will not be around to laugh!
get an ambulance.  do not move. try to lie still.
lisa -- i -- i -- can not tell you how scared i was that you -- you might --
shut up. I am all right.
think you have got enough for a search warrant now?
