toby... who the fuck is toby? toby... toby... think... think... think...
it is not about a nice girl who meets a sensitive boy. now granted that is what "true blue" is about, no argument about that.
hey, fuck all that, I am making a point here. you are going to make me lose my train of thought.
oh fuck, toby's that little china girl.
what is that?
i found this old address book in a jacket i am not worn in a coon's age. toby what? what the fuck was her last name?
then one day she meets a john holmes motherfucker, and it is like, whoa baby. this mother fucker's like charles bronson in "the great escape." he is diggin' tunnels. now she is gettin' this serious dick action, she is feelin' something she am not felt since forever. pain.
chew? toby chew? no.
it hurts. it hurts her. it should not hurt. her pussy should be bubble-yum by now. but when this cat fucks her, it hurts. it hurts like the first time. the pain is reminding a fuck machine what is was like to be a virgin. hence, "like a virgin."
wong?
fuck you, wrong. I am right! what the fuck do you know about it anyway? you are still listening to jerry- fucking-vale.
not wrong, dumb ass, wong! you know, like the chinese name?
give me this fucking thing.
what the fuck do you think you are doin'? give me my book back!
I am sick of fuckin' hearin' it joe; I will give it back when we leave.
whaddaya mean, give it to me when we leave, give it back now.
for the past fifteen minutes now, you have just been droning on with names. "toby... toby... toby... toby wong... toby wong... toby chung... fuckin' charlie chan." i got madonna's big dick outta my right ear, and toby jap i-don't-know-what, outta my left.
what do you care?
when you are annoying as hell, i care a lot.
give me my book.
you gonna put it away?
I am going to do whatever i wanna do with it.
well, then, I am afraid I am going to have to keep it.
joe, you want me to shoot him for you?
shit, you shoot me in a dream, you better wake up and apologize.
have you guys been listening to k- billy's super sounds of the seventies weekend?
yeah, it is fuckin' great is not it?
can you believe the songs they been playin'?
no, i can't. you know what i heard the other day? "heartbeat-it's lovebeat," by little tony defranco and the defranco family. i have not heard that since i was in fifth fuckin' grade.
when i was coming down here, i was playin' it. and "the night the lights went out in georgia" came on. now i am not heard that song since it was big, but when it was big, i heard it a million-trillion times. I am listening to it this morning, and this was the first time i ever realized that the lady singing the song, was the one who killed andy.
no, she did it. she killed the cheatin' wife, too.
who gives a damn?
I will take care of this, you guys leave the tip.  and when i come back, i want my book back.
sorry, it is my book now.
blonde, shoot this piece of shit, will ya?
c'mon, throw in a buck.
uh-uh. i do not tip.
whaddaya mean you do not tip?
i do not believe in it.
you do not believe in tipping?
i do not even know a jew who would have the balls to say that. so let's get this straight. you never ever tip?
i do not tip because society says i gotta. i tip when somebody deserves a tip. when somebody really puts forth an effort, they deserve a little something extra. but this tipping automatically, that shit's for the birds. as far as I am concerned, they are just doin' their job.
I would go over twelve percent for that.
look, i ordered coffee. now we have been here a long fuckin' time, and she is only filled my cup three times. when i order coffee, i want it filled six times.
these ladies are not starvin' to death. they make minimum wage. when i worked for minimum wage, i was not lucky enough to have a job that society deemed tipworthy.
ahh, now we are getting down to it. it is not just that he is a cheap bastard -
do you know what this is? it is the world's smallest violin, playing just for the waitresses.
you do not have any idea what you are talking about. these people bust their ass. this is a hard job.
so's working at mcdonald's, but you do not feel the need to tip them. they are servin' ya food, you should tip em. but no, society says tip these guys over here, but not those guys over there. that is bullshit.
waitressing is the number one occupation for female non-college graduates in this country. it is the one job basically any woman can get, and make a living on. the reason is because of tips.
fuck all that.
okay ramblers, let's get to rambling. wait a minute, who did not throw in?
mr. pink.
mr. pink?  why?
he do not tip.
he do not tip?  you do not tip? why?
he do not believe in it.
he do not believe in it?  you do not believe in it?
nope.
shut up!  cough up the buck, ya cheap bastard, i paid for your goddamn breakfast.
because you paid for the breakfast, I am going to tip. normally i wouldn't.
whatever. just throw in your dollar, and let's move.  see what I am dealing with here. infants. I am fuckin' dealin' with infants.
hey, just cancel that shit right now! you are hurt. you are hurt really fucking bad, but you am not dying.
all this blood is scaring the shit outta me. I am going to die, i know it.
oh excuse me, i did not realize you had a degree in medicine. are you a doctor? are you a doctor? answer me please, are you a doctor?
no, I am not!
say-the-goddamn-words: you are going to be okay!
I am okay.
correct.
just hold on buddy boy. hold on, and wait for joe. i can not do anything for you, but when joe gets here, which should be anytime now, he will be able to help you. we are just going to sit here, and wait for joe. who are we waiting for?
joe.
bet your sweet ass we are.
i am not going anywhere. I am right here. I am not going to leave ya.
larry, I am so scared, would you please hold me.
look, i do not wanna be a fly in the ointment, but if help does not come soon, i got to see a doctor. i do not give a fuck about jail, i just do not wanna die.
you are not going to fucking die, all right?
i was not born yesterday. I am hurt, and I am hurt bad.
it is not good...
hey, bless your heart for what you are trying to do. i was panicking for a moment, but I have got my senses back now. the situation is, I am shot in the belly. and without medical attention, I am going to die.
i can' take you to a hospital.
fuck jail! i do not give a shit about jail. but i can not die. you do not have to take me in. just drive me up to the front, drop me on the sidewalk. I will take care of myself. i will not tell them anything. i swear to fucking god, i will not tell 'em anything. look in my eyes, look right in my eyes.  i-won't-tell-them-anything. you will be safe.
lie back down, and try to -
I am going to die! i need a doctor! I am begging you, take me to a doctor.
gun shot.
oh that is just fucking great! where is brown?
dead.
goddamn, goddamn! how did he die?
how the fuck do you think? the cops shot him.
oh this is bad, this is so bad.  is it bad?
as opposed to good?
this is so fucked up. somebody fucked us big time.
you really think we were set up?
you even doubt it? i do not think we got set up, i know we got set up! i mean really, seriously, where did all those cops come from, huh? one minute they are not there, the next minute they are there. i did not hear any sirens. the alarm went off, okay. okay, when an alarm goes off, you got an average of four minutes response time. unless a patrol car is cruising that street, at that particular moment, you got four minutes before they can realistically respond. in one minute there were seventeen blue boys out there. all loaded for bear, all knowing exactly what the fuck they were doing, and they were all just there! remember that second wave that showed up in the cars? those were the ones responding to the alarm. but those other motherfuckers were already there, they were waiting for us.  you have not thought about this?
i have not had a chance to think. first i was just trying to get the fuck outta there. and after we got away, I have just been dealin' with him.
well, you better start thinking about it. cause i, sure as fuck, am thinking about it. in fact, that is all I am thinking about. i came this close to just driving off. whoever set us up, knows about this place. there could have been cops sitting here waiting for me. for all we know, there is cops, driving fast, on their way here now.
let's go in the other room...
what the fuck am i doing here? i felt funny about this job right off. as soon as i felt it i should said "no thank you", and walked. but i never fucking listen. every time i ever got burned buying weed, i always knew the guy was not right. i just felt it. but i wanted to believe him. if he is not lyin' to me, and it really is thai stick, then whoa baby. but it is never thai stick. and i always said if i felt that way about a job, I would walk. and i did, and i didn't, because of fuckin' money!
what is done is done, i need you cool. are you cool?
I am cool.
splash some water on your face. take a breather.
want a smoke?
why not?
okay, let's go through what happened. we are in the place, everything's going fine. then the alarm gets tripped. i turn around and all these cops are outside. you are right, it was like, bam! i blink my eyes are they are there. everybody starts going apeshit. then mr. blonde starts shootin' all the -
that is not correct.
what is wrong with it?
the cops did not show up after the alarm went off. they did not show till after mr. blonde started shooting everyone.
as soon as i heard the alarm, i saw the cops.
I am telling ya, it was not that soon. they did not let their presence be known until after mr. blonde went off. I am not sayin' they were not there, I am sayin' they were there. but they did not move in till mr. blonde became a madman. that is how i know we were set up. you can see that, can not you, mr. white?
look, enough of this "mr white" shit -
do not tell me your name, i do not want to know! i sure as hell am not going to tell ya mine.
you are right, this is bad.  how did you get out?
shot my way out. everybody was shooting, so i just blasted my way outta there.
tagged a couple of cops. did you kill anybody?
a few cops.
no real people?
uh-uh, just cops.
could you believe mr. blonde?
that was one of the most insane fucking things I have ever seen. why the fuck would joe hire somebody like that?
i do not wanna kill anybody. but if i got to get out that door, and you are standing in my way, one way of the other, you are gettin' outta my way.
that is the way i look at it. a choice between doin' ten years, and takin' out some stupid motherfucker, am not no choice at all. but i am not no madman either. what the fuck was joe thinkin'? you can not work with a guy like that. that motherfucker's unstable. what do you think? do you think he panicked, or ya think he is just trigger-happy?
i think he is a sick fuckin' maniac! we are awful goddamn lucky he did not tag us, when he shot up the place. i came this fucking close -  to taking his ass out myself. everybody panics. when things get tense, everybody panics. everybody. i do not care what your name is, you can not help it. it is human nature. but ya panic on the inside. ya panic in your head. ya give yourself a couple a seconds of panic, then you get a grip and deal with the situation. what you do not do, is shoot up the place and kill everybody.
what you are supposed to do is act like a fuckin' professional. a psychopath is not a professional. you can not work with a psychopath, 'cause ya do not know what those sick assholes are going to do next. i mean, jesus christ, how old do you think that black girl was? twenty, maybe twenty-one?
did ya see what happened to anybody else?
me and mr. orange jumped in the car and mr. brown floored it. after that, i do not know what went down.
at that point it became every man for himself. as far as mr. blonde or mr. blue are concerned, i am not got the foggiest. once i got out, i never looked back.
what do you think?
what do i think? i think the cops caught them, or killed 'em.
not even a chance they punched through? you found a hole.
yeah, and that was a fucking miracle. but if they did get away, where the fuck are they?
you do not think it is possible, one of them got a hold of the diamonds and pulled a -
nope.
how can you be so sure?
i got the diamonds.
where?
i got 'em, all right?
where? are they out in the car?
no, they are not in the car. no, i do not have them on me. ya wanna go with me and get 'em? yes, we can go right now. but first listen to what I am telling you. we were fuckin' set up! somebody is in league with the cops. we got a judas in our midst. and I am thinkin' we should have our fuckin' heads examined for waiting around here.
that was the plan, we meet here.
then where is everybody? i say the plan became null and void once we found out we got a rat in the house. we am not got the slightest fuckin' idea what happened to mr. blonde or mr. blue. they could both be dead or arrested. they could be sweatin' 'em, down at the station house right now. yeah they do not know the names, but they can sing about this place. i mean, that could be happening right now. as we speak, the cops could be in their cars, drivin' here this minute.
i swear to god I am fuckin' jinxed.
what?
two jobs back, it was a four man job, we discovered one of the team was an undercover cop.
no shit?
thank god, we discovered in time. we hadda forget the whole fuckin' thing. just walked away from it.
so who is the rat this time? mr. blue? mr. blonde? joe? it is joe's show, he set this whole thing up. maybe he set it up to set it up.
i do not buy it. me and joe go back a long time. i can tell ya straight up, joe definitely did not have anything to do with this bullshit.
oh, you and joe go back a long time. i known joe since i was a kid. but me saying joe definitely could not have done it is ridiculous. i can say i definitely did not do it, cause i know what i did or did not do. but i can not definitely say that about anybody else, 'cause i do not definitely know. for all i know, you are the rat.
for all i know, you are the rat.
now you are using your head. for all we know, he is the rat.
that kid in there is dying from a fuckin' bullet that i saw him take. so do not be calling him a rat.
look, asshole, I am right! somebody is a fuckin' rat. how many times do i hafta say it before it sinks in your skull?
i got to take a squirt, where is the commode in this dungeon?
go down the hall, turn left, up those stairs, then turn right.
what is she doin' now?
she hooked up with fed mcgar, they have done a couple a jobs together. good little thief. so, explain the telegram.
five-man job. bustin' in and bustin' out of a diamond wholesaler's.
can you move the ice afterwards? i do not know nobody who can move ice.
not a problem, got guys waitin' for it. but what happened to marsellus spivey? did not he always move your ice?
he is doin' twenty years in susanville.
what for?
bad luck. what is the exposure like?
two minutes, tops. it is a tough two minutes. it is daylight, during business hours, dealing with a crowd. but you will have the guys to deal with the crowd.
how many employees?
around twenty. security pretty lax. they almost always just deal in boxes. rough uncut stones they get from the syndicate. on a certain day this wholesaler's gettin' a big shipment of polished stones from israel. they are like a way station. they are going to get picked up the next day and sent to vermont.
no, they are not.
what is the cut, poppa?
juicy, junior, real juicy.
so, is he dead or what?
he am not dead.
so what is it?
i think he is just passed out.
he scared the fuckin' shit outta me. i thought he was dead fer sure.
he will be dead fer sure, if we do not get him to a hospital.
we can not take him to a hospital.
without medical attention, this man will not live through the night. that bullet in his belly is my fault. now while that might not mean jack shit to you, it means a helluva lot to me. and I am not going to just sit around and watch him die.
well, first things first, staying here's goofy. we got to book up.
so what do you suggest, we go to a hotel? we got a guy who is shot in the belly, he can not walk, he bleeds like a stuck pig, and when he is awake, he screams in pain.
you gotta idea, spit it out.
joe could help him. if we can get in touch with joe, joe could get him to a doctor, joe could get a doctor to come and see him.
assuming we can trust joe, how we going to get in touch with him? he is supposed to be here, but he ain't, which is making me nervous about being here. even if joe is on the up and up, he is probably not going to be that happy with us. joe planned a robbery, but he is got a blood bath on his hands now. dead cops, dead robbers, dead civilians... jesus christ! i tend to doubt he is going to have a lot of sympathy for our plight. if i was him, I would try and put as much distance between me and this mess an humanly possible.
before you got here, mr. orange was askin' me to take him to a hospital. now i do not like turning him over to the cops, but if we don't, he is dead. he begged me to do it. i told him to hold off till joe got here.
well joe am not gettin' here. we are on our own. now, i do not know a goddamn body who can help him, so if you know somebody, call 'em.
i do not know anybody.
well, i guess we drop him off at the hospital. since he do not know nothin' about us, i say it is his decision.
well, he knows a little about me.
you did not tell him your name, did ya?
i told him my first name, and where I am from.
why!
i told him where i was from a few days ago. it was just a casual conversation.
and what was tellin him your name when you were not supposed to?
he asked.
we had just gotten away from the cops. he just got shot. it was my fuckin' fault he got shot. he is a fuckin' bloody mess - he is screaming. i swear to god, i thought we was going to die right then and there. I am tryin' to comfort him, telling him not to worry, he is going to be okay, I am going to take care of him. and he asked me what my name was. i mean, the man was dyin' in my arms. what the fuck was i supposed to tell him, "sorry, i can not give out that information, it is against the rules. i do not trust you enough."? maybe i shoulda, but i couldn't.
oh, i do not doubt is was quite beautiful -
do not fuckin' patronize me.
one question: do they have a sheet on you, where you told him you are from?
of course.
well that is that, then. i mean, i was worried about mug shot possibilities already. but now he knows:  what you look like,  what your first name is,  where you are from and  what your specialty is. they am not going to hafta show him a helluva lot of pictures for him to pick you out. that is it right, you did not tell him anything else that could narrow down the selection?
if i have to tell you again to back off, me an you are gonna go round and round.
we am not taking him to a hospital.
if we don't, he will die.
and I am very sad about that. but some fellas are lucky, and some ain't.
that fuckin did it!
you wanna shoot me, you little piece of shit? take a shot!
fuck you, white! i did not create this situation, I am just dealin' with it. you are acting like a first- year fuckin' thief. I am actin like a professional. they get him, they can get you, they get you, they get closer to me, and that can not happen. and you, you motherfucker, are looking at me like it is my fault. i did not tell him my name. i did not tell him where i was from. i did not tell him what i knew better than to tell him. fuck, fifteen minutes ago, you almost told me your name. you, buddy, are stuck in a situation you created. so if you wanna throw bad looks somewhere, throw 'em at a mirror.
he got it in the belly. he is still alive, but will not be for long.
enough! you better start talkin' to us, asshole, cause we got shit we need to talk about. we are already freaked out, we need you actin freaky like we need a fuckin' bag on our hip.
so, talk.
we think we got a rat in the house.
is that supposed to be funny?
we do not think this place is safe.
this place just am not secure anymore. we are leaving, and you should go with us.
what is this guy's problem?
what is my problem? yeah, i got to problem. i got to big problem with any trigger-happy madman who almost gets me shot!
what are you talkin' about?
that fuckin' shooting spree in the store.
fuck 'em, they set off the alarm, they deserve what they got.
you almost killed me, asshole! if i had any idea what type of guy you were, i never would have agreed to work with you.
you gonna bark all day, little doggie, or are you gonna bite?
what was that? I am sorry, i did not catch it. would you repeat it?
i said: "are you gonna bark all day, dog, or are you gonna bite."
both of you two assholes knock it the fuck off and calm down!
so you wanna git bit, huh?
cut the bullshit, we am not on a fuckin' playground!  i do not believe this shit, both of you got ten years on me, and I am the only one actin like a professional. you guys act like a bunch of fuckin' niggers. you ever work a job with a bunch of niggers? they are just like you two, always fightin', always sayin' they are going to kill one another.
you said yourself, you thought about takin' him out.
then. that time has passed. right now, mr. blonde is the only one i completely trust. he is too fuckin' homicidal to be workin' with the cops.
you takin' his side?
fuck sides! what we need is a little solidarity here. somebody is stickin' a red hot poker up our asses and we got to find out whose hand's on the handle. now i know I am no piece of shit...  and I am pretty sure you are a good boy...  and I am fuckin positive you are on the level. so let's figure out who is the bad guy.
follow you where?
down to my car.
why?
it is a surprise.
for what, the cops?
nice guy eddie.
you talked to nice guy eddie? why the fuck did not you say that in the first place?
you did not ask.
hardy-fuckin-har. what did he say?
stay put. okay, fellas, take a look at the little surprise i brought you.
how is freedom kid, pretty fuckin' good, am not it?
it is a change.
am not that a sad truth. remy martin?
sure.
take a seat.
who is your parole officer?
a guy named scagnetti. seymour scagnetti.
how is he?
fuckin' asshole, will not let me leave the halfway house.
never ceases to amaze me. fuckin' jungle bunny goes out there, slits some old woman's throat for twenty- five cents. fuckin' nigger gets doris day as a parole officer. but a good fella like you gets stuck with a ball-bustin' prick.
i just want you to know, joe, how much i appreciate your care packages on the inside.
what the hell did you expect me to do? just forget about you?
i just wanted you to know, they meant a lot.
it is the least i could do vic. i wish i coulda done more.  vic. toothpick vic. tell me a story? what are your plans?
well, what i wanna do is go back to work. but i got this scagnetti prick deep up my ass. he will not let me leave the halfway house till i get some piece of shit job. my plans have always been to be part of the team again.
how ya doin', toothpick?
fine, now.
I am sorry man, i shoulda picked you up personally at the pen. this whole week's just been crazy. I have had my head up my ass the entire time.
funny you should mention it. that is what your father and i been talkin' about.
that i should have picked you up?
no. that your head's been up your ass. i walk through the door and joe says "vic, you are back, thank god. finally somebody who knows what the fuck he is doing. vic, vic, vic, eddie, my son, is a fuck up." and i say "well, joe, i coulda told you that." "i'm ruined! he is ruining me! my son, i love him, but he is taking my business and flushing it down the fuckin' toilet! "  I am not tellin' tales out of school. you tell 'im joe. tell 'im yourself.
daddy, did ya see that?
what?
guy got me on the ground, tried to fuck me.
you fuckin' wish.
you tried to fuck me in my father's office, you sick bastard. look, vic, whatever you wanna do in the privacy of your own home, go do it. but do not try to fuck me. i do not think of you that way. i mean, i like you a lot -
eddie, if i was a pirate, i would not throw you to the crew.
no, you would keep me for yourself. four years fuckin' punks in the ass made you appreciate prime rib when you get it.
i might break you, nice guy, but I would make you my dog's bitch. you would be suckin' the dick and going down on a mangy t-bone hound.
now am not that a sad sight, daddy, walks into jail a white man, walks out talkin' like a nigger. it is all that black semen been shootin' up his butt. it is backed up into his brain and comes out of his mouth.
now vic was tellin' me, he is got a parole problem.
really? who is your p.o.?
seymour scagnetti.
scagnetti? oh shit, i hear he is a motherfucker.
he is a motherfucker. he will not let me leave the halfway house till i get some piece of shit job.
you are coming back to work for us, right?
i wanna. but i got to show this asshole i got an honest-to-goodness job before he will let me move out on my own. i can not work for you guys and be worried about gettin' back before ten of the clock curfew.
we can work this out, can not we?
this is not all that bad. we can give you a lot of legitimate jobs. put you on the rotation at long beach as a dock worker.
i do not wanna lift crates.
you do not hafta lift shit. you do not really work there. but as far as the records are concerned, you do. i call up matthews, the foreman, tell him he is got a new guy. you are on the schedule. you got a timecard, it is clocked in and out for you everyday, and you get a pay check at the end of the week. and ya know dock workers do not do too bad. so you can move into a halfway decent place without scagnetti thinkin "what the fuck." and if scagnetti ever wants to make a surprise visit, you are gone that day. that day we sent you to tustin. we got to bunch of shit you needed to unload there. you are at the taft airstrip pickin' up a bunch of shit and bringing it back. part of your job is goin' different places - and we got places all over the place.
did not i tell ya not to worry?  vic was worried.
me and you will drive down to long beach tomorrow. I will introduce you to matthews, tell him what is going on.
that is great, guy, thanks a bunch.  when do you think you will need me for real work?
well, it is kinda a strange time right now. things are kinda -
nuts. we got a big meeting in vegas coming up. and we are kinda just gettin ready for that right now.
let nice guy set you up at long beach. give ya some cash, get that scagnetti fuck off your back, and we will be talking to ya.
daddy, i got an idea. now just hear it out. i know you do not like to use any of the boys on these jobs, but technically, vic am not one of the boys. he is been gone for four years. he am not on no one's list. ya know he can handle himself, ya know you can trust him.
holy shit, this guy's all fucked up!
no shit, he is going to fuckin' die on us if we do not get him taken care of.
we were set up, the cops were waiting for us.
what? nobody set anybody up.
the cops were there waitin' for us!
bullshit.
hey, fuck you man, you were not there, we were. and I am tellin' ya, the cops had that store staked out.
okay, mr. detective, who did it?
what the fuck d'you think we have been askin' each other?
and what are your answers? was it me? you think i set you up?
i do not know, but somebody did.
nobody did. you assholes turn the jewelry store into a wild west show, and you wonder why cops show up.
i told ya he would be pissed.
what are you gonna do about him?
jesus christ, give me a fuckin' chance to breathe. i got a few questions of my own, ya know.
you am not dying, he is.
I will call somebody.
who?
a snake charmer, what the fuck d'you think. I will call a doctor, take care of him, fix 'm right up. no, where is mr. brown and mr. blue?
brown's dead, we do not know about blue.
nobody saw what happened to mr. blue?
i take it this is the bastard you told me about.  why the hell are you beating on him?
so he will tell us who the fuck set us up.
would you stop it with that shit! you beat on this prick enough, he will tell ya he started the chicago fire. that do not necessarily make it so. okay, first things fucking last, where is the shit? please tell me somebody brought something with them.
i got a bag. i stashed it till i could be sure this place was not a police station.
well, let's go get it. we also got to get rid of all those cars. it looks like sam's hot car lot outside.  you stay here and babysit orange and the cop.  you two take a car each, I will follow ya. you ditch it, I will pick you up, then we will pick up the stones. and while I am following you, I will arrange for some sort of a doctor for our friend.
because this guy's a fucking psycho. and if you think joe's pissed at us, that am not nothing compared to how pissed off i am at him, for puttin' me in the same room as this bastard.
you see what i been puttin' up with? as soon as i walk through the door I am hit with this shit. i tell 'm what you told me about us stayin' put and mr. white whips out his gun, sticks it in my face, and starts screaming "you motherfucker, I am going to blow you away, blah, blah, blah."
he is the reason the place turned into a shooting gallery.  what are you, a silent partner? fuckin' tell him.
he seems all right now, but he went crazy in the store.
this is what he was doin'.
i told 'em not to touch the alarm. they touched it. i blew 'em full of holes. if they had not done what i told 'em not it, they would still be alive.
that is your excuse for going on a kill crazy rampage?
i do not like alarms.
what does it matter who stays with the cop? we am not lettin' him go. not after he is seen everybody. you should have never took him outta your trunk in the first place.
we were trying to find out what he knew about the set up.
there is no fuckin' set up!  look, this is the news. blondie, you stay here and take care of them two. white and pink come with me, 'cuz if joe gets here and sees all those fucking cars parked out front, he is going to be as mad at me as he is at you.
alone at last.
now where were we?
i told you i do not know anything about any fucking set up. I have only been on the force eight months, nobody tells me anything! i do not know anything! you can torture me if you want -
thanks, do not mind if i do.
your boss even said there was not a set up.
first off, i do not have a boss. are you clear about that?
i asked you a question. are you clear about that?
yes.
now I am not going to bullshit you. i do not really care about what you know or do not know. I am going to torture you for awhile regardless. not to get information, but because torturing a cop amuses me. there is nothing you can say, I have heard it all before. there is nothing you can do. except pray for a quick death, which you am not going to get.
i know.
you do?
your name's freddy something.
freddy newendyke.
frankie ferchetti introduced us once, about five months ago.
shit. i do not remember that at all.
i do.  how do i look?
that fucking bastard! that fucking sick fucking bastard!
marvin, i need you to hold on. there is officers positioned and waiting to move in a block away.
what the fuck are they waiting for? that motherfucker cut off my ear! he slashed my face! I am deformed!
and I am dying. they do not know that. all they know is they are not to make a move until joe cabot shows up. i was sent undercover to get cabot. you heard 'em, they said he is on his way. do not pussy out on me now, marvin. we are just going to sit here and bleed until joe cabot sticks his fuckin' head through that door.
say "hello" to a motherfucker who is inside. cabot's doing a job and take a big fat guess who he wants on the team?
this better not be some freddy joke.
nice guy. when we got to the bar...
...what bar?
the boots and socks in gardena. when we got there, i met joe and a guy named mr. white. it is a phony name. my name's mr. orange.
you ever seen this motherfucker before?
who, mr. white?
yeah.
no, he am not familiar. he am not one of cabot's soldiers either. he is got to be from outta town. but joe knows him real well.
how can you tell?
the way they talk to each other. you can tell they are buddies.
did the two of you talk?
me and mr. white?
yeah.
a little.
what about?
the brewers.
the milwaukee brewers?
yeah. they had just won the night before, and he made a killing off 'em.
well, if this crook's a brewers fan, his ass has got to be from wisconsin. and I will bet you everything from a diddle-eyed joe to a damned-if-i- know, that in milwaukee they got a sheet on this mr. white motherfucker's ass. i want you to go through the mugs of guys from old milwaukee with a history of armed robbery, and put a name to that face.
what kinds questions did cabot ask?
where i was from, who i knew, how i knew nice guy, had i done time, shit like that.
didja use the commode story?
fuckin' a. i tell it real good, too.
what is this?
it is a scene. memorize it.
what?
a undercover cop has got to be marlon brando. to do this job you got to be a great actor. you got to be naturalistic. you got to be naturalistic as hell. if you am not a great actor you are a bad actor, and bad acting is bullshit in this job.
but what is this?
it is a amusing anecdote about a drug deal.
what?
something funny that happened to you while you were doing a job.
i gotta memorize all this shit?
it is like a joke. you remember what is important, and the rest you make your own. the only way to make it your own is to keep sayin' it, and sayin' it, and sayin' it, and sayin' it, and sayin' it.
i can do that.
the things you got to remember are the details. it is the details that sell your story. now this story takes place in this men's room. so you got to know the details about this men's room. you got to know they got a blower instead of a towel to dry your hands. you got to know the stalls am not got no doors. you got to know whether they got liquid or powdered soap, whether they got hot water or not, 'cause if you do your job when you tell your story, everybody should believe it. and if you tell your story to somebody who is actually taken a piss in this men's room, and you get one detail they remember right, they will swear by you.
...her brother usually goes with her, but he is in county unexpectedly.
what for?
traffic tickets gone to warrant. they stopped him for something, found the warrants on 'im, took 'im to jail. she does not want to walk around alone with all that weed. well, i do not wanna do this, i have a bad feeling about it, but she keeps askin' me, keeps askin' me, finally i said okay 'cause I am sick of listening to it. well, we are picking this guy up at the train station.
tell me more about cabot.
he is a cool guy. a real nice, real funny, real cool guy.
...hey, i know what I am talkin' about, black women am not the same as white women.
there is a slight difference.
go ahead and laugh, you know what i mean. what a while bitch will put up with, a black bitch will not put up with for a minute. they got a line, and if you cross it, they fuck you up.
i got to go along with mr. pink on this. I have seen it happen.
okay, mr. expert. if this is such a truism, how come every nigger i know treats his woman like a piece of shit?
I will make you a bet that those same damn niggers who were showin' their ass in public, when their bitches get 'em home, they chill the fuck out.
not these guys.
yeah, those guys too.
let me tell you guys a story. in one of daddy's clubs there was this black cocktail waitress named elois.
elois?
yeah, elois. e and lois. we called her lady e.
where was she from, compton?
no. she was from ladora heights.
the black beverly hills. i knew this lady from ladora heights once.  "hi, I am from ladora heights, it is the black beverly hills."
it is not the black beverly hills, it is the black palos verdes. anyway, this chick, elois, was a man-eater- upper. i bet every guy who is ever met her has jacked off to her at least once. you know who she looked like? christie love. 'member that tv show "get christie love"? she was a black female cop. she always used to say "you're under arrest, sugar."
i was in the sixth grade when that show was on. i totally dug it. what the fuck was the name of the chick who played christie love?
pam grier.
no, it was not pam grier, pam grier was the other one. pam grier made the movies. christie love was like a pam grier tv show, without pam grier.
what the fuck was that chick's name? oh this is just great, I am totally fuckin' tortured now.
well, whoever she was, elois looked like her. so one night i walk into the club, and no elois. now the bartender was a wetback, he was a friend of mine, his name was carlos. so i asked him "hey, carlos, where is lady e tonight?" well apparently lady e was married to this real piece of dog shit. i mean a real animal. and apparently he would so things to her.
jesus christ!
you can do some crazy things with it.
i do not know what he did to her, but she got even.
was he all pissed off?
but he is ok. if he was not ok, he would not be here. okay, let me introduce everybody to everybody. but once again, at the risk of being redundant, if i even think i hear somebody telling or referring to somebody by their christian name...  ...you will not want to be you. okay, quickly.  mr. brown, mr. white, mr. blonde, mr. blue, mr. orange, and mr. pink.
why am i mr. pink?
cause you are a faggot, alright?
why can not we pick out our own colors?
i tried that once, it do not work. you get four guys fighting over who is going to be mr. black. since nobody knows anybody else, nobody wants to back down. so forget it, i pick. be thankful you are not mr. yellow.
yeah, mr. pink sounds like mr. pussy. tell you what, let me be mr. purple. that sounds good to me, I am mr. purple.
you are not mr. purple, somebody from another job's mr. purple. you are mr. pink.
who cares what your name is? who cares if you are mr. pink, mr. purple, mr. pussy, mr. piss...
oh that is really easy for you to say, you are mr. white. you got to cool-sounding name. so tell me, mr. white, if you think "mr. pink" is no big deal, you wanna trade?
nobody's trading with anybody! look, this am not a goddamn fuckin' city counsel meeting! listen up mr. pink. we got two ways here, my way or the highway. and you can go down either of 'em. so what is it going to be, mr. pink?
jesus christ, joe. fuckin' forget it. this is beneath me. I am mr. pink, let's move on.
let's go over it. where are you?
i stand outside and guard the door. i do not let anybody come in or go out.
mr. brown?
mr. brown stays in the car. he is parked across the street till i give him the signal, then he pulls up in front of the store.
mr. blonde and mr. blue?
crowd control. they handle customers and employees in the display area.
myself and mr. pink?
you two take the manager in the back and make him give you the diamonds. we are there for those stones, period. since no display cases are being fucked with, no alarms should go off. we are out of there in two minutes, not one second longer. what if the manager will not give up the diamonds?
when you are dealing with a store like this, they are insured up the ass. they are not supposed to give you and resistance whatsoever. if you get a customer or an employee who thinks he is charles bronson, take the butt of your gun and smash their nose in. drops 'em right to the floor. everyone jumps, he falls down, screaming, blood squirts out his nose. freaks everybody out. nobody says fuckin' shit after that. you might get some bitch talk shit to ya. but give her a look, like you are going to smash her in the face next. watch her shut the fuck up. now if it is a manager, that is a different story. the managers know better than to fuck around. so if one's givin' you static, he probably thinks he is a real cowboy. so what you got to do is break that son-of-a-bitch in two. if you wanna know something and he will not tell you, cut off one of his fingers. the little one. then you tell 'im his thumb's next. after that he will tell ya if he wears ladies underwear. I am hungry, let's get a taco.
I am sorry.
what? snap out of it!
just hold on buddy boy.
I am sorry. i can not believe she killed me...
what happened?
blonde went crazy. he slashed the cop's face, cut off his ear and was going to burn him alive.
uhuh, uhuh, what is i tell ya? that sick piece of shit was a stone cold psycho.
you could have asked the cop, if you did not just kill him. he talked about what he was going to do when he was slicing him up.
i do not buy it. it does not make sense.
it makes perfect fuckin' sense to me. eddie, you did not see how he acted during the job, we did.
he is right about the ear, it is hacked off.
let me say this out loud, just to get it straight in my mind. according to you, mr. blonde was going to kill you. then when we came back, kill us, grab the diamonds, and scram. that is your story? I am correct about that, right?
daddy, I am sorry, i do not know what is happening.
that is okay, eddie, i do.
what the fuck are you talking about?
that piece of shit. workin' with the cops.
are not you?
i do not have the slightest fuckin' idea what you are talkin' about.
joe, i do not know what you think you know, but you are wrong.
like hell i am.
joe, trust me on this, you have made a mistake. he is a good kid. i understand you are hot, you are super-fuckin' pissed. we are all real emotional. but you are barking up the wrong tree. i know this man, and he would not do that.
you do not know jack shit. i do. this rotten bastard tipped off the cops and got mr. brown and mr. blue killed.
mr. blue's dead?
dead as dillinger.
the motherfucker killed vic.
how do you know all this?
he was the only one i was not a hundred percent on. i should have my fucking head examined for goin' forward when i was not a hundred percent. but he seemed like a good kid, and i was impatient and greedy and all the things that fuck you up.
that is your proof?
you do not need proof when you got instinct. i ignored it before, but not no more.
joe, you are making a terrible mistake i can not let you make.
stop pointing your fuckin' gun at daddy!
do not worry, eddie. me and larry have been friends a long time, he am not going to shoot. we like each other too much.
joe, if you kill that man, you die next. repeat, if you kill that man, you die next!
larry, I am going to kill him.
goddamn you, joe, do not make me do this!
larry, I am askin' you to trust me on this.
do not ask me that.
I am not askin', I am betting.
