i do not know what you expected with joseph- fucking-conrad for chrissake. i mean this is hollywood, pal.
all right! enough! I have heard this from schaefer and rko. I have heard it from everyone--
but you keep coming up with the same elitist crap - - heart of darkness with a million dollar budget?! - - no one wants to see that.
nonsense
what are movies about, orson?
forget it-
what are movies about?
telling stories.
nope.
showing life
who the hell wants to see life?! people are sick to death of life! they want make-believe, pal. fantasy. they want tarzan and jane, not tristan and isolde.
magic
butts on seats. that is what movies are about. you got one job in hollywood -- everyone has the same job, in fact -- putting the butts on the seats. you got to sell 'em popcorn and pepsi- cola. it is all about popcorn and pepsi-cola.
not for me.
then you better get ready to be the youngest never- was in hollywood history.
that is better than being the oldest has-been in hollywood history.
you are a laugh-riot, kid.
so, we have got to come up with our movie. our biography.
right-
we find the man and then we dissect him-
like a bug.
but with compassion and insight--
christ, we got to go! the old man does not cotton to lateness.
how about howard hughes? we could do hughes
I am not fucking with hughes. that shit-kicker would kill us dead, baby. just like jean harlow
howard hughes killed jean harlow?
sure. dropped her out of his lockheed over utah
and we would hear them scuttling around at night with their little red eyes and little yellow t-t- teeth and I am just imagining plague lice jumpin' all over the damn place so we set t-t-traps everywhere. and every morning we would find the t-t-traps sprung but no mice!
houdini mice.
sigmund freud?
kid, you just got your ass kicked on joseph conrad and now you are going to go to schaefer and tell him you wanna do the id and the superego? stop being so goddamn smart.
manolete?!
who the hell's manolete?
the great spanish bullfighter
i do not wanna write about no spic.
no, it is perfect! when in doubt, put on a cape! false noses and faux beards and flowing capes have been the life-blood of the actor's craft since the days of lrving and booth.  imagine me in a glittering suit of lights on the dusky andalusian plains--
ever met walter winchell?
no, when i was but a tender lad--
last week would this be?
who are you, sir?
my name is orson welles
the actor
and director.
i see. and you are in california for what reason?
to make pictures.
well, i wish you luck. it is a treacherous business.
so I have been told.
in hollywood the fiercest bulls are the most brutally killed.
I will remember that.
the man does not allow drinking or cigars? this is monstrous.
the old man has his own way of doing things
he is nothing but a hypocrite. he preaches morality every day in his sordid little papers for everyone else in the world but he lives openly with his mistress.
look at those hands. those are the hands of an artist. a modern caravaggio.
no, baby, those are the hands of a killer
god, these parties are the worst
you need to get outta here, rapunzel
that is why he has the parties, he says it is like bringing the world to me.
why do not you come down to la? stay with us for a while.
with about twenty of his spies on my tail. no thanks.
it is not so bad here. after all, what girl does not want to live in a castle?
mr. welles certainly is a caution
yeah, orson's a real piece of work. but deep down, he is a good kid. real deep down.
and attractive in a hammy sort of way.
mm.
listen, you come down and stay with us for a few days. just tell the old man that--
i can not
sure you can, just--
he needs me here.
"in xanadu did kubla khan a stately pleasure dome decree. . . "how big is it, all told? the estate?
the whole joint is half the size of rhode island.
jesus
yeah, it is the place god would have built, if he would had the money.
so you ever gonna do a picture?
not you too
it is going to be fine, orson. you are going to do great.
i wonder sometimes.
you are just scared.
am i?
of being found out. of not being a genius
oh, but have not you heard? I am the boy wonder. I have been a genius since the moment i was born.
we have known each other too long, orson. sling the bullshit elsewhere.
carole, you wound me! as if i could hope to pacify you with evasions of--
do not insult me with your cute press quotes save it for louella.
goddamn it. i gotta have some kinda life!
there is no call for that language-
there certainly is i there certainly is! aw, to hell with you!
that poor woman.
she knew what she was signing on for after all, she took the money.
mank! you scoundrel! what took you so long?!
orson, please ... it is too bright
here you are, up with the birds for once, you vampire!
okay, boy wonder, what?
listen ... I have got it! it came to me like a thief in the night! pure inspiration! total magnificence!
oh for christ's sake-
i know who we are going to get i the great american biography! a journey into the soul of the beast.
this better be good
image a man that has shaped his time. a titanic figure of limitless influence. think about empire. a man with an empire at his feet. a man, like a baron, living in a palace, a glorious palace on a hill, and controlling the permutations of everyone beneath him. feudal.
oh christ...
image the possibilities as this man controls the public perception of the nation through his--
oh christ
yes.
please do not say this.
mank-
do not whisper it. do not even think it
how long have we spent casting our minds about the world when the answer to our prayers was right here under our noses -- every single day in the newspapers and on the radio -- waiting for us in that ridiculous castle! waiting for--!
orson. stop. just stop
now remember he is a public figure who sought out that publicity so legally he can not stop us from--
listen to you. you child! men like him do not bother with things like legality. they do not have to. you know why, boy-o?   power.   power like you could not even begin to imagine.
howard hughes, he would just kill us. hearst he would kill us and fuck everything we ever loved.
we are doing hearst.
you may think you know what you are talking about, kid, but believe me, you don't. you are talking about going into a battle you can never win on a battlefield so far above things like movies and hollywood that hearst will not even have to glance down when he crushes you. when he flicks you away with one finger. I am talking about money and influence and evil beyond your capacity to imagine hell.
so speaks the court jester.
fuck you
i expected more from you.
sorry to disappoint.
how does it feel, mank? going up to the palace and making all the lords and ladies laugh as you tell your little stories and beg for crumbs at the table? how does it feel being the ugly little monkey they keep to amuse themselves--?!
i remember a man who wrote i he was a brilliant writer who dazzled me time and time again with his wit and insight--
do not do this
where did he go? he has not had a screen credit in four years--
do not do this
--because he has been so furiously busy wasting himself. amusing his keepers. because he is a sycophant! because he has been thrown out of every studio in hollywood and no one will hire him because he is a drunk- -!
let me out.
listen to me-
fuck you--
i am giving you the last chance you will ever have to be yourself again!
i do not have it anymore?!
when i was a kid i wanted to scorch the world too - - i had all kinda dreams about making great pictures and telling great stories. but all that is finished for me--
it does not have to be
and yeah, sure, hearst's a great subject. been keeping notes on him for years for my ...  great american novel. but i can not do it anymore. no studio's going to hire me and i - -
I will hire you  -- right now-
i can not do it. okay?! i drink too much -- i drink all the fucking time and i do not have it anymore. all that is over for me--
not unless i. tell you it is
he will destroy us.
then let him. what have we got to lose, you and i?
so, who is he? we have to know him.
everyone sees someone different. that is what we show.
how?
like a jewel. turn it in the light and a different facet is illuminated.
the key -- the key -- the clue -- what does this man recall on his death bed? okay, mank, you are dying. what is the last image that comes to you? right now.
this girl on a dock. white dress. never said a word to her.
why her?
she was . . . innocent
all men love. but men like hearst -- they do not bother with convention because--
they do not have to.
he loves in his own way. on his conditions. because those are the only conditions he has ever known.
hearst looks down at the world at his feet everything has always been beneath him.
and what does he see?
the people. when they pay him homage, he adores them. but when they have the ... audacity to question him. to doubt him. to embarrass him. then he despises them.
and when he looks up? what does he dream about?
tome it is a question of truth and illusion. do not you get tired of the errant falsity in motion pictures?
huh?
what we are going to do is shoot life -- in all it is joyous complexity.
now, orson, you know I am just dyin' to see your picture and i know it is going to be boffo, but you are writing about a publisher, right?
we are using-
you are not doin' hearst, are you?
good god no! the character is a delicious amalgamation of various press barons--
a delicious amalgamation, is it?
that is right. a symphony of those: vaunted and valued tellers-of-truth. those heroic minutemen standing sentry on our liberties--
orson, hold on. look into my eyes. tell me you are not doing hearst.
i am not doing hearst.
it is 350 pages long.
yeah, but the margins are real wide.
it is 350 pages of ... absolute inspiration!
it is good, huh?
good?! good?! words fail you at last! it is terrific! now I will have to do some shaping, of course, and some of the scenes are not exactly . . . exactly . . .
what?
short enough. but this is a grand start and i think we need to change the name.
the title?
no, american is a blessed title directly sent from god's soul to your mind. we shall never change that! i mean the name of the publisher. charles foster craig does not have the knives-out poetry i need. i was thinking about "kane" -- you like that?
cain -- like the bible guy?
k-a-n-e. one strong syllable. kane i
craig is one syllable
but it is not a great syllable
i --um-- i do not know if i should. i am not been drinking since i started on this--
to my invaluable comrade drink up!
jesus christ --
you can not do this tome -- this was our story, remember? -- you and me and goddamn everyone else - - remember that?!
this is supposed ta be siam or some such. some kinda lousy b-b-balinese temple. this look like a temple to you? i can not see it myself--
darling, i talked to millicent.
there. that is right.
she is a catholic. she says it would put her soul in peril. divorce is a very serious sin, apparently.
nuts. she only cares about the money. she thinks I will make you cut her out of the w-w-w-w...  will.
it is an awful title, of course, but i can not think of anything better. someone came up with a sea of upturned faces -- which has a nice, grand ring to it -- and i thought of john citizen, usa but that strikes me as a bit warner brothers. or, god forbid, capraesque. i suppose american will do for now but--
citizen kane
pardon?
citizen kane there is your title.
a "z" and a "k" in the title. that would draw the eye. for the poster. i like that the prisoner of zenda had a "z" and a "p" and that worked--
now look, orson, let's not get ahead of ourselves. the budget projections on this--
i know, i know! but what more can you expect of me?! i have pared this story down to the marrow to save money but to cut more would be to--!
listen, get off your horse with me. you know I have stuck by you since the beginning of time it seems like, while the stockholders in new york were ready to cut and run and everyone else in hollywood was set to toss me in a rubber room. but your contract stipulates a max budget of 500 thousand. this one's going to come in at 750 thousand. what do we do about that?
now do not have a fit -- but i want you to think again about doing war of the worlds-
jesus
do war of the worlds as a feature and everyone's happy. you make some money and new york's happy and you have a track record and then we will move on to kane.
please do not ask me to do this.
it is the safe bet, orson. there is nothing wrong with that.
for the title
ah, it is a grand title.
"rosebud? I will tell you about rosebud.
again.
"rosebud? I will tell you about rosebud.
again.
"rosebud? I will tell you about rosebud.
again
"rosebud? I will tell you about rosebud."
again
"rosebud? I will tell you about rosebud
again
orson, you wanna take five?
five...? yes. no. we are done today
and I am looking at them -- and they are all looking at me and i do not know who should pour the tea. '
uh huh.
i just can not . . see it anymore
i want you back
fuck you.  you wanted me out. I am out.
I am sorry.
i do not care.
did i ever tell you about my father?
i do not give a shit about-
he was a drunk. and he was my father and i was ashamed of him.
it is just not low enough. this is the scene. we have to look up at these two man as pillars soaring to the sky. as towering virtues in combat--
spare me the aria, i know what you want--
i need my shoes in total focus right here and also joe back there--!
i know what you want but it can not be done!
take apart the fucking camera rig -- we could get a few more inches down and then tilt up--
orson -- we can not get the fucking camera any fucking lower so find another fucking shot!
"well, if you got drunk to talk to me about miss alexander, do not bother. I am not interested. I have set back the sacred cause of reform, is that it? all right, if that is the way they want it, the people have made their choice. it is obvious the people prefer jim gettys to me."
"you talk about the people as if you owned them. as though they belonged to you. as long as i can remember, you have talked about--"  orson, i am so goddamn tired--
keep filming.
i can not remember the lines!
then make them up! you are drunk and you are angry.
this is the chance you have been waiting for, boy. tell that son of a bitch just what you think of him!
we are not all hopped up on benzedrine, orson i some of us humans need sleep!
you are not going to get another chance, boy! look right at the monster and you tell him--
"you do not care about anything except you. you just want to persuade people that you
love them so much that they ought to love you back. only you want love on your own terms. "
"a toast then, jedediah, to love on my own terms. those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his own."
how 'bout a real drink?
we done?
yeah.
this is an abomination there is no music and--
they have all seen a rough cut
the magazines are one thing -- but hedda! why did we have to let her come?!
when hedda says "i'm coming" you mix a lot of martinis and you pray.
schaefer, i gotta see this welles picture
louella, hello, i was just fixing a drink, would you like--?
you drink at 10 am, do you?
no -- no -- i mean--
i wanna see the picture today
that might be a tad difficult because orson is scoring the picture now and he is very particular about the music--
cut the malarkey, buddy. the boss himself wants me to see the picture today.
he personally asked you to?
that is right
hearst?
uh-huh
it is all you. it has the political campaigns and the mining fortune and the war with pulitzer and the castle. and ... marion.
how so?
the jigsaw puzzles and the, urn, career -- the man spending a fortune to make her a star -- only it is opera and not movies. and...
yes?
the drinking.
thank you for your time
thank you, sir. she begins to leave
miss parsons, i have one additional question for you.
sir?
why did we not know about this sooner?
sir?
i pay you a good deal of money to be my eyes and ears in hollywood, do i not? if you cannot provide this simple service you are of no use to me.
sir, i-
please be quiet.
he lied to me
he looked into my face and told me it was not about you.
and how do you feel when you are lied to?
i want blood
good. retain that feeling. let it nourish you from this day forth. it shall nourish us both
and this is the evening edition. notice anything?
the ad..
louis
randolph!
hope you do not mind my popping in--
quite. and this is why i came to visit. have you heard about this citizen kane picture?
over at rko?
mm. not a very good picture i am told.
uh-hub.
apparently it details the exploits of a publisher like myself. entirely too much like myself. do you follow so far?
yeah
and maybe we could get mr. warner and mr. goldwyn and mr. cohn and mr. selznick to play as well.
you know that can not happen.
oh, why is that?
why is that, louis?
bel air is restricted.
see what you can do about this citizen kane picture, will not you?
yeah
that is right, fella, no hearst paper will run an rko ad until you agree that citizen kane will never see the light of day.
louella, please, be reasonable, i understand you have problems with orson's picture but maybe we can work something out--
nix, sweetie. you shelve it
oh for god's sake, louella-
and mr. hearst has authorized me to tell you that you are looking at the most beautiful lawsuit in history if you release this picture. he will bleed your little studio dry and you can all go on back to new york and do shakespeare with the boy wonder.
can i talk to hearst?
you are talking to him.
the journal was pretty harsh to roosevelt today.
you oughta lay off him -- he is the p-p-president, after all.
he is a bolshevik. he will have us at war by the end of the year. i think I am going to run that wheelchair picture.
do not
how bad is it?
nothing for you to worry about, darling
pops
the s.e.c. has turned down my request for relief on the debts.
how much?
it is not really--
how much?
we are 125 million dollars in debt?
yes.
how does one get 125 million dollars in debt?
one . . . buys things.
oh, no--
yes!
he is christ?
I am christ
you want to do the life of jesus?
yes! vibrant and modern and stark like a picasso sketch drawn to flashes of lightning i we shoot the whole thing in the gallant american west--
hey, kid. gregg.
mank, sit down. you missed the opening of the new picture but I will go back--
no, you gotta hear this-
no, but i can imagine. what am i today? a "puny upstart" or a "spoiled dilettante" -- no, she would not know how to spell that
"and how is the country to feel when this industry continues to employ bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees instead of real americans? does not hollywood know there is a depression on? do not real americans deserve work?"
well, at least she is off kane today
no she is not. do not you get it, ya lunk? she is using code language to the studio bosses. "bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees" -- who the hell do you think she is talking about?
hedy lamarr?
jews. she is talking about jews.
who owns this town? who runs every goddamn studio? the tribe, baby. these fuckers hear the word "jew" and they start sweating. like ester williams' pool they start sweating.
so they are jews. . .
this is just the first shot. maestro. sooner or later she is going to use the word. and all those boys know that there is only one thing this country hates more than the coloreds and that is the jews.
christ.
me, I am proud to be a jew, i got no problem. you do not like it, fuck you. but with these guys it is like a dirty word. all they wanna be is good red- white-and-blue americans, and the way they see it you can not be a good american and a jew. so sam goldfish becomes sam goldwyn and david selznick becomes david 0. selznick -- like anyone's going to think he is irish for fuck's sake--
what does this have to do with--?
believe you me, they are going to do anything -- and i mean absolutely anything -- to stop that word from gettin' out.
what?! are they going to kill me? is that what they are going to do?!
if he had known about kane before you made it, you would be dead already.
it is too late. the movie's made
they will not let it out. not hearst. not the other studio heads--
you wrote the damn thing, mank are not you going to fight for it?!
i told you this was going to happen! i told you he was going to come after us! so we took the chance anyway and we lost. that is how it goes, okay? i got my check, kid, and so did you -- and that is what it is all about -- so fuck it and move on.
well -- he got us, did not he? she stands and goes quickly to pour a drink. a forced laugh
nailed us, hub? the crazy old man and his whore.
marion--
bought and p-p-paid for. just like one of his goddamn statues. well at least in the movie he married her!
this picture--
i am not that woman.
then you explain it to me?!
there is nothing to explain
a million dollars a year on art and st-st-statues and there is nothing to explain?!
i will not defend my life to you--
I am not asking you to defend anything. but we are in a pickle and we got to talk about it.
we are in no "pickle" -- as you would euphemistically have it.
you gotta wake up now. pops.
there is nothing to discuss-
you do not have any money left, okay?! that is the truth. i do not wanna say it, nobody else will say it, but it is the truth. you spent it all. you can not buy the tribune in chicago -- you can not buy ^ g-g- goddamn thing. now you better face up to it--
you are being typically theatrical, marion. i need the tribune to--
you do not need it! that is the problem you always think you need everything--
that -- did you need that? how much did that cost?
it is 12th century. from deauville -- in france.
i know where deauville is for c-c-christ's sake.
you need not use that language with me
did you need it? did you need any of it?
i wanted it
there is a different between want and
not for me.
but why? just so you can show it all off -- just so everyone can see what a b-b-big man you are?!
that is right. you have captured me exactly. goodnight.
you will not walk out on me
you are repellant when you drink.
tough shit. we need to t-t-talk about this--
you are slovenly and unattractive and i will not  t-t-t-tolerate it.
fuck you, mr. kane.
i will not have this in my home.
i just want to understand--
no, you don't. you want to condemn me, like everyone else. you want to point to the pathetic, old man grown lunatic with his spending -- trapped in his ridiculous
castle -- still fighting old battles he will never win with pulitzer and roosevelt and hollywood--
i do not want you to--
there is nothing to understand but this:   i am a man who could have been great, but was not.
when i met him i was just 20. and he was 55. i saw the gold ring and just grabbed on. and he was going to make me a star.
and he did.
i did my best but, well, you know me
sure
thing that bothers me now, though, looking back is that i really think i could have been something ... special.
thinking like that is only gonna drive you nuts you were a great star and you had a good run. that oughta be enough.
yeah. but all of a sudden it is not
you know this citizen kane picture? about pops and everything?
uh-huh
the character that is supposed to be me, susan alexander--
marion, everyone knows you are not like that--
but i am that is the killer, honey.
may i help you?
i, um, need an estimate on some jewelry i might wish to sell. but d-d-discretion is very important to me b-b-because i do not want anyone t-t-to, um, know that--
excuse me, i hope this is not rude, but are not you marion davies?
yes.
well, this is a great pleasure. miss davies! i just saw that enchantment is playing at a the tivoli, the revival house in santa monica. that was a fine picture!
thank you-
not one of them today has what you had, miss davies. not one of them.
thank you -- b-b-but I would really like t-t-to--
of course, of course. how can we be of service?
as i said i have some j-j-j-j-  that i might wish t-t-to sell and i wanted an estimate--
surely my pleasure, miss davies..
what do you want me to do, orson? radio city will not premiere the picture. louella threatened them with some bullshit about
then find another theater
you do not think I have tried? no one is willing to open the picture
then we will open it in detroit or dallas or kalamazoo for god's sake! we will show it in goddamn circus tents and--!
listen to me. the press ban is killing us and the distributors will not book it. and meantime I am dealing with the stockholders in new york who are scared shitless -- and I am this far from getting fired myself -- and you do not have a friend in the world but me right now. so you have got to trust that I will do what i can to--
"do what you can"?! that is not good enough i
well it' s all you have got !
you are with them, are not you? you are going to bury my movie. they bought you!
for christ's sake, shut up--
why do not you just have the guts to admit it
how dare you talk to me like that! do you think I am like all the rest of those pirates?! like mayer and warner? is that what you think--?!
it is just that my movie is so-
"your movie" -- i am so sick of that! it is your movie -- but it is his life! did you ever think about that?! did you ever think about that old man and marion having to watch as you tore them apart?!
do you every think for one second that you might have some responsibility for what you are doing?! for cutting and slashing everything in your way so you can have your goddamn movie?!
that soulless monster gets no tears from me.
who the fuck are you trying to kid? you are that soulless monster.
he truly does not care if he ever works again.
yeah, am not it swell?
this isn' t some kinda fucking game! you know how many people rko employs?! you know how many people depend on what we do for a living?!
i really think you are
you wanna commit suicide, fine! you got some death- wish, fine! but you will not drag this company down with you!
it was a -joke, george
it came.
800,000 dollars fully covers the production budget and a little more. hell, george, you even make a profit on the deal.
very generous
and we gotta be clear here. i need the negative and every existing print.
to do what?
that is for me to decide.
you are going to destroy it
no, maybe put it on the shelf until the old man kicks it.
you are lying to me.
we already made the same offer to the stockholders.
you talked to new york?
yes
you talked to mr. swanbeck?
yes
get out
you are bettin' on an inside straight this time. you will never pull it off.
get out.
is that from one of the gospels?
kinda.
you are not still mad at me, i hope
no, we are jake. but listen-
look, not a single scene shot in the studio! we have found natural locations for the whole story--
hold on a sec. i got news. we finally found somewhere to premiere kane but--
i told you! where? grauman's? el capitan? or did radio city come crawling back?
the palace in new york. but orson there is something else.
i think you better sit down
i do not want to sit
they came to me with an offer. 800,000 for the negative and all the prints.
and they went to the stockholders in new york.
oh god.
i been talking to swanbeck in new york and... orson, i think they are going to take it a long pause as welles looks at schaefer
you stupid, little man! how could you have let this happen?! i gave you my soul and now you are going to sell it!?
this am not george's doing--!
i wonder. do you have any idea what you have done?
do you?
intimately. for every sin you have placed on my head i could give you a hundred others. i have been swimming in blood my entire life. but i retain a belief, perhaps you will think it old fashioned, undoubtedly you will, but i believe that private lives should not be public property.
elegant words, sir, when you have made your name and your fortune on slander and innuendo and gossip. in your papers you taught the world how to look under every rock. i learned at the knee of the master.
so where does that leave us, mr. welles? what kind of sad future are we two making? a future where men will do anything to sell their newspapers and their movies? a future where no price is too high for fame and power? when we will all scratch each other to pieces just to be heard?
it is my birthday this week. I will be 26.
happy birthday.
monstro! ran into walter winchell outside he wants to play herod in the picture. hiya, george.
herman.
so am not this just the bee's knees? the high muckey-mucks dolled up all aztec-like for the human sacrifice.
you gonna watch?
hell, i know how it ends.  hey, rosebud's the sled!
mank!
face it, orson, they are going to hate it. i told you, not enough closeups and too many scenes with a bunch of new york actors.
oh god. . .
relax, george. it is going to go great. trust me. have i ever lied to you?
you know something, orson, you have not done anything but lie to me from the moment we met. but, ya know, I would do it again in a second.
it was fun, was not it?
it was the best, kid
so, on to the life of christ!
without me. I am afraid. i got the axe this morning.
shit
george...
what have i done?
aw, cheer up, george'll probably be running fox by the morning. let's get a drink.
you know, all this nightmare we went through with hearst. the whole thing... and in the end, probably no one will ever remember the picture anyway.
yeah, you are probably right.
