do not hit the face! not the face!!
mr. gazzo wants the two hundred now!
honest to god I am broke -- gimme a break.
mr. gazzo says i should get two hundred or break the thumb.
please, i need my hands to work -- christ, do not bust my thumbs.
what is ya name again?
bob.
look, bob, if ya wanna dance, ya got to pay the band -- if ya borrow, ya got to pay the man... me, i am not emotionally involved.
a hundred an' thirty.
that is it, I am broke.
that is it? -- completely?
that is it.
what about for food an' stuff?
you have my food in ya hand.
...the juice is climbin' every week.
i know the juice is climbin' -- i been workin' six months just to pay the damn interest.
ya still light seventy.
waits! -- be smart. ya do not have to break nothin' -- here, take my coat, it is worth fifty-sixty dollars. it is yours.
...how's the turtle food this week?
...fine.
me, I am kinda aggravated.
...i'm sorry.
am not your fault -- here's the problem.
i smack 'em hard on the shell an' they get... what?
...i do not know.
shell-shocked!
startin' with the bad jokes early today, huh.
inventin' jokes am not easy.
how is butkus this mornin'?
am not had time to check 'em.
...what kinda dog is this again?
bullmastiff.
the owner was suppose to pick him up three weeks ago.
we are not responsible for animals left over thirty days -- we board it am not a animal shelter, y'know... adrian, i want you to clean all those cat cages downstairs, they are a mess.
he only had a hundred an' thirty. -- i think he is good for the rest next week, mr. gazzo.
sure, rocky, bob's good for it...
tomorrow collect from del rio -- he is late three weeks. how did you do last night?
...fine.
did ya get the license number?
of wa?
...of the truck that run over your face.
yo rock. did i give you a job this mornin? how come ya did not break this guy's thumb like i asked ya? when ya do not do what ya are told, it makes me look bad, kid.
i figure if i break the thumb this guy gets thrown outta his job and can not pay nothin' no more.
it do not matter. it is my reputation. these guys think they can get off light. it is bad for my reputation -- it is bad for business. see ya killer.
yo, mike -- what is happenin' here?
it am not your locker no more.
whatta ya talkin' about it am not my locker no more?
listen, I am with you -- but ya got to talk to mickey -- i put ya stuff in the bag over there.
you were ready to bite that guy's face.
yeah -- see the fight last night? apollo creed beat that english guy bad.
creed's great.
i do not care what nobody says, this bum creed woulda never made it in the thirties --
hey, how ya feelin', mickey?
...what?
i said, how ya feelin'?
do you see me talkin'? huh?
yeah.
then stand there an' wait till I am done -- creed's good, yeah, he is real fine but i got to boy, y'know big dipper, who is got the stuff it takes to be a champ -- he is mean, quick, an' big -- what more d'ya need? okay, go to work...  hey -- yeah -- whatta ya want?
i was talkin' with ya man, mike. -- hey, how come i been put outta my locker?
dipper needed it.
dipper's a climber -- you are a tomato.
...tomato?
facts is facts. i run a business here -- I am cleanin' house --
how old are ya?
...what?
how old?
come july, twenty-five.
more like thirty.
twenty-five, thirty -- what is the difference? -- it took me two months to learn the combination of that locker.
the legs must be goin'.
yeah, they are goin', -- that is nature... that was my locker for six years.
...did ya fight last night?
yeah --
did ya win?
yeah, kayo.
...who'd ya fight?
spider rice.
rice is a bum.
you think everybody i fight is a bum.
am not they?
ya want the truth -- ya got heart, but ya fight like an ape -- the only thing special about you is ya never got ya nose broke -- keep ya nose pretty -- what is left of ya brain an' retire.
listen, I am going to take a steam -- did good last night -- shoulda seen it.
hey, ever think about retirin'?
...no.
think about it.
yeah, sure.
hey, how is my buddy doin'?  -- nice dog -- well, I will see ya later.
...goodnight, rocky.
yo, paulie.
yo, rocky -- look at this mirror. I would like to kill the friggin' moron who broke this mirror.
yo, paulie.
what?
your sister's givin' me the shoulder.
forget her. you could do better than my sister.
every mornin', every night i pass by -- i smile. i say jokes. nothin'. she looks at me.
looks, huh?
yeah, like i was a plate of leftovers -- somethin' wrong with my face -- whatta i need, a caddy to connect with ya sister?
my sister's a friggin' loser.
hey --
sometimes she gets me so crazy, I would like to split her head with a razor.
do not get mental, man.
ya caught me in a bad mood.
ya always in a bad mood --
...adrian am not sharp.
she is a loser -- she do not enjoy life -- she reads -- brainy -- pushin' thirty friggin' years old!  she is going to die alone if she do not wise up.
I am thirty myself.
an' you are dyin' alone, too.
i do not see no crowd around you, neither.
i wanna kill the friggin' moron who broke the mirror.
let's get outta this stink.
the girl's dryin' up! she is got to live a little before her body dries up!! you are a pal, rock -- how 'bout yo' talk to her? y'know, it is thanksgivin' tomorrow.
...sure.
tomorrow you come for some bird, right?
absolutely...
how was the flight, champ?
very high an' very fast.
apollo, how would you rate this last british challenger, henry wilcoxson?
he was big, an' very nasty so i destroyed him in a hurry -- now I am gettin' ready for mac lee green next month.
you are referring to the much publicized bicentennial fight?
that is right -- it is going to be the greatest sportin' event in this country's history -- a gala occurrence!
still to be held in philadelphia?
the bicentennial heavyweight championship of the world is going to be held in the only place it can be held -- philadelphia! -- the nation's cradle -- january first -- the first major event of our two hundredth year.
where are you off to now?
me an' my wife are goin' home 'cause we miss our children an' can not go no more time without seein' them.
any quick advice for young boxing hopefuls?
...stay in school an' use your brains, dig -- be a lawyer, be a doctor, carry a leather briefcase an' forget about sports!! sports can only make ya grunt an' smell -- be a thinker not a stinker!!
yo, rocks, buy us sum wine, man.
...no wine -- bad for ya' brain.
c'mon, man, it is cold, man.
no wine.
yo, rock, gimme a dollar.
why?
'cause we dig ya, man -- gimme a dollar.
no dollar.
hey, give rocky a dime.
...that's an old one.
buy us some thunderbird, man.
...screw you.
what did you say?
...screw you, yoyo.
did these guys teach you to talk dirty? huh?
hey --
what?
stuff it, man!
do not you never say that --  -- you guys talk like that in front of a little girl -- you guys are scum.
we will kill you, man -- we got to gun.
pull heat on me? -- I will dent ya face!
how come ya wanna hang out with those guys? they teach ya bad things.
i like 'em. if you do not you can f --
hey! when i was your age, there was only one girl who talked like that in the whole neighborhood.
...yeah.
make your teeth yella --
i like yella teeth.
makes your breath like garbage.
maybe i like garbage.
nobody likes garbage -- anyway, this girl with the dirty mouth was not bad lookin', but the guys would not take her out for any serious datin'.
why?
'cause that is the way guys are -- they laugh when ya talk dirty. they think ya cute for a while, but then ya getta reputation an' watch out. nobody's ever going to take ya serious. ya get no respect... i got to use a bad word -- whore. you will end up maybe becomin' a whore.
c'mon, rocky. I am twelve.
that does not matter -- you do not really have to be a whore, just act like one an' that is it.
what?
yo, a bad reputation -- twenty years from now people will say 'd'you remember marie?' 'no, who was she?' 'she was that little whore who hung out at the atomic hoagie shop.' 'oh, now i remember!'... see, they do not remember you, they remember the rep.
listen, i hope ya do not --
i won't.
what was i gonna say?
ya hope i do not keep acting like a whore or I will turn into one, right?
ya, somethin' like that.
goodnight, rocky.
'night, marie.
damn.
i suppose we could cancel the fight indefinitely if you are set on fighting green.
you best find me another ranked contender an' i mean in a flash, man!
i contacted ernie roman's manager, he is fighting in france the same week.
then gimme buddy shaw -- he is ranked fifth.
shaw's fighting in south america -- why not postpone the bout until july fourth?
shape, nothin' -- they are afraid. they know everybody in the world's going to see this fight an' none of them got to prayer of beating me so they are makin' excuses so they do not have to be the chump that is going to be whipped in front of the whole civilized world!!
apollo, I am sure there is a way to salvage this.
i do -- maybe what this fight needs is something new -- a novelty.
you's the novelty, champ!
give my main man a raise!!
now here's what is goin' down. listen, 'cause I am going to say this but one time. on january first, the first day of the bicentennial I am going to fight me a local poor underdog, dig? a snow-white underdog. an' I am going to put his face on this poster with me, hear? an' I will tell you why, 'cause I am sentimental -- an' all the people in the country all sentimental, man, an' they would like nothin' better than me, apollo creed, to let some unknown get a shot at the greatest title in the world on this country's biggest birthday. now that is the way i see it an' that is the way i want it!!
...it's very american.
no, man, it is very smart.
next wednesday i grab a grand from snyder. an' thursday two yards from cappoli, okay?
no, two yards from snyder, an' a grand from cappoli.
ya sure?
hey, screw ya brain on right. now, who is this girl you are going out with tonight?
how did you know?
you think i do not hear things?
paulie's sister.
hear she is retarded.
she am not retarded, she is shy.
take 'er to the zoo -- retards like the zoo.
does that bum have to say that?
buddy's in a bad mood -- prostate problems.
he is always in a bad mood.  count ya blessin's. ya a healthy person -- ya legs work -- ya hands work --
i do not like ya face.
do not like yours neither.
kiss my ass.
move your shoulders down.
buddy's got a thing against ya, rock. some people just hate for no reason, y'know.
yeah.
here's fifty bucks -- you an' the girl have a nice time.
thanks, mr. gazzo.
how 'bout this billy snow?
fouls.
how 'bout this big chuck smith?
too old, dull fighter.  bobby judge is a good boy.
...i do not feel heat from the name.
joe zack is a good prospect -- exciting boy.
...still do not feel no heat.
exactly what are you looking for, apollo?
...this man.
'the italian stallion' -- he is my man.
rocky balboa -- his record's poor --
do not matter -- that name. 'the italian stallion,' it is right on.  who discovered america? an italian, right? so, man, what could be better than to get it on with one of his ancestors --
he will not last one round.
listen, i going to carry this boy three rounds, then drop 'im like a bad habit.
i do not like you messin' with southpaws -- they do everything wrong.
southpaw, nuthin' -- I will drop 'im in three -- 'apollo creed meets the italian stallion.' shhiii -- sounds like a damn monster movie!!
i usta be deadly at half-ball.
i hate the friggin' game... I would like to talk some business.
what kinda business?
look at my hands -- see how the joints are swollen.
inflamed joints -- walkin' in an' out of a freezer carryin' meat plays hell on the joints.
maybe ya should see a doctor.
i do not need a doctor, i need a different job.
maybe another job is the best thing.
do me a favor -- talk to gazzo. tell him I am a friend an' would do a good job... tell him i am not bothered by nothin' an' would be a great collector... bustin' bones do not bother me -- tell him I am a good worker.
gazzo's got to come to you.
I am askin' ya to go to him -- as a favor.
gazzo's got to come to you -- hey, paulie, it is a bad job -- do what you do now.
ya sister knows I am comin'?
yeah, sure -- she is very excited.
...paulie, why did not you tell me you were bringing him home?! look at me, I am not ready for this.
like it would make a difference if you were, right? this guy's a friend and now he is takin' ya out.
no... i can't!
ya, ya goin' outta the bedroom an' i do not wanna know from nothin'.
paulie, please --
hey, i want ya out instamaticly. -- I am sicka lookin' at ya hangin' around like a friggin' spider -- go out -- live! do, enjoy life.
...like you?
do not get wise with me. i want ya to stop bein' a loser.
i can not go out.
why?
paulie, it is thanksgiving. I have got to turkey in the oven.
!! ya want the bird, go out in the alley an' eat the bird -- i want ya outta the house -- enjoy ya friggin' life... ya hungry, rock?
maybe ya better forget it.
forget nothin' -- here, talk to my sister, tell 'er somethin' nice.
...maybe i better forget it.
try again, c'mon, try again.
what is ya sister like to do?
ice skate.
i did not want no turkey anyway.
it is thanksgiving.
to you, to me it is thursday.
looks quiet, y'know.
i think it is closed.
i think mebbe we are early or somethin' --
hey, whatta ya doin' here -- we are closed... yo, we are closed!
are ya closed to the general public or to just everybody.
hey, the rink is empty 'cause we are closed -- ya am not allowed in here so do me a favor an' not stay here.
wait here, gotta smooth this guy out.
yo, pal, what is with you -- the place am not operatin'.
listen, i got to problem. this girl am not feelin' well, y'know -- the doctor says she should exercise, y'know once in awhile an' ice skatin' is the best thing --
this a con?
look at her, ya can see she am not feelin' good -- needs a few minutes exercise --
few minutes?
...ten minutes.
ten minutes for ten dollars.
...yeah, give 'er the blades.
...aren't you skating?
am not skated since i was fifteen -- that is when i started fightin' -- got to watch the ankles. yeah, fightin' use to be tops with me, but no more. all i wanted to prove was i were not no bum -- that i had the stuff to make a good pro.
and you never got the chance?
nine minutes!
hey, i am not cryin'... i still fight. kinda do it like a hobby. see I am a natural southpaw an' most pugs will not fight a southpaw 'cause we mess up their timin' an' look awkward -- southpaw means lefthanded... but i guess in the long run things probably worked out for the best, right?
but you never had a chance to prove yourself.
absolutely.
i just dislocated my finger.
ohh!
seven minutes!
it am not your fault -- i originally done it in the baby crenshaw fight.  that is me fightin' big baby crenshaw -- big baby was the size of an airplane an' i broke my hands on his head -- i lost, but it is a nice picture, do not ya think?
six!
how 'bout some cokes?
cost ya a buck.
this guy is beautiful -- get the cokes.
y'know how i got started in the fight racket?
by accident?
here -- three minutes.
yeah -- my old man who was never the sharpest told me -- i were not born with much brain so i better use my body.
what is funny?
my mother told me just the opposite. she said, 'you were not born with much of a body so you would better develop your brain.'
that is ten bucks.
i must be goin' deaf 'cause i thought ya said, 'ten cents.'
...how 'bout for the cokes?
charge it.
some people are very shy by nature.
...i suppose.
i would say you are very shy by nature.
...i suppose.
some people think bein' shy is a disease, but it do not bother me.
it does not bother me either.
then why did i bother bringin' it up? 'cause I am dumb, that is why... y'know, i think we make a real sharp coupla coconuts -- I am dumb an' you are shy.
...it is just hard for me to understand why anybody wants to be a fighter.
ya got to be a little soft to wanna be a pug... it is a racket where ya' almost guaranteed to end up a bum.
i do not think you are a bum.
...i'm at least half a bum. yeah, fightin' is a crazy racket. the roughest part is the mornin' after.
morning after?
after a rough fight, ya' nothin' but a large wound. sometimes i feel like callin' a taxi to drive me from my bed to the bathroom... ya' eyes hurt, ya' ears hurt, ya' hair even hurts... but the thing I am proud of is i been in over sixty fights an' never had a busted nose -- bent an' twisted an' bitten but never broke... that is rare.
why do you do it if it hurts so bad?
...guess.
'cause you can not sing or dance?
would ya like a glass of water?
...no thanks.
here's the guys i was tellin' ya about -- this is cuff an' link.
i sold them to you.
...oh, yeah, i bought the whole kit -- yeah, ya sold me the turtles, the bowl, an' the mountain -- i had to get rid of the mountain 'cause they kept fallin' off.
do you have a phone?
i had it pulled. people callin' all the time.  who needs it -- who would you wanna call?
i wanna let my brother know where i am.
d'you really wanna call?
yes, i do.
you sure?
yes.
why?
i think he might be worried.
I will call your brother.
what is the matter? ya do not like the room?
it is fine.
it is only temporary.
it is not that --
what is the problem? you do not like me -- do not like the turtles -- what is it?
i do not think i belong here.
it is okay.
no, i do not belong here.
it is all right -- you are my guest.
...i've never been in a man's apartment before.
they are all the same.
I am not sure i know you well enough -- i do not think I am comfortable.
yo, I am not comfortable either.
i should leave.
but I am willin' to make the best of this uncomfortable situation.
would ya take off your glasses?
what?
the glasses... please.
...t-thank you.
do me another favor?
...what?
could ya take off that hat.
i always knew you was pretty.
do not tease me.
hey, rock -- what happened?
'bout what?
did ya get the message, kid?
message -- what message?
a rep from miles jergens' promotions was lookin' for ya -- they need sparrin' partners for creed.
ya puttin' me on?
here's the card?
when was they here?
'bout an hour ago.
probably lookin' for sparrin' partners.
...i said that before.
hello, mr. balboa -- I am miles jergens -- please, have a seat.
...thanks.
mr. balboa --
rocky.
rocky, do you have any representation? a manager?
no -- just me.
rocky, would you be interested in --
sparrin'?
excuse me.
i know ya need sparrin' partners -- I am very available.
I am sure you are.
absolutely -- sparrin' with the champ would be an honor -- y'know what?
what?
i would not take no cheap shots. I would be a good sparrin' partner.
rocky, would you be interested in fighting apollo creed for the championship?
...like i said, I would make a boss sparrin' mate.
did you hear what i said?
sure, an' I am smart enough to know that no sparrin' partner should take cheap shots at the champ. he is just there to help condition the man.
not spar, I am asking whether you would be interested in fighting creed for the championship.
do me a favor -- his lungs, punch 'em out.
paul.
this is your largest payday ever -- how do you feel about it?
feel? i dunno... happy.
how will you fight apollo creed?
creed's great, am not he... I will do what i can.
is it true the most you have ever made in a prizefight is five hundred dollars?
four hundred -- but that was a long time ago.
and now your payday will be one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. any comment?
listen, i wanna say hi to my girlfriend -- yo, adrian!
oh, rocky!
christ.
you didn't!
why?
do not it matter none he is makin' ya out a fool? -- I would break his lips.
it do not matter.
he is takin' cheap shots.
it do not bother me none.
yo, rock -- now ya'll be lookin' for people to help, right?
help what?
y'know, to help keep ya livin' clean.
I will do okay.
ya got to have a guy help ya exercise, mebbe somebody to be standin' by with a towel or run errands, y'know.
hey, who cared about me yesterday, huh? nobody -- i think I am going to train myself.
without havin' good people around, ya will not have such a good chance.
einstein flunked out of school... twice.
that so.
roosevelt finished last in his class -- beethoven was deaf, an' helen keller was blind -- i think rocky has a good chance.
how did ya like hearin' ya name on tv?
i do not know -- i was shocked. why did you do that?
ya puttin' me on, right?
absolutely -- what time should i expect you?
'bout seven.
I will be waiting.
y'know how i said that stuff on television did not bother me?
yes.
it did.
y'know i will not be able to work for ya no more.
hey -- if a good man can make a better life, let him make it.
i feel bad about walkin'.
take your shot, kid -- you got money for trainin' expenses?
a few bucks.
here's five hundred -- put it in your glove.
do i have to pay juice?
does santa claus charge juice? merry christmas -- now, how is about my present, ya going to win?
gonna try.
listen, kid, I am with ya. ya know, I am with ya -- italian, we are blood. you kill this rug -- we guinneas got to show these afro-americans where it is at. give it your best shot cause i want ya to prove to these bums on the corner that my man can not be beat by this rug... ya got any action on the side.
no action.
ya gettin 150 grand killer. ya got any plans for it? whatta ya think? ya like to put it on the street, make it work for ya?
I am going to do somethin with it.
sure, you do what ya want. stay away from the stock market.
black market?
same thing. ya know, rock, remember when we was kids, we fought together. an' i was not well an' ya had to beat up that irish kid -- what is his name? -- gallager -- i bought a suit and became a businessman. you put on gloves. an' i remember mama almost cried, may she rest in peace -- an' our old man who said ya had no brains --i'd like to lay hands on that bastard. you am not never had any luck. even when i owned you in '66 you never had luck. but now i think you might be gettin' some luck kid. whatta you think?
yo, you gonna show, tony?
where else am i gonna go.  bet three grand on rocky.
i seen the light. i figure somebody was home.
hey, mickey -- whatta ya doin' here? here, sit down.
best seat in the house -- hey, mick, this is too much.
how do you mean?
I am usta seein' ya at the gym, but seein' ya here, in my house, it is kinda outta joint.
listen, rock, you are a very lucky guy.
yeah.
what is happened is freak luck.
freak luck for sure.
look at all them other fighters. real good boys. good records. colorful. fight their hearts out for peanuts -- but who cared? nobody. they got it shoved in their back door. nobody ever give them a shot at the title...
freak luck is a strange thing.
whatta' those?
turtles -- domestic turtles.
I am here tellin' ya to be very smart with this shot. like the bible sez, ya do not get no second chance.
fifty years, huh.
fifty years. the rep is known around philly, an' a good rep can not be bought, but i do not have to tell you that.
how 'bout a glass of water?
rocky, d'ya know what i done?
...what?
i done it all. I have done an' seen everything'. believe what I am tellin' ya -- ya shoulda seen the night in brooklyn, i smacked 'ginny' russo outta the ring, september 14, 1923 -- same night firpo knocked dempsey outta the ring. but who got the press? he did. he had a manager -- september 14, 1923.
ya got a good mind for dates.
nobody ever said that -- there is his picture.
yeah, ya kinda remind me of the rock. ya move like 'im.
really think so?
ya got heart.
heart, but i am not got no tocker.
respect, i always dished ya respect.
...ya gave dipper my locker.
I am sorry, i -- i made a mistake. kid, I am askin' man to man. i wanna be ya manager.
the fight's set -- i do not need a manager.
look, you can not buy what i know. ya can't. I have seen it all! i got pain an' i got experience.
i got pain an' experience too.
please, kid.
whatever i got, i always got on the slide. this shot's no different. i did not earn nothin' -- i got it on the slide... i needed ya help about ten years ago when i was startin', but ya never helped me none.
if ya was wantin' my help, why did not ya ask? just ask.
i asked, but ya never helped nothin'! -- like the bible sez, ya do not get no second chance.
rocky, I am seventy-six years old. maybe you can be the winner i never was -- your shot is my last shot!
how ya feelin'?
...tight.
i got whiskey here.
...no.
if ya do not pay gazzo, ya end up hangin' on the hook, right?
gazzo's a good man.
how 'bout you talk to 'em about me?  please do me that favor.
keep this job, ya eat better.
y'know, d'ya think you an' my sister -- ah, doin' good together?
whatta you think?
am not sure, what is the story?
what?
the story -- what is happenin'?
ya really like her?
sure i like her.
what is the attraction? i do not see it?
i dunno -- she fills gaps.
what gaps?
she got gaps. i got gaps -- together we fill the gaps.
you ballin' her?
do not talk dirty 'bout ya sister.
c'mon, ya screwin' her?
tie it to both ankles -- leave two feet slack.
i never had good footwork.
so much has happened lately -- has it changed your life style much?
...people talk to me more.
how're you preparing for this bicentennial bout?
we can cut that out later. apollo creed says he will let you stay three rounds before he puts you away.
apollo's a great fighter.
do you feel you have a chance?
maybe --
I will tear his head off.
do you have anything derogatory to say about the champion?
derogatory? yeah, he is great.
i say ya nothin'!
what is happenin' here?
I am happenin'! this pig is takin' my shot -- i iz a contender. he is nothin'.
you can forget about sparring, kid.
yo' know i iz the best man here! yo' said so yoself!
why let rocky here take a chance on cuttin' or breakin' a hand? -- take a shower, dipper.
do not mouth me, old man, I will knock yo' out too. c'mon, wop, spar me, let everybody see who is got the heat around here.
yo' yellow, old man.
not yellow, cautious.  see, it is very easy for a fighter to accidentally hurt --
do not you open them anymore?
they either say, 'kill the nigger' or 'hope you die, honky.' -- what ya got in the bag?
like?
sharp -- real nice.
really -- you do not think they are overly feminine?
no... sharp -- you look great.
adrian, you really look great, y'know -- but i can not fool around durin' trainin' -- makes the legs weak.
do not want weak legs.
can not fool around -- you look very great.
-- the legs.
yeah... but i think weak legs am not bad sometimes, y'know.
i thought it might be cute.
ya right --  mebbe we best just hold hands -- the shirt made me feel guilty, y'know.
yo, rock. i made a few phone calls an' thanks to me ya goin' to be a big man -- thatta dog?
whatta these guys want?
to see ya train.
yo, what is with you? -- it was suppose to be private.
i thought i was doin' ya a favor -- c'mon inside -- y'know, my sister really likes ya.
...and he called the reporters --
yeah... threw my whole day off.
do not be mad at him -- he just wants to help.
yo -- i am not mad. I am just outta joint when reporters are around -- they take cheap shots an' paulie knows it.
...are you going to say anything to him?
...what's to say? i dunno what he wants from me --
nothin'! i want nothin' from you!!!
paulie!
shutup! i want nothin' -- i am not no charity case! get outta my house!
it is not your house --
you am not no friend no more -- go home! outta my house i want ya!
do not talk like that to him!
get outta my life both of ya's.
outta my house i want ya!!
...it's cold outside, paulie.
...paulie. stop now!
i want 'im outta here --  do not think I am good enough to work for gazzo?  that is what i think of bums like you an' gazzo!  you are goin' up an' do not care enough to throw paulie some crumbs!  i give ya meat, an' i give ya my sister, too!
only a pig would say that!
you forget what i went through to give ya the best.
you gave me what?! knots! you gave me knots in here every day -- you made me scared of everything!
i always seen ya had the best, but did ya ever think of puttin' in a good word for me with this scumbag!
do not do that again!
get away from me -- i could never even get married 'cause you could not live by yaself -- ya'd die by yaself! so instead i put you two together -- did ya think of puttin' in a good word for me? -- you owe me!
owe you what?
you owe me an' are supposed to treat me good!
good? good, paulie?! I have been treatin' you like a baby. since i can not remember it is so long -- I am the only one who feeds you an' puts you in bed when ya can not stand up -- and it is you that made me feel like a loser -- that is what ya use to call me 'loser' -- what kind of name is that? so can ya blame me for not remembering to talk about you when I am with rocky -- i do not owe you, paulie, you owe me.
you busted?!
what?!
you a virgin? -- ya let 'im in ya pants, did not ya!  ya pulled down ya pants an' let him have it, did not ya!!
...i can not haul meat no more.
what can i do about it?
christ, i been beggin' ya for a break until I am sick inside.
what break? huh? what break! who am i to give breaks! I am a fighter, you haul meat. you do what you do an' i do what i do best -- that is it -- that is life, man!
wanna hear a dirty joke?
...yes --
what cha say, benny -- meet 'the rock.' this is our cutman, benny stein.
yo, benny.
check the eyes, ben.
rocky, do you realize everybody in this country knows your face, and after the fight everybody in the world is going to.
yeah...
what was that you said about a pet shop?
...what?
what did you say about a pet shop?
i do not want ya cleanin' nobody else's cages no more.
is everything all right?
i gotta go out for a while.
...can't do it.
...what?
...i can not beat him.
apollo?
yeah, i can not beat him.
i been watchin' the movies -- studyin' -- he am not weak nowhere.
what are we going to do?
...i dunno.
oh, rocky -- you worked so hard.
it am not so bad, 'cause i was a nothin' before --
do not say that.
c'mon, it is true -- but that do not bother me -- i just wanna prove somethin' -- i am not no bum... it do not matter if i lose... do not matter if he opens my head... the only thing i wanna do is go the distance -- that is all. nobody's ever gone fifteen rounds with creed. if i go them fifteen rounds, an' that bell rings an' I am still standin', I am going to know then i were not just another bum from the neighborhood...
do not you care what the people will say?
...i'm doin' it for a friend.
whatta you get outta this?
i get the robe an' paulie gets three grand.
...shrewd.
we would like to welcome our viewing audience to the grand world championship bicentennial heavyweight fight -- the first major event of the bicentennial year... a point of interest is that the fight is being beamed to more than seven hundred and fifty million fans in theatres in nearly every corner of the world. i would like to welcome an old friend, and co-commentator for this evening's event -- jimmy michaels.
thank you, bob. the electricity is everywhere tonight. rocky balboa, a fifty-to-one underdog, is living a cinderella story which has captured peoples' imaginations all over the world -- to quote a popular sports magazine, 'the fighting style should be 'the caveman against the cavalier.' from the increase in sound it appears the challenger is now approaching the ring... his record is forty-four wins, twenty losses and thirty-eight knockouts.
i only wonder if this man has the skill to go past three rounds -- vegas odds say, 'no.'
you could go deaf with the noise -- it undoubtedly means champion apollo creed is heading towards the ring --
am i seeing right? creed is approaching the ring in a boat. is he supposed to be george washington? obviously so.
it is been confirmed that it is definitely an impersonation of george washington -- a great way to start 1976 off.
i agree.
do not let 'im get you tight.
whatta ya think that outfit cost?
god bless ya, rock.
thanks, mick -- I am going to try.
the champ stings the slower challenger with jabs at will -- balboa blocks eighty percent of the blows with his face -- creed does not look the best he is ever been but is moving smoothly -- creed snaps out a triple combination that backs balboa into a corner -- oh, a solid hook by creed, a master of fist-men.
the champion is smiling and toying with the man -- trying to give the fans their money's worth and make a show of it with the badly out-classes challenger -- another left to right combination. i feel sorry for --
creed is down!!!
how am i doin'?
real good.
see how fast he is -- damn!
breathe deep -- keep ya chin down!! use the legs and drive through 'im. attack -- attack -- attack!
...that boy damn near broke my arm.
sure -- he can hit -- do not play no more -- stick an' move, hear?
I will carry him 'till the third.
do not play with this man, he is fightin' hard -- let 'em feel some real heat!
man, i rearranged his face with that right -- the people love what is happenin' tonight.
people nothin', you in a fight, my man, -- ya best believe what you hear... knock that boy out soon an' let's go home.
ya nose is broke.
damn! how is it look?
can not hardly tell. do not swallow the blood -- go for his ribs. do not let 'im breathe.
...the guy's great.
why do not ya tell 'im you are a fan!
if you had asked anyone who knows boxing, they never would have predicted a first round knockdown and the second round punishment to the body of the champion... most fighters will tell you, receiving a good body punch is the next worst thing to dying.
round three ready to start and should be interesting to see if creed can put the challenger away -- there goes the bell.
apollo almost sprints out of his corner -- feints and throws a pair of left-right combinations. balboa drops beneath a left upper cut and lands a very solid shot on creed's temple -- not much movement from balboa, duck a left, a right, another left and explodes with a right hook to the temple -- i mean explodes. the champ backs off.
there is no way apollo expected this kind of hitting power.
no way -- but the brilliant ability of the champion to master situations like this is one of his most outstanding traits -- creed tosses a perfect right hand that rocks rocky. creed on the offensive -- balboa takes the punishment and counters with a left flush over the heart... that hurt.
...that man's takin' his job too serious.
he is movin' to your left -- do not let him no more -- dance and stick, hear? do not play -- i know what ya feelin', but do not play.
he got lucky.
luck! you fightin' a crazy man -- but you got him hurt bad.  more ice, now!
how you holdin' up, kid?
fine... that guy's great.
gimme the water! ya gettin' tagged with his right. i think you should feint left and high hook 'im -- benny, check the eyes! can ya see?
see what?
ya sappin' his strength -- he is losin' steam.
he am not losin' nothin'.
without a doubt this is the most punishing brawl i have ever seen -- the ringside audience is spotted with blood. this fight should have been stopped rounds ago but rocky balboa refuses to fall --
not only has he refused to fall, but he has beaten the champion's body without mercy and the bout has become a vicious slugfest.
my side.
get that doctor.
no doctor!
you are hurtin', man!
no doctor!... I am feelin' good, bro!
wanna keep goin'?
would you keep goin'?
...yeah.
no more, ya wanna lose an eye? no more.
open my eyes -- please, open my eyes!
yo' bleedin' inside, man -- get that doctor.
one more round.
do not kill yourself, man -- let the doctor stop the fight.
...stop jivin'!
cover the ribs -- look here, elbow down, tight -- tight -- stand straight -- you are the best, you are the best!
...thanks.
how i look out there, mick?
great, kid, great.
i do not care what they say, you are a winner.
yo, can i have my locker back?
