sorry I am late...
what makes you think we are here to meet you?
who else would you be?
perhaps the police?
i know cops -- and you are no cop.
cigarette?
no thanks.
he trusts you to lock up?
let's just say he knows who i am.
whoever hired us.
i got this gig through a contractor. and he most definitely did not know who was doing the hiring, only that they were paying a lot of money...
so none of us knows who is paying the freight, this is just some anonymous job. for all we know, we are working for different people.
now that is an interesting proposition.
how so?
because if there is more than one party involved, if we really are working for different people, then perhaps some of us are on different sides.  your orders might be different from mine.
what are you talking about, man?  i do not understand.
what a surprise...
i got a surprise for you, blondie...
the point remains: we could be working for different people.  there is a chance for one of us...  maybe more than one of us -- has been paid to cross the others.  i do not know about you guys, but i like to know who I am working for.  it can help prevent a great deal of...  ...unpleasantness.
anybody tries to unpleasant me I will put two between his eyes -- one to do the job and the other to make sure it takes.
it is good to see you have all got such faith in our little undertaking.
who the fuck are you?
the name is deirdre, and I am running this show.
who are you?  ira?
not likely.  once, yeah, i was -- but there was not an inch of profit in it, and I am a cash oriented girl, if you take my meaning.  I am a hired gun, same as the rest of you, and that is all any of us needs to know about the other.
from here on in you want something you pay cash for it: no credit cards, no bank accounts are in place: ten percent up front, the rest when the job is done.  you.  what do you do and what should we call you?
these days they they call me gregor -- and I am a tech.  i do electronic work, surveillance, computer runs.
sam.  I am a weapons guy.
you were a soldier, were you?
once.
i drive -- and my name is larry.  larry from the states.
and who are you?
I am vincent.  and i coordinate.
coordinate what?
things.  this is my country, you know.
coordinate all you want, but make sure whatever you do gets cleared through me.  are we in sync on this, vincent?
of course.
they call me swede.
who is they?
everybody.
you shoot alright.
gets the job done.
all in the stomach, though.  your man might live.
not for long.
long enough to shoot back.
is that right?
it is been known to happen.
why do not you go do better, then...
yeah, well...  my way works too.
my way is better.
it is quite satifactory.
good, because it cost enough.  there is cheaper phones by far than that one, man: you better fucking use it.
i intend to.  this phone is wired like no other: it is got an encryption chip and instant sat-a-link recognition, it can talk to any computer in any language and make it understand.  with my custom hardware and this phone i can trace the target's cell phone signature and follow him anywhere he goes...
you sure about this?
I would stake my reputation.
but would you stake your life, that is the question...
in this business, your life and your reputation are more often than not one and the same.
you should watch what you eat.
who the fuck died and appointed you food czar?
I am just worried about your health, larry.  you could stand to shed a few pounds.
and you could stand to get a little smarter, am not that right you dumb blonde fuck?
who you calling dumb, dickless?
where to?
to see a man about a thing.
i can do that.
pretty much what you would expect.
that is what i thought.
he says this is their block.
as in, they own it?
something like that...
and i suppose he is saying that we oughta give them something for using it, huh?
i did not know that you spoke french.
i don't.  but the language he is speaking is universal.
what did you say to him?
i asked if we could give him anything else.
that was a nice move you did on our young friend.  judo?
jujitsu.
same thing, is not it?
not at all.  similar, but not the same.
what is the difference?
one's a lot more painful than the other.
help yourself.  since when do you smoke?
i have, i do not know, maybe a cigarette a week.
a cigarette?  as in one?  one cigarette a week, who smokes like that?
i do.
christ, i smoke a pack-and-a-half a day, and i tell myself i could be worse.  it is just so damned pleasurable.
it has it is moments.  course, you get cancer and die, that is the down side.
there is that.
so, vincent: why bring me along for the ride?  job like this calls for a warm body, somebody who can stand around and look threatening.  a tough guy.
like larry or swede.
exactly.  why not bring them?
let's just say i thought the conversational possibilities were limited.  of course, i might have brought gregor, but he did not seem like the right candidate -- for this.
watch that one, he is an ex-spook for sure, maybe stasi, maybe kgb.  he is smart, gregor is.
so is the woman.
deirdre?  smart, yeah, and seriously goddamned dangerous.
i wonder if she truly left the ira.
I have wondered that myself.  none of this answers my question, though...  why bring me?
i wanted to see who you were.
who am i?
you were once some kind of special forces.  airborne ranger, maybe a navy seal.  after that you rode shotgun for the cia in some place like el salvador or afghanistan, a real mercenary.  only now -- now you are like the rest of us, it is a very competitive market since the end of the cold war.  there is a lot of hired guns out here, and not nearly enough work to go around.
that is right: there is not hardly enough work these days, nothing that pays the big money, anyhow.  then along comes this job, paying so much goddamned money i could not afford not to take it.  somebody is paying through the nose for this.
they certainly are.  whatever it is we are going to steal, it must be quite something.
whatever it is it must be goddamned priceless.
lovely, is not it?
they would have to keep something like this under lock and key in new york, and it would still get fucked up.
do you have it?
not so fast.  who is that?
he is company.
bad company...
what do you mean?
he is a cop, vincent, he is french and he is a cop and you better shoot him in the fucking head right now!
what is going on?
i just wanted to see something.
see what?
i needed to know.
you need to know a lot of shit, vincent.
here's yours.
there is been a slight problem.
what is that?
if you say a word in english, vincent, my friend with the high powered sporting rifle will shoot you in the throat. sorry to screw you over like this, but the information you want might get me killed if i give it to you, and that is a price I am not willing to pay.
i take it you still want the money...
of course.
where is my information?
in here...
then you better find it in your heart to tell me, francois, because while your death is inevitable, it still is not decided how painful it is going to be.
you know, what you pulled back there, that was bullshit.
i needed to see if you were a cop.  I am a popular man with the police, sam, and whenever they try to catch me they always do it with an inside guy -- some man on some job who seems more trustworthy than all the others put together.  and that is the guy you have to watch out for.  i hate cops...
well i am not a cop.
how did you know?
know what?
that there was a gun pointed at me.
i saw you look off when francois nodded his head.  i figured he was not pointing out a particularly rare shrub, and the rest was easy.
but how did you know i would have the presence of mind to pull my weapon when i did?
because that is what i would have done...
we kept it...
is that right?
hazard pay...
the two of you were supposed to go to a simple meet and come back with a simple piece of information, and instead you went to fucking war...
we were not real thrilled about it either...
so what is the deal?
the deal?  the deal is we leave for nice at first light.
i feel as if I have wandered onto the set of enter the dragon.  could you teach me to do that?
i did not think to see you again tonight. you were pretty pissed.
i still am.
is that right?
that is right.
part of me says i should just look at this as a perk.  you know, a bonus.  but then i remember you are you -- deirdre who used to belong to the ira -- and it occurs to me that deceit and subterfuge come very naturally to you.
nobody's saying they don't.
and when i consider that, i have to wonder if you do not have some ulterior motive for being here, with me, right now.
i probably do.  but for the time being, I am willing to forget about it...
i would imagine that the great satisfaction in all of this will be killing the american.
i had not thought about it.  understand me, gregor -- i take no pleasure in killing.  it does not bother me one bit, but i do not get off on it.
a means to an end, is that it?
that is it.
then i guess we are set.
there is one other thing...
what is that?
what are you doing?
do not cross me...
nobody's going to do that!
really?
i need you, swede, i can not do this without you!
i just wanted to make sure you knew who you were dealing with.
i do, i do...
look, sam, do not take it the wrong way when i tell you we will not be doing this again.
you do not have to explain yourself to me, deirdre.
i know i do not have to, sam, it is just that, for once, i want to.  when i was a -  patriot, it was a given I would sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with.  you know: any man who needed setting up.  sometimes so we might blackmail him, sometimes so he could be killed.  sometimes so i could kill him myself. ira is not exactly an enlightened feminist organization, sam.  to most of the men i with i was always the girl.  "send the girl to do it."  "tell the girl to take care of it."  "have the girl fuck him."  but i look at you and i get this feeling you take me for what i am: no more, no less.
you are a hired gun, deirdre -- just like me.
exactly.  and last night i wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
i better be getting that.
duty calls?
just business.
now then, let's run through it one more time, shall we?  what is your job?
i use my cell phone to get computer access to the telecommunications satellite used by our target.  i trace his cell phone signature and use it to pin point his location as he moves through nice, relaying that information to you.
next.
you call me with the target's route, i follow along until we have reached the attack point and then i run his squag ass off the road.
which leads us to...
i ride with fat-boy...
eat shit and die slowly...
after we stop the target car i get out and use the heavy artillery to kill the driver and his bodyguard.
i blast the lead car into oblivion...
while sam and i take out the back two cars...
leaving...
then swede and i split with the package and meet you back at the rendezvous.
and then...
and then sam, you and i clean up whatever's left to be cleaned.
very good.  now all we have to do is live long enough to get paid.
alright, gregor, i'm...
ready when you are...
where is this broad?
you should learn a little patience.
is that right?
it is consider a virtue in some corners of the world.
not in mine.
i do not particularly like killing, tubby, but i want you to know that this one I am going to enjoy.
i do not think so.
it is a cocktail.  mostly demerol, cut with a little crank because we might need you awake in the real near future.
fine with fucking me, we got work to do. i do not care what it takes, we are getting our property back and putting it into the hands of the people who are going to pay us a great deal of money when we do.  i do not know about the rest of you guys, but I am not the kind of guy to just sit back and take it in the ass.  i do not mean that in, like, a literal way...
of course.
finding this package is a thing easier said than done.  we do not even know what it is.  what did we steal?
i do not know.
when this whole thing started you made it clear: you are running the show.  and i do not believe you would be running this show if you did not know what was going on.
well i don't!
and i do not believe you...
you go shoot me if you want, vincent, but you will be dead before i hit the ground.
i do not want you dead, woman, i want the the truth!
now, what did we steal?
i do not know...  well i don't!  it is a goddamned mystery to me just like it is to you.  but i do know who we are working for.  my people, and the russian mob.
and you believed me?  but it was not my people who did it.
how do we know that?
because if they had she would be gone along with the package, instead of sitting here with us.
exactly.  gregor, he was the russian's man.  it was my people came up with the idea for this run, but the russians who had the capital to finance it.  gregor, he was their insurance, and i was ours. everybody else was supposed to be neutral.  gregor must have got to swede...
i never did trust that blonde fuck...
that is why you were riding with him.
the question still remains: what do we do now?
gregor's cell phone...
what are you gonna do, call him up and ask him to give us back our shit?
did he bring that with him?
i bought it for him -- all the stuff he was using, it was in his contract.  cost a nice penny, too, especially that goddamned phone: gregor had expensive tastes.
check this out.  gregor's a spook, or he was one until recently.  when he was a spy he lived the life -- you know, a prince in some eastern bloc country where nobody had shit and gregor had everything.  then the wall goes down.  no more cold war.  and gregor is out of a job.  no apartment, no special stores with western food and video tapes.  i would bet dollars against shit that gregor liked that phone and he does not want to give it up.  and i would not be surprised if he is arrogant enough to think...
that we are too stupid to trace his calls.
do you have it?
always in a rush, you are.  all these years I have known you, you could never wait for anything.
this is important.
do you really think so?
you know it is.
why did you do that?
to make a point.  i do not know her, and i was ready to splatter her brains all over the sidewalk.  i do not particularly like you, so imagine what I will do if you try anything...
it is under your seat.
what?
as my american friend larry would say: are you fucking deaf?  it is under your seat.
is it done?
it is done.
gregor, is that you?
much to your disappointment, no doubt.
it was a mistake, it should not have happened.
I am in the middle of saving you people a great deal of money -- the least you could do is have the decency to pay me!
so what do we do?
what i do is none of your concern.  what you should do is wait for my next phone call.  I am going to find a place where i can tilt the field in my favor.  when I am ready, I will call you and tell you what i want you to do.
what is going on?
you were not around when i woke up, i thought maybe something had happened.  this has been one very fucked up job, sam, and I am not taking any more chances on anybody...  including you...
i came up here to sneak a smoke.
you were smoking?
i hope you do not mind i took your pack. it was on the table.
please, help yourself.  smoke as many you would like.
i borrowed that, too...
of course...whenever you feel like it just help yourself.
i have a feeling I am about to start buying my own.
it was at that.
a lot of people died.
I have seen a lot of people die before.
i haven't.  not like that.  how do you get used to it?
you don't.  you just learn to live with it.
i will not lie -- there have been times when i had to do it, times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man didn't.
we live in a singular world, my friend.
i never really thought i was part of the world you move in, sam, to tell you the truth.  I am a hood, a thief.  big time in a small time king of way.  to the local police I am a prize, to the local hoods I am a legend.  but to a guy like you I am just another two bit hired gun.
you might be a hired gun, vincent, but i got a feeling you cost more than two bits.
he is going back.
not necessarily.  he could go off road at any number of places.  he might not even be in the country anymore.
it is paris.  the route's too indirect for anything else.  a guy like gregor, he does not waste time on this road unless he has to be on it in the first place. otherwise, he would be out of the country by now.  he is going to paris.  now i just hope we can find him before he gets there.
this...this is incredible. is the rest of europe like this?
some places, not all.  italy, for instance, they are serious about their food.  but try bloody britain, anywhere in the u.k., you do not get much fancier than a deep-fried bar egg.  food's not our thing, you see.
what is?
best beer in the world known to man or god.
best beer in the world?  budweiser for me, thanks.
budweiser?  you talk to me of beer and you have the unbridled gall to mention budweiser in the same sentence?  that is not beer!  christ, it is not even a poor excuse for rabbit piss.
oh yeah?  whatta you drink, then?
i drink what every civilized man, woman and child in the world drinks: guinness.
yes, gregor, they sent me.
I am touched, really, that they would send someone of your caliber.  it is nice to know that they did not make the mistake of underestimating me twice.
that was a mistake, trying to kill you. mikhi did it without consulting me, I would have never allowed it.
I am sure.  but I am sorry to say that it is too late for trust: we have a serious problem.
we will double your price.
really?  do you have the money with you?
do you have the material?
you first, edvard.
perhaps we could both go at the same time...
i think not.  after you...
do not talk to me unless you tell me what i want to hear, understand?!?  you have no choice in this, do not think about winning, think about staying alive.  i want the item, and if you do not give it to me, I am going to kill you.
i do not have it with me...
bullshit!
i swear...
then where is it?
i sent it to myself in paris.
sent it where?
a post office box.
you are a cop...you're a fucking cop...i should kill you.
but you can't.
that makes twice now you have saved my life.
i did not save your life back there. risked it, maybe -- but i did not save shit.
you see it your way, I will see it mine. you need a doctor.
you know one around here?  somebody you trust?
no...i thought I would take you to the hospital.
no hospitals.  I will fix this myself if i have to.
fix it yourself?  why are we even doing this?  there is no need to run, christ...  you are a cop.
not exactly.
you are with interpol -- you are a cop.
if i was a cop, a real cop, I would have busted you a long time ago.  this is not about you, it is about the job i have to do.
and what job is that?
my job, vincent, a job you do not need to know about.  i can not go to the local cops -- they would never be able to get close enough at this point.  it is me or nobody, and I have been on this job too goddamned long not to finish.
it looks to me like we are all that is left of our group.
we?  there is no we in my world now, vincent, just me.
I am going with you.
this does not involve you, do not you understand?  i can not even guarantee you any money out of all this.
it is not about money for me, not anymore.
you do not have to do this.
yes i do.
when we are done with this, i want to do for that one myself.
now there is the deirdre i know.
and what is that supposed to mean, seamus reilly?
it means i was worried that all the time you spent away from the fold might have affected you.  you have been living the life of the hired gun -- the well paid hired gun, i might note.  there is no glory to it, but there are those that like it.
so you thought that maybe I would grown too attached to this charade I have been playing, is that it?
it is been known to happen.
not to me, you know that.
i thought i did.
hello, jean-pierre.
hello, my friend.  he does not look french to me, vincent.
american.
well, vincent's american friend, shall we see what we can do for you?
are you sure you will not have a drink?
no booze...pain's in the mind, and the mind i can control.  alright, let's do it.
alright, it is done.
you see the bullet?
clearly.
good.  now take the forceps, and remember, vincent, what we are doing here is routine.  I have done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field.  there are no vital organs where you are working, no major muscles or arteries -- you can not kill me.  just make sure you have got the bullet before you try to pull it out.
you think you can stitch me up on you own?
do not worry, we will take care of it.
then if you do not mind...  I am going to pass out.
he is tough, your american friend.
yes, sam's tough alright.
and you respect him.
of course.  do not you?
I have never seen a man who could have taken what he just went through.  he is a cop?
not exactly.
not exactly?  but close enough, eh?  so he saved your life, then?
how did you know?
if he had not you would have put a bullet in his head a long time ago.
some, thanks.  enough to move on, for now.
you should really let a doctor look at that.
soon.
but first you have something to take care of?
yeah.
something important?  a thing that cannot wait?
it gets done now or not at all.  another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where i can not get them.
forgive my intrusion into your affairs, but i am the one who connected vincent to this job, his agent, if you will.  he is one of my oldest friends and i owe him a great debt, much like the debt i suspect he owes you.
he sees this differently, as you well know.
i did not expect that he would.
you suffered through an agonizing pain last night, pain you could have avoided by declaring yourself an agent of the law.
vincent told you that I am a cop?
not a word.  but no ordinary criminal would have the extensive military and medical expertise you do.  and so i place the pieces of the puzzle together in a way that makes sense to me.  you work for some government agency and you carry a gun, and in my world, that makes you a cop.
so this is what, a test?
call it a reckoning of character.
if i was healthy, i could take that away from you.
perhaps.  but you are not healthy, and if you try I will kill you.
so what is it you want to know?
i suppose i want to know how a man like you is created.
created?
perhaps forged is a better word.  like steel.  like a sword.  you are a modern samurai.  I have spent my life around extraordinary men -- men like vincent. but I have never seen anyone like you.  I am afraid vincent will die if he goes with you.
vincent's life is his own burden; he will have to carry it for himself.  and I am not any kind of samurai.
you seem one to me.
a samurai has honor, a samurai live by the code of bushido, the way of the warrior.  I am just a killer for hire.  the world is not about honor, anymore. it is about survival.
where is the case?
there is a problem...
problem my ass!  i think you are lying to me, and if you are you are a dead man!
would somebody tell me what fucking well happened in there?
nothing.
if you are lying to me you poor excuse for a human being, I am going to blow your brains all over this car.
i swear, it has to come here!  it has to...
my man, how you doing?
I am alright.  and you?
doing well.  this is?
a friend.  i was telling him about how you always have the latest tapes.
why do not we step into my office...
i was wondering if you had any movies that were particularly new.
matter of face there is this flick I have been hearing about.  i have not seen it, but from what i hear it is pretty cool.
what is the story?
it is an international thing.  several different peoples involved, criminals from all over the world, experts brought together to do a job.  but maybe the most interesting thing about it is that preeminent in the plot we find the russian mob and the ira in bed together. an unlikely group of partners.
do you have the tape?
i might know where you could get a copy.
what I have heard so far, it is all a lot of talk.  i was not so sure what to make of it at first, cause, like i said, the irish and the russians are an unlikely mix.
you said you might know where we can get a copy of this tape?
all depends on whether you want the russian or the gaelic language version.
gaelic.
you sure?
I am sure.
can you get it?
the russian would be easier.
why is that?
cause the russian production company would be easier to find.
it is the irish tape we want.
gonna be tough.
last i heard there was a film rep for the irish players staying at this address, name of seamus reilly.
seamus reilly.
you know him?
i know of him.
seamus reilly, boy's a serious irish auteur -- a real firebrand.  thinks his more moderate filmmaking brethren have turned to making movies for peace-loving pussies, if you see what I am saying.
i get the picture.
tony and i have to talk some business, first.
i gotta try and overcharge him, he has to moan about the price, we settle somewhere in the middle.
it is a matter of respect.  why do not you wait outside, this will not take long.
the irish representative?
yes.
what is this?
the address of the russian production company.  just in case we need to find them.
thorough man.
you sure your friend got the right place?
if tony says this is it, then it is it.
tell me, sam: why do you do this?
do what?
continue when it would be so much easier to give it up.
it is my job.
then quit.  you do not work for interpol, sam.
sure i do.  you heard him, you heard the guy -- that is what he said, what edvard said.
it is a cover, then.  a cover within a cover, a feint within a feint.  you work for the cia, it is the only possible answer.
I am a field agent -- last of an already extinct breed.  i do dark ops.
dark ops?
dark operations.  wet work.  kidnaping. assassination.
very ugly.
it is at that.
not very zen of you, huh?  not so much the modern samurai after all.
i never made that claim.
i know.  jean-pierre did.
you were behind the door?
i was waiting to see what would happen. i did not want to kill him if i did not have to.
you would have done that?
i would have tried not to.  but yes, if it would have kept him from shooting you, i would have.
how could you have done that?
because i owe you.  look at that...
they do not have the package.
you think?
you said it yourself: gregor's not dead. if they had the package, they would have killed him.
well, if it is not mr. interpol himself.  i can not believe i misjudged you like i did.
oh please..you're on some sort of holy mission?
I am a patriate.
do not even think that I am buying that.
where do you get off saying word one? all the time pretending to be one of us, it is the same thing we were doing, seamus and myself.  and here you are so high and mighty, like you are so different from the rest of us.
i did not say i was.
bloody fucking hell...
what the fuck happened?
i do not know...
you do not know?  bullshit, you had her, there was no way out.
what in bloody hell is going on?
they are part of the team.  one of them's the guy i told you about.
from interpol?
that is him.
why did not you kill her?
why did not you kill him?
you slept with her!
how is it these fellahs managed to get the drop on us?
you slept with her!
you should have kill him when you had the chance.  but no...
you put everything on the line because you...
you slept with the fucker!!
this better be the real thing or you are a dead man!
it is, I am telling you it is!!
you have told me a lot of things, boyo...
lose them!
you lose them!
give me a cigarette.
right now?
gimme a goddamn cigarette!!!!
why are you driving?  you are not french, you do not live here, you do not know these roads.  why are you driving?
about time!
not yet...
good christ!  can not you lose these jokers?
they are good!
I am not here very much.
business keeps you on the road?
something like that.
i know i do not need to say this to you, but i need to say it to you.  this is my job, i have to do it.
so i do it.
no you don't, and you know it.
if our positions were reversed, would you leave me?
in a minute.
i think not.
do we need anything else?
yeah.  we need out fucking heads examined.
you better be careful, seamus, before something happens a plastic surgeon can not fix.
plastic fucking surgeon?  you think I am going to fix this, deirdre lass?  it is the mark of the patriot, and I will wear it like a badge.  as for those who done it to me, I will take my pound of flesh before this is all over.
you are thinking with your gun, seamus, and not your head...
shut up!!!  shut up and drive!  I am your superior officer and you will do as i goddamn well say, is that understood?!?
do i need to repeat myself?
no, seamus.  i heard you the first time.
not here.  they might see it.
if I am going to die for the cia, I am going to go out smoking.  besides, there is half a forest between us and them, they can not see a goddamned thing.
time to quit.
just like that?
not just like that... just before i turn around and it is six months from now and the first thing i do when i wake up in the morning is light a cigarette.
what of it?  samurai pain in the ass.
would you stop with that...
why?  you have got more force of will than anyone I have ever seen.  you handle a gun like it is a part of you, you perform surgery on yourself without anesthesia...  and most amazing of all, you quit smoking, just like that.
the mark of a true samurai.  what i do for the company, vincent, is no different than what you do.  we are both hired guns, and this is a job -- like any other job.
why then, sam, do not you act like this is a job like any other?  surely, if you are a hired gun, you realize that some times you just have to walk away without getting what you came for.
because i do not walk away.
why not?
it is the one thing I have got left to hold onto.  jean-pierre is one of your closest friends, is he not?
closest and oldest.
and yet you would have killed him to save my life.  you have a sense of honor, vincent, that i can not even remember anymore.  i do not know that i ever even had it to begin with.  all i know to do, vincent, is to finish my job.
and when you finish?  what then?  this package, whatever it is, do you give it to the cia?  do you really think they deserve it?
that is a good question.
do you have a good answer?
no, i don't.
sit, sit...  would you like one?
no, mikhi, i wouldn't.  since i will not speak your language, and you can not speak mine, english will do nicely.
whatever you wish...  this has all been a terrible mistake, gregor.  i wanted to play straight with you, but edvard insisted we try and kill you.
edvard said the same thing about you before he died.
I am shocked, shocked to think that you would believe him.
enough!
what am i doing here?  why, I am here to see my partners, gregor, the boys in the russian mafia.  see, your bosses had hoped to screw me by hiring you to pull your thieving double cross.  but they only just found out that what is in the briefcase is completely useless without me.  i can not fight them, and they can not kill me -- that means we are going to have to do business together.
but you hate each other!
what is a little hate between business partners?
so, you have got it all figured, do you?
figured enough to know there is an odd man out and I am looking at him.
i think not.  i have, of course, taken the precaution of wiring the briefcase to explode five seconds after it opens.  unless, of course, i deactivate it before it goes off.
that fucking figures...
should any of you decide to rush me, I will kill myself and whoever happens to be near me at the time.
and more importantly --
I will destroy whatever's in the case.
we will die if we stay here!
you will die if you leave here.
you have to stop doing that!
I will work on it...
let's get him out of here...
finish the job...
and now...
finish it!
go ahead, shoot... shoot and kill the bitch, i do not care.  and yet you do not shoot.  interesting. put down your weapon and walk away.
do not do it, sam!
shut up!
he will kill me anway, sam, shoot though me and kill this fucker.
are you alright?
alright?  it is bloody fucking freezing in here!
you son-of-a-bitch...
what?
you speak french.
what of it?
nothing...
"your field dressing saved his life." that is three i owe you.
you do not owe me a goddamned thing, vincent, and you know it.  you stepped in front of a bullet for me.  i owe you a heavy debt.
i know.
you better get some sleep, alright?
tell me something first.  the package: what was it?
i do not know.  nobody knows, except a bunch of people who are too dead to tell us.  there is probably a couple of guys back at the company who know, but i do not think they plan to tell me anytime soon.
what happened to it?
gone.  destroyed.
i guess that is for the best.
i told you, i quit.
just to keep me company, sam -- i hate smoking alone.  how about you?  i thought all you ira types smoked.
only the stupid ones.  cigarettes kill more patriots than bullets.  besides, I am not ira no more.
so where do you go from here?
i do not know.  i was thinking...maybe the three of us might partner up -- guns for hire, that sort of thing.
I am up for that...
not me.  you work too often with the same people and you become friends -- clouds your judgement.
come off it, sam -- if we were not friends already we would not be here now, would we?
