until you came along we were going to sonora.
what do you know about that. did you sell your place?
not exactly. they decided gambling and dancing were bad for people.  can i make it?
depends on how good you drive.
there you are. now take it easy and you will be all right.
thank you, mr. graham.
aspen does not want us mr. graham. they threw us out.
they should not have done that.
we tried to point that out. but there were some pretty nosey citizens who would not listen to reason. they said aspen had outgrown us. it is all right to play poker in your own home but not in a saloon.
i knew something would happen when they started puttin' up fences and passin' laws.
goodbye and thanks.
i do not like to see you go.
how does she draw?
a little hot.
that is right.
i do not see no sense to makin' people leave town if they do not want to leave.
hello graham -- joe -- mr. gardner.
graham's got something to tell you might interest you.
you should be. maybe lednov heard about that sonora ranch of yours.
maybe he did.
we are going to look for him. want to come along?
I have got eleven horses to get over the mountains before snow catches me and covers the feed.
and that is more important than finding lednov?
like you said, maybe he knows where my ranch is. if he does, he will be waiting on the porch.
who is lednov?
a man i used to know.
you might tell a fellow things, 'specially if the fellow's your brother, seems to me.
like what?
like why you are buyin' a whole slew of 30 30 shells all of a sudden.
i do not want to run short.
you never said this lednov's name before, that i can remember.
no call to. that jail looked pretty solid to me.  how is she feel?
nice.
but it is leaded up and anyway a 22's no good for real huntin'. you shoot a man with a 22 and where are you?
the thing to do is stick to rabbits.
what was he in jail for?
you sure worry that bone. he killed a fellow.
in a fight?
the other fellow was not even lookin'.
this is an awful nice gun.  certainly come in handy when there is men around who shoot people that are not lookin'.
you must be plenty worried about lednov sneakin' up on us.  think he will?
yes.
at the ranch maybe?
maybe at the ranch. maybe sooner than that.
do you have to be so close-mouthed? I am your brother. and I am ridin' with you. remember?
all right. I will tell you.
that is lednov!  we come along here.
and meet him there.
unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up.
sure a lot of guys lookin' for lednov.
yeah -- and lednov's only lookin' for one man. me.
why?
he does not like me. what you eatin'?
lednov.
they sure must have been travelin'. this keeps up we can start a store.
things get tough next winter, you will have somethin' to wear.
anybody hurt?
no. we came down the hill a little fast and...  ...the wheel broke.  can you fix it for us?
what is the matter with her?
too much excitement. how about the surrey. can you fix it?
this must have been in the family a long time.
it was a gift from the citizens of aspen. I am mary wells.
and this is helen carter.
I am clay phillips.  my brother steve.
pleased to meet you, ma'am.  we found your trunk. were you doin' the driven'?
i was at first. then i was hanging on.  are you going far?
yes, ma'am.
as far as -- sonora?
just about.
I have got eleven horses.
morgan blood. the beat in nevada. clay and me have a place on the toulomne river. we are going to raise horses like these.
they will not be riding in the wagon.
did you ever try taking a bunch of horses over sonora pass? it is quite a job.
you can not leave us here.
course i can't. I will give you a lift to the first ranch.
what good is it going to do us to go to some ranch?
you can stay here if you like.
we have to get to sonora. there are jobs waiting for us there. we will pay you for your trouble.
I am not running a stage line, ma'am, and i can not take a chance on losing the horses.
our kind of women?
you will have to drive -- except down hill.
maybe you are going about this all wrong. why not try telling him we will do the cookin' and mendin' and washin' for him. that usually works.  yeah, but suppose he took us up on it. where would we be?
maybe in sonora.
what is the matter with her?
too much excitement. or maybe it is just the heat. how about the surrey. can you fix it?
you think that is all we busted -- you should see...
now where is she goin'? --
i -- lost something.
it would not happen to be this...
and this is helen carter.
I am clay phillips.  my brother steve.
stretch out under the seat, miss.
which ranch?
how is that?
so am i.
it is a nice place owned by an old couple named wyatt.
thanks. and is not there something we can do about supper -- or making the beds?
steve and me, we use a saddle for a pillow and roll up in a tarp.
but you eat, do not you?
mostly, we open a can of beans and boil some coffee.
where do you keep the can opener?
in the grub box.  toward morning the dew gets kind of heavy so maybe you better fix up a bed under the wagon. spread some bunch grass under the tarp and the ground will not be so hard.
where did they go?
swimming.
drop yours. I am gunshy.
then do not come sneakin' around a man's camp.
a fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden, he do not take chances. my name's clayton and I am looking for someone.
i found their surrey --
so did i. they were in it.
she is a friend -- took off this morning sort of sudden while i was not around.
here's a man says he is looking for you girls.
hello, miss wells.
with a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other.
why did not you say you wanted to get married back in aspen. i told the man in sonora there were four of us. if only three show up, he might call the whole deal off. we have got to stick together. like we have always done.
of course it will work. you can get another girl to fill out the act.
and look at it this way. how about jim -- it puts him in a sort of tough spot.
if you were in his shoes would you take one of us home?
I am not in his shoes, so leave me out of it.
steve maybe you better get some wood for the fire.
would you, mr. phillips?
go on, there is a good boy.
is that your kind of reading, steve?
i can not read, ma'am. i just look at the pictures.
your brother's always looked after you, has not he?
since i can remember, ma'am.
but he just never troubled to have you get any schooling?
it was not clay's fault. we have been moving around most all the time -- mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place i can learn my letters then --
do not you even know your letters?
would you like to learn them?
i sure would.
maybe i could start you out.
that would be swell.  you know, you are an awful lot different than i thought you would be.
you are so nice.
did someone say i was not nice?
oh no. nobody said nothing to me. only i got the idea that -- well clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window i could see you dancing, but clay always took me over to the other side of the street.
good night, miss wells.
good night, steve.
there is a nice boy.
yeah.
that why you always took him on the other side of the street?
like what?
like sticking his nose into other people's business.
you can not stay here. there is snakes and it is cold and you will just get sicker.
i do not care.
suppose that lednov was to have found you, instead of me. why you would not have had a chance.
i said i did not care.
what is botherin' you, anyway?
runnin' off and worryin' people. makin' it tougher on clay than it is already.
do not ask me because i will not tell you! i will not tell anybody! go away!
do not act so -- crazy.
I am sorry. let's go.
that is a good girl.
who shot who?
nobody. the light was bad.
what is she doin' runnin' around the country at night.
i would not know. did you ask her?
all i can get out of her is she do not care about livin'.
look of things, she doesn't.
yeah. keep a closer eye on her --  and him. shootin' going on, we will never find lednov.
there was only three of them at first. i guess i lost my head.
how did you happen to miss?
they were quite a ways off and the wind was blowin'. i did not have them to aim.
good thing you didn't.
a man can not help gettin' excited once in a while.
that is right, steve.
can i have my gun back?
sure. you will find it under the wagon seat. like i said before, a twenty- two's more your size.
gee, i can't.
why not? you went farther than that last time.
I am too old for it, miss wells... that is for little kids.
do not be silly... nobody's too old to learn.
okay. a-b-c -- d-e-f -- g-h-i --
get back to the horses. they are straggling.
he is learning his letters.
yeah. while the horses wander all over the country.
learnin' to read has nothing to do with the right or the wrong side of the street.
are the horses stragglin' or are not they?
they are stragglin'.
his letters will keep.
it is all right with me if she teaches you, but i do not want you forgettin' your job.
i will not again.
okeh, i was wrong. but you can not expect a fellow who never saw lednov and never heard his name until a while ago to do too much worryin'. you have been sorta close mouthed about him.
i guess i have. you were pretty little when they locked him up. i do not suppose you even remember that time i was gone two months.
sure i remember. you went to mexico lookin' for cattle.
you remember jeff rawson? -- we used to go fishing and hunting with him when you were so high.
sure i do. went off down to mexico or something...
that is what i told you then. only he didn't. lednov killed him.
oh... that is the time you went away.
i caught up with lednov in nogales. he did not like the idea of comin' back across the border but he came. i turned him over to the sheriff and -- that is the story.
maybe you shoulda killed him.
maybe i should. but i was never much on killin'. anyway, he moved too quick and i just got him through the shoulder.  looks pretty peaceful up ahead.
yeah, it does.
but you never can tell. why do not you get that new rifle out of the wagon?
but the nearest shelter's the wyatt ranch and that is maybe five hours away.
can we get a doctor at that ranch?
no, ma'am, we can't. we can get a roof and a fire and maybe mrs. wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people.
why, yes. they are all i need...
mine's gone lame. take a look at him.
he dropped a shoe. you should not be ridin' him.
put on another one.
that will not help the stone bruise. you am not been around horses much, looks like.
will you quit gabbin' and do what you are told.
what are you doin' --
lookin' around.
we got to get movin'.
what for?
because there is a man i want to see.
he can wait. let's stay here until morning.
i said let's go.
one night more will not matter. your friend'll be there. anyway i do not think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch. he knows you are out so he am not going to sit still for it.
i said i had a guy to see and I am going to see him.
you can light the lamp.  I am sure glad it is you. we were afraid those killers might come back.
three men on matched roans?
yeah, how did you know?
the whole state's lookin' for 'em.  and they are lookin' for me.
you do not know how good it is to see you.
maybe you will not feel that way after i tell you what i stopped in for.
tell them to come on in.
but I am going to have to leave 'em here. they are --- well they are not the sort of people you are used to.
it does not matter who they are.
and one of 'em is sick.
why did not you say so. go right out and get her. ed. build the fire up.
so that was why she tried to run away.
did not you know she had a father and mother out here?
i did not know anything about her except she wanted a job because some man had left her stranded. i could not leave her in the street. let's go.
hold on.
we can not stay here!
it is a long walk back to aspen.
I am sorry about this, mr. wyatt. i did not know who she was.
all right, you did not know.
i can not take her with me.
nobody asked you to.
you are not bein' quite fair.
what is there to be fair about?
I am sorry about this, mr. wyatt. i did not know you had a daughter.
all right, you did not know.
i can not take her with me.
nobody asked you to.
you are not bein' quite fair.
what is there to be fair about?
are not we stayin'?
no. we are not stayin' --
it is not like this was the first place we were ever thrown out of.
that is not what is worryin' me. why did not she tell us? maybe we could have done somethin' -- gone somewhere else -- puttin' a poor sick kid through this --
quit worryin' about elaine.
coffee?
no, thanks.  i hope we will not be a burden to them.
i hope so, too.
I am sorry, but that is how it is got to be.
i suppose it is.
and it is not only because the trip's a tough one --
you do not have to explain. did i tell you how grateful i am for what you have done?
i could not leave you sitting by the road.
you could have treated us like they did in aspen. no. you would not do a thing like that -- it is not in you to be mean or cruel.
i hope you get everything you want out of life --
thanks.
you have earned it -- the horse ranch on the toulomoe -- the girl in the spotted gingham.
the who?
you should know. she is in your dream.
ever since you have looked after steve you have had the dream -- a ranch on the river -- good grass, good water, barn corral and house --- that part you have shared with steve. the girl in gingham you plan sneakin' in when he is not looking.
go on. tell me more about her.
she wears this gingham dress -- cooks popovers -- makes jam in season -- makes her own soap from pig fat and wood ashes and has cheeks the color of red apples.
I will make the soap myself.
but the rest is right.
will she be dark or fair?
blonde as a new mop. and beautiful as the girl on a feed store calendar.
i tried my best, but these things take time.
and we are running out of that.
there is still tomorrow morning.
how long do you think we will have to stay here?
until pa gets around to driving us to minden.
we do not want to go there.
no we don't. but that is where we are going. from minden we take a stage to reno, then another one over to auburn and another one to placerville. then it is a day's trip to sonora.
clay could save us an awful lot of time.
he certainly could. about a month.
what are you waiting for? do something.
you are not giving up?
how many ways can a man say no.
maybe i better start working on him.
you would think he would do it for elaine's sake, at least...
go on. have another try at him.
what is the use.
please. maybe he will take a good look at you and stop thinking so much about his horses.
helen -- why do not you and mary go on with clay?
he will not take us.  do not you want us around?
of course i do -- but it would be better for you -- and the house is kind of small --
if you are worried about mary and me talkin' too much, don't. no matter how many questions your old man asks. we know how to keep our mouths shut.
it is not that --
do not talk -- eat -- we want to get you well quick as we can so we can all get out of here.
but i want to stay.
drink this and stop being silly. why would anyone want to live in this place. you might as well be dead and buried. nothing to do but look at mountains. in a week you would be talking to yourself.  maybe that is what got you started in the first place.
I am not going anywhere. I am staying here where i belong.
not if i know mary. when she rides into sonora, you will be with her. and mighty glad to be there after this. i do not see how you stood it as long as you did.
stop it -- stop it.
darling -- now I have got you all upset.
go away -- please.
that is right -- you go back to sleep. tomorrow when you feel better things will look a whole lot different. do not you worry about anything -- mary's going to talk things over with your folks --
she must not -- do not you let her --
there, there. do not you upset yourself --
if she says anything to them I will kill her.
i can not --
you have got to -- do not you understand -- they want me with them and they will fix it so i have to go --
no they won't.
what comes after z?
that is the end of the line.
then i know my alphabet.
from a to z. all you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words.
and that is tough, is not it?
without someone to teach you, it is tough.
he knows his alphabet.
that is fine.
leaving them here when we could just as well take them. we got plenty of room in the wagon. and -- and -- they cook and drive the mules. they do not bother anybody.
finished, son?
there is only two of them now.
-- and even if i do learn to read, what use'll it be? I am goin' to live on a ranch!
there is plenty of use for reading -- you will see.
u-n-i-c-o-r-n-... what in heck's that?
unicorn -- a kind of animal --
what do they look like?
hmmm... sort of like a horse -- with a horn in the center of its forehead.
horses with horns! huh! do we have 'em in nevada?
no.
how about california?
would they be good to eat?
kind of tough, i guess... but you are not liable to hunt them -- i do not think there is any alive now, anyways -- and I am not sure but i do not think there ever were...
then if they was not alive, how can they be an animal?...
an' if you can not hunt 'em and even if you could they would be tough, what is the use of knowin' how to spell them?
you do not read to fill your stomach... poetry, for instance. all the poems in the world would not fill you half as much as a bowl of eatmeal -- but they make you feel good.
i feel good anyways.
do not go arguing with your teacher.
I am not, but there is some of it i do not see any sense to.
there is a lot of things i do not see any sense to. but make up your mind. learn to read or --  -- go back and watch the horses.
well, steve?
now i know what a unicorn is, what do we do next?
are we leaving?
it is too light yet.
better go on back and get some more sleep. you will need it later on.
you are not going out to look for them?
no, I am not. all i want 'em to do is keep ahead of us -- a long way ahead. so I am riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail.
nobody's going to catch him sleeping. do not worry about him.
oh, i was not worrying.  i saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave.
sometimes not knowin' how to read has its points. you can not read books so you look at people and figure 'em out.
and you have got me all figured out?
sure.
like when you were standin' there looking after clay. i knew right off what you were thinking. because I have been watching you.
you were supposed to be reading words.
i was doin' both. here.
do not pay any attention to him. that is his way and I have found he is sure easy to get along with. i do not recollect him havin' hit me more'n a couple of times and i guess i had it comin'.
but you are his brother.
he will treat his wife just as good. maybe better. ever see him use a bull snake on the mules like other wranglers?
she was only teasin'.
oh, sure.
let me do that.
do not you trust me?
not on this trail, i don't. I have been over it before. anyway, you ought to be pretty sleepy. why do not you climb in back.
why did you change your mind about bringing us along?
why do you think?
i do not know. i thought i did. now I am not sure. i thought it had something to do with me.
oh, it did. it had a great deal to do with you.
you know so much about me -- figure it out.
so that is it --  you think i was making fun of your girl in gingham.
you would not do a thing like that, would you?
yes. but -- that was the other night. now -- i do not think i would.
we might as well start a fire.
go ahead.  get in training for the pioneer life. I am finding the nearest body of water and climbing into it.
want the wagon unloaded, clay?
just the grub box and bed rolls.
you got no business snoopin' around --
me snoopin'? i came down here to take a bath.
that something i should not see?
no. but it is mine and i did not want anyone foolin' with it.
what is it?
just a thing i was workin' on.
the way you act, it must be something pretty secret.
go on. take your bath. I will beat it.
you would not have a smoke on you, would you?
that sure smells good.
i like it.
up here in the hills, a man gets a hankering to smell powder.
then why stay in the hills.
you should have. i do not like leaving things unfinished.
maybe it is better that way.
you do not mean that clay.
tell me, darling.
what?
what does a man usually tell a girl?
what did you expect? speeches i do not mean?
i do not expect anything. a minute ago i had not cuite waked up.
I am awake now. go on. say what you want to say. I will listen.
if it is pretty speeches you want, you will not be hearing them. even when i mean 'em, they do not come easy.
save 'em for the girl in gingham. just tell me I am not good enough for you. go on. say a woman like me can not change.
all right -- it is said!
then let's get started. the sooner i get to sonora, the better I will like it.
you are sure there is more where this came from?
plenty more.  and somewhere up there is the lode, the rock rotten with it.
give it back to him. we are leavin'.
maybe you are. I am not.
i figure we will get along just fine.
well cheer, why do not you? no more responsibilities, mary. marcia -- elaine -- me -- all taken care of. down there feeding horses and raising kids, you will not have a thing to worry about.
-- gaslights and a dance floor and a big bar. cash registers with bells and a couple of boys with armbands just to keep 'em ringing. what do you think of that?
sounds fine. only that is not how it is going to be.
I am sure of this. but not of you.  you will not open any joint. I have been watching you change. you are mad now and you think you can change back. but you can't. you will end up making beds in a boarding house.
that is it then.
mary, honey. i talked too much, like always -- he thinks you told elaine the things i told her.
i do not care what he thinks.
no, I am not all right. I am soaked and i hit myself against that rock.
i suppose that is my fault.
all my clothes --
that is right -- worry about your clothes --
go on, take it. then you can not spend the rest of the trip expecting to get paid.
there will not be any rest of the trip. over the hill is a stage road and when we hit it you get dumped into the first stage that comes along. so keep your money. you will need it for the fare. I am fed up with you. i was fed up with you before we started.
we got company. female company.
yeah, we sure have.
i saw your fire and dropped by to say hello.
well, say it.
what is the matter -- restless?
yes, people make me restless.
even women?
there are not any women here.
i suppose that is your wagon in the river.
some people who went by this way lost it.  two men and some women. they packed their stuff on horses and went on.
and you are all alone.
yeah.
suppose i take a look.
go ahead.
when i ask questions, i like to hear answers.
they went on like i told you.
how do you know who we are?
everybody knows --
who brought you here?
you said somebody was comin' back -- who is comin' back?
stop it --
clay phillips.
where is he?
up the trail.
how far up the trail?
i do not know -- i do not know.
for the last ten miles I have been trying to figure out how to sleep sitting up. I am getting to the point where i do not think there is any place named sonora.
it is a long ways yet.  i figure we ought to camp. she is tired.
so grab yourself some sleep while you have the chance.
if you want to go on, i can make it all right.
like i said, i was thinkin' of the horses.
you stretch out. I will fix something to eat.
thanks, steve.
i did not stop to think, clay.
you better start.
all right, i hurt your feelings. but you know better than to go lightin' fires.
that am not why. i just figure it is about time to start runnin' my own life.
come on. we got a couple hours to eat and get some sleep.
I will eat when I am good and ready.
kind of feeling your oats this morning. i have not laid a hand on you for quite a while, but that does not mean you are too old.
what makes you think you are so almighty? telling people what to do and how to act when you do not even know how yourself.
go on, hit me.
sit down and eat. till i say the word, you are doing what you are told.
you oughta say you are sorry -- that is what you oughta do.
you keep your nose out of my life, young fella.
maybe i have not lived as long as you have, but i know a sight more about people and i would not talk to a mule like you talked to her and, if i did, I would say how sorry i was. I would be man enough to do that.
i said keep your nose out of my life. no kid is going to tell me how to run it.
you think you are so slmighty -- smart -- who are you to sit up there and say nobody's good enough for you, like you said yesterday -- just because a man kisses a woman --
i will not have you fighting over me.
I am sorry.
you do not know what it is to be sorry.
steve --
maybe it is not going to sonora, but it is going somewhere, which is all right with me.
it is going to sonora.
fine -- maybe I will see you there sometime.
some of 'em you did not mean but most of 'em you did. i do not blame you because i understand your way of thinking and why you think that way. you want your women on pedestals. but they have to be born on 'em -- they can fall off but they can not climb back up.
i can not help how i think. you are trained a certain way when you are a kid and you can not change.
i can not change either. not unless somebody wants me enough to give me a hand.
hurry up.
I am fool enough to believe that one of these days somebody will. somebody who wants me as i am will maybe walk into the place where I am working and take me out of there.
maybe they will.
goodbye. thanks for the lift.
goodbye, mary.
by the way, if you ever go past the wyatt ranch, have another talk with elaine.
you know what she asked me?
i do not care what she asked you.
she told me not to fight with you anymore. she said it was not your fault, but -- i figure different...
it is so your fault and... and i guess maybe when we hit the ranch... you andme better...
you want to split up? --
half of them are mine.
you will get your share. go on. i do not want you around.
what did you come back for?
like i told you, half those horses are mine. I am makin' sure they get to the ranch safe. so let's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin'.
is that the only reason you came back?
sure. what other reason would there be?
i just wondered. let's go.
how is that?
kind of sore.
you will live.
guess maybe I am old enough to hold my own in a fight, huh?
yeah -- but do not make a habit of it.
so -- maybe I am old enough to tell you how to run your life?
i guess so -- but do not make a habit of it.
well, then, i know it takes three -- four weeks for you to come round to admit when you are wrong... but by that time she is liable to be in china...
thanks for taking over.
thanks for loading me on the stage. i know now why you did it.
like i said, women get in the way sometimes.
goodnight.
goodnight, miss wells.
if you need me, I will be --
where you going?
to the other side of the street.
that job you were talkin' about, did you get it yet?
why?
because... well, you said you wanted a man to think enough of you to walk in the place you were working and take you out of there... tonight i was sort of tied up with steve... but tomorrow i figured on doing just that.
i have not got the job yet.
