i do not feel anything.
come on, it is graduation.
did you see what mr carroll wrote in my yearbook?  well, he ridiculed me all year long, and then he writes, "you're a real live-wire, love mr carroll."  y'know, it is all so phoney.
he wants to leave things on a good note.
well, where mr carroll uses the word 'love', i look for a new word.
lloyd, she is being difficult.
I am going to take out diane court again.
that is unlikely.
the movies are a good second date, you know, as a date?
but you never had a first date.
yes i did- i sat across from her in a mall.  we ate together.  we ate, that is eating, sharing an important physical event.
that is not even a scam.
what is a scam?
going out as friends.
then what is love?
I am going to call her.
diane court does not go out with guys like you.  she is a brain.
trapped in the body of a gameshow hostess.
diane court does not realise how good-looking she is.
sounds great to me, I am going to call her, that is what is cool about her.
brains stay with brains.  the bomb could go off and their mutant genes would form the same cliques.
i would not get my hopes up lloyd.
I am sorry.  it is just you are a really nice guy, and we do not want to see you get hurt.
well, it is almost over.  we have gone to school together for three years... i might cut that part out.
why?  it is fine.  it is nice.
having taken a few courses at the university this year, i have glimpsed our future, and all i can say is... go back.
ha!  go back!  what a great line!
you like it?
oh yeah!
i did not think anyone would get it.
oh no, no, it's... it is wonderful.   it's... no, do not worry about it.  you are very funny.  go back, that is great!
alright, no more, I am going to save it.
okay.
thank-you.  the real world.
look at those eyes.
ha!
well, it is almost over.  we have gone to school together for three years, and we have been through a lot.  but with that training out of high school gone, what is going to happen to us?  we all know what the answers are.  we want to be happy, go to college, own a car, maybe raise a family.  but what if that does not happen?  i have, i have to be honest though, i have all the hope and ambition in the world.  but when i think about the future, the truth is, i am really...scared.
look at those eyes.
lloyd, give it up.
do me a favor; take a picture of me with her.
lloyd.
c'mon, just do it.
c'mon lloyd.
please?
that is just so embarrassing.
please? corey alright. alright, okay, here.
wait for me for when i get round to the front.
okay, i got it.
lloyd?
hey, sis.
I am sorry. sam had to do a new crown, we had [?], and jason had a sore throat.  your big graduation, and no one was there.
it is no problem.  i called mom and dad in germany; it is like they were there.
i hope you understand.
hey, bad throat, huh j-man?
yeah.
yeah, you got to go 'yeah', strength.  poor little man.
why do you eat that stuff?  there is no food in your food.  not too loud, the red line's there for a reason.
how do you know how to draw the red line anyway?
because it is loud enough so the neighbors do not complain, that is how come i know.
good thing there is not a red line on you, j-man. yeah!
yeah!
he is back.  hey my brother, can i borrow a copy of your 'hey soul classics'?
no my brother, you have to go buy your own.
hook up the jab, hook up the jab.
why can not you be his uncle and not his playmate?
jesus christ.  i get in a good mood.  how hard is it just to decide to be in a good mood, and then be in a good mood?
gee, it is easy.
look, I am really sorry that mom and dad made you take me in. really.  if it is such a big deal, I will go.  but remember this, it used to be fun.  it used to be warped, twisted and hilarious, and i mean that in the best possible way, i mean it as a compliment. i mean, I am sorry t-i-m left you.  but i am not t-i-m.
i was hilarious once, was not i?
yeah.
i still am.
dad, you have to teach me to suture this weekend.
okay, i promise i will.  just come here a minute, i want to show you something.
what are you doing?
well, since I am not only your father, I am also your friend; i had to get you two presents.
god, that's... this is ridiculous.
now this is the only thing your mother ever gave me that i kept. now it is yours.  go ahead, open it.
oh god, i do not need all these presents.  i do not know any kid who got a car, i mean...
they really applauded you today honey.
i was standing up there and looking at all the people, and i felt like they did not know me.  i mean, maybe i should not have taken all those courses out of school, because everybody thinks i... forget it.
no, wait a minute.  everybody thinks you are what?
everybody thinks I am a priss.
diane, in a million years, you could never be a... priss.  it is all working out for you honey, do not you see?  it is all working out, just like we planned.  all the years of summer school, all the vacations you gave up, it is all working out just the way we planned...
stop it, stop it, stop it.
I am sorry.
i love you dad.
i love you too honey.
you are tough, j-man.
he is a mess!
I will be in my office.
i just washed this shirt, did not i?
jim court?
hello.  may i please speak with diane please?
sorry, diane is not here at the moment.
uh... okay... um...
is this the guy with the mustang?
no.
the guy with the datsun?
no.
the truck?
uh, no, not really, no actually, basically, you do not know me. I am a friend of your daughters; well i sat with her yesterday at the mall.
why do not i just get your phone number, that is usually how it works.
oh.  okay then... lloyd dobler, 555-1342.
okay, I will give here the message.
okay. she is really pretty great, is not she?
what?
she is really pretty great, is not she?
yeah, she is.  good luck.
okay.  good afternoon.  goodbye.
jim court... no, this is her father.  I will take...
what?
i just had a phone call.
tell me, is it bad news?
no, no, just listen.  you won the wreath  fellowship.
are you kidding?  you are not kidding?  you are not kidding!
you won it.  you are going to study at the finest institute at england, the toughest fellowship in the country, and you won.
i won?
you are going to take a big step, a big leap, and before you do, i just want one thing from you, miss.  you stand up straight and admit you are special.
god, I will have to go on a plane.
we will worry about that later.  now come on, tell me that you are special.
do not do this to me. you are too good at making me nervous.
no, listen to me.  you are the best in the country, do not you understand?  it is like a pyramid.  it starts out with everybody, and it narrows through your life and through everything, and all the hoopla and the competition narrows it down to one brilliant person who is so special that they celebrate you on two continents.  and it is you.  so tell me something, where is the flaw in that?  there is no flaw.
no, no, do not go in there.
forget it, forget it, it is mine, it is mine!
no noise, no sound, no movement, nothing!  hello, diane?
hi.  you called me?
yeah.  i read about your fellowship in the paper, and I am very glad you called me back.
yeah?
yeah.  i just wanted to congratulate you on your scholarship to england, and i wanted to tell you that i thought your speech was really incredible.
thank you very much.
whoah, what a day, huh?
yeah.  what a day.
yeah.
yeah.
quick question - do you know who i am?
yes, we sat together at bell's square.
yeah, yeah, yeah.  you remember?
no, i read it on the message.
okay, um, so it is lloyd and... uh... uh... let's go out.  do you wanna go out?
oh, thanks, but I am busy.
busy?
yes.  things are pretty hectic right now, but thanks.
are you busy on friday?
yeah, i have to help my father.
are you busy on saturday?
saturday, i have some things to do around the house.
so you are monumentally busy?
well, not monumentally.
what about tonight then, are you going to that party at valhere's?
hmmm....
look diane, I am sorry, but i can not allow you to leave the country without going to valhere's graduation party.  this gentleman, he is twenty-two, and he comes out of hiding once a year for this occasion, and he dresses up as the lakeside rooster, and he,
actually, i think that i...
y'know, you are not in england yet, you know that of course, and by the way, i want to just tell you that i lived in england for a few months,
well...
no tips.  i will not give you any tips of any kind.
I will go.
pardon me?
I will go.
you will?  excellent, alright, this is great.  you will, really?
alright.  this is really great.  alright, we are going out. it is a date.  it is a scam.  whatever, whatever, alright, I will pick you up at what, eight o' clock?
eight.
eight. eight o' clock.
goodbye.
goodbye.
pain!
work that jab, work that hook, work that jab, okay, take a break, take a break.
hi.  lloyd dobler, sir.  pleasure to meet you.
hello lloyd.
hello.  heard about that graduation present.  really quite a car. look, i know you are busy, you don't' have to retain me, but you can trust me.  I will tell you a couple of things about myself, I am nineteen, been overseas for a couple of semesters, but now I am back.  I am an athlete, so i rarely drink.  kickboxing.  you heard of kickboxing, sport of the future?  don 'the dragon' wilson, lenny [?] merciless, one of the champions of the sport?  i can see by your face, no.  my point is, you can relax because your daughter will be safe with me for the next seven to eight hours.
fine lloyd.
how ya doing?  is she around?
yeah.  honey?
whoa.
would you hold this for me?
yeah
what are these?
they are bavarian death style  pretzels.
oh.  um, would it be terrible if i wanted to go home early?
no.
it is got to stay purple.  all night.  hey lloyd, how ya doin'?
you know diane court?
wow, man.  well.  listen man, i need you to be the keymaster.
oh, i was just going to...
a very responsible young man you are out with tonight.
i was gonna...
thanks a lot lloyd.
i was just going to kind of move around.
keymaster?
yeah, i have to judge who can drive home and who can't. i have to keep their keys.
so it is an honor?
no.
we finally graduated, big dude guy!
alright!
i love you man
i love you too.
oh boy.
hey.
mike cameron, how you doing?
what?
mike cameron.  this is one fresh jam, huh?
yeah.
yeah, hey, oh god.  listen, i wanted to... i do not know you very well, you know, but i wanted to ask you, how did you get diane court to go out with you?
i called her up.
yeah, but how come it worked?  i mean like, what are you?
I am lloyd dobler.
this is great, this gives me hope.  thanks.
alright.  key?
i wrote sixty-three songs this year.  they are all about joe, and I am going to play every single one of them tonight.
i just saw joe.  he is here.
well, you do not have to be so dramatic about it.
lloyd.  lloyd dobler, I have got you.
how ya doin' miss evans?
you missed every one of your career counselling sessions.  call me obsessive, compulsive, but let's do this right now.
no way.
lloyd.
what?
do not make this like a counsel, lloyd. i got statistics i can show you, i got graphs i can show you.  that is all the stuff i can show you, it all says the same thing.  you have to decide on a career.
my dad's a lieutenant colonel in the army, he wants me to join, he wants to pull some strings.  i mean, there is no possible way.
we will just make an appointment for you at seattle junior college.
lloyd, everybody in that party put something down on their record except you.
how many people really know what they want though?  i mean, a lot of them think that they have to know, right? but inside, they do not really know, so, i do not know.  but i know that i do not know.
hang tough, lloyd.
joe.  joe.  she is written sixty-five songs.  they are all about you.  they are all about pain.
so what is up?
stop freaking with her head man.  just stop playing with her mind, you know?  she is a human being.  she is a person.  she is very talented, you know.
dude, why do you think i keep her tapes?  they are going to be valuable some day.
so we can finally talk?
yeah.
he does this every year?
it is the worst job since keymaster.
you know, every year i throw this party, every year nobody helps me clear up.  why am i yelling?
i do not know.
i do not know.  good on you man.  alright lloyd.
maybe we will come by tomorrow, help you clear up or something.
diane, everybody loves that you showed up.
give me my firebird keys!
you must chill!  you must chill!  i have hidden your keys. chill!
i love you man.
alright, i love you too. go to sleep.
we are full on bonded.
yeah, alright.
you are such a great person lloyd.  I am a good person, but you are a great person.
hang in there, man.
yes.
see you tomorrow.
see you.  bye.  bye diane.
thank-you.
i hereby surrender my duties as keymaster, give me a beer.
certainly.
i am happy to say that this bag is officially empty.
ooop, excuse me.
how you doin', brother?
i do not really know where we are.
have a good sleep.
bye.
alright, this is some of the things they wrote me; "glad i finally met you", "you always seemed nice", "wish i could have known you more"...
mine say stuff like "lloyd, see you around maybe"
nobody knew me before tonight.
they knew of you.  now they know you.
yeah, but i feel like i fit in for the first time, you know? like i just held them far away from me, and they did the same to me.
that is cool then.
yeah.  I am so glad we did this.
it is just you and your dad, right?
yeah, but that is an old story, you do not want to hear it.
sure i do.
well, my parents split up when i was thirteen, and... god, i actually had to... i went into court and i had to choose between the two of them.  so i chose my dad.  it just felt safer that way, you know?
watch out for that glass.
thanks.  but either way it still feels...
twisted?
you know what?
what?
you are a great date.  I have never really gone out with someone as basic as you.
basic.  hmmm.
so what is your job this summer?
job?  being a great date.
no, I am serious.
so am i. i want to see you again.  i want to see you as much as i can before you leave.  i said it.
i only have something like sixteen weeks.
sixteen weeks is a long time.
then call me tomorrow.
today is tomorrow.
then call me later.
morning honey.
dad, I am so glad i went.  goodnight.
wait a minute.  how was lloyd?
lloyd was such a gentleman.  he was funny and nervous and strange, and i met people that i never would have met before, then i blew it.  i called him basic.  can you believe i did that?
well, i do not think he is really been embarrassed by it.
goodnight.
goodnight.
lloyd is doomed.
meaning?
meaning that she made the second date a family audition, which is the kiss of death for lloyd.
why?
it is too much pressure, it is not his crowd.
what is wrong with this girl?
i told him to be himself.
he is got that nervous talking thing.  i told him not to speak.
hey, i know this is a strange thing to say, but maybe diane court really likes lloyd.
if you were diane court, would you honestly fall for lloyd?
yeah.
or, or i could always wear this one.
boy, this is a mother dictionary.
yeah, I have had it forever.  i used to have this thing with marking the words that i looked up.
nice one.
yeah?
i think you should wear that.
you think so?
mmmm.
she is not the world's greatest flyer, let me tell you.  when she was eight years old, she...
dad.
now why can not i tell the story?
well, let me start it.  I am flying down to los angeles on business, and i decide to take her on her first aeroplane.
i knew how planes flew, but i was still a little nervous.
crash paranoia.
oh.
i had a checklist in mind.  i thought that if babies were on the plane, the plane could not crash.  but all the babies were crying, and i thought they knew something i didn't.
so anyway, they closed the doors, and she starts to scream.  I have never in my life heard anyone scream quite like that.
and then you got up and you told them to turn the plane around.
which they did.  let me finish.
okay, i give up.
so anyway, these two federal marshals meet the plane, and they take our address, and they ask us never to fly with 'friendly skies' again.
oh yeah.  there was, uh, somebody on the plane worked in a recording studio, and, uh, we got this telephone call, this guy is making a sound effects record, and he would gotten our address and he wanted to know if he could come over and record her scream.
which they did, and every once in a while on a commercial, you can hear me scream.
thanks lloyd.
how do you pay for one of those?
well, we pay for the [?].  that guy did not want to part with it, a little matter of nine thousand dollars.
yeah lloyd.  what are your plans for the future?
spend as much time as possible with diane before she leaves.
seriously, lloyd.
I am totally and completely serious.
no, really.
you mean like career?  uh, i do not know.  i've, I have thought about this quite a bit sir, and I would have to say considering what is waiting out there for me, i do not want to sell anything, buy anything or process anything as a career.  i do not want to sell anything bought or processed, or buy anything sold or processed, or... process anything sold, bought or processed, or repair anything sold, bought or processed, you know, as a career i do not want to do that.  so, uh, my father's in the army, he wants me to join, but i can not work for that corporation, so what I have been doing lately is kickboxing, which is really a, uh, new sport, but i think it is got a good future.  as far as career longevity goes, i do not really know, because, you know, you can not really tell.  your training sticks  as a fighter, you know, but it is no good, you know, you have to be great, but i can not really tell if I am great until I have had a couple of pro fights. but i have not been knocked out yet.  i do not know, i can not figure it all out tonight sir, I am going to hang with your daughter.
jesus.  what, i live in a palace, right?  i have guests here.
understanding the following rights...
speak with my lawyer.
so you refuse to answer my questions?
just come down to my place of business, for god's sake.  i have people here.
mr court, be aware that we will be contacting a number of your business associates...
this evening is over.
and your former wife.
mom, please?
diane, i do have a history with this man, and it is not the greatest.  i see you so seldom, I would really rather know about you.
this is me telling you about me.
you know, i do not even know if you have got a young man in your life?
i just wonder what could be more important than what is going on with dad.
if we could just talk about boys everything would be so much easier.  you know, your room is always ready for you, you can always come home if... alright, what do you want me to do?
if they ask you questions, and they probably will ask you questions, would you please say something nice about him mum? help him?
alright.
you will?
okay.  oh, here's ray.  just talk to him because when you don't, your mouth turns down.
after work?
i usually have a break after the dinner service, if you want to stop by.
will not you see me later?
i know you think my job is strange.  you do not like old people, do you?
me?  sure i do.
come on.
well, except for one thing.  i used to work at a smorgasbord, and, and the old people would flock there, and, and they loved to eat.  and they just jammed their mouths, you know?  the used to eat with their mouths open, and you know, it is just too much for me.  you get to be thinking about how short life is, and how maybe, maybe has no meaning because you wake up and you are frying burgers
i think that is ageism, and that's, that is being prejudiced against people because they are old.  maybe their mouths do not work as well as yours.
really?  um... i... well... you are really turning me around here,
stop by later.
okay, bye, i will.
okay, bye.
I will see you there.  bye.
you have to meet bess.
okay.
she is amazing.  she is ninety-three, she is a writer, and i told her about you.
wait, wait.  you told her about me?
yes.
what did you say?
well... just meet her.
it is okay, everybody does that.
i just do not want it to get too heavy.  i feel really overloaded. i have this theory of convergence, that good things always happen with bad things.  but i know you have to deal with them at the same time, but i just, i mean i do not know why they have to happen at the same time, i mean, i do not know why, i just wish i could work out... am i just babbling?  do you know what i mean?
no.
i just can not have any social life right now.
do not worry about it.  we are just having coffee.  we will be anti- social.
be friends?
yeah.  with potential.
friends with potential.
yeah, just keep going first, keep going around.  get the feel of it, feel the clutch, when you put it in a little?
yeah.
you know how it will come out and feel... y'know... little more, little more... yeah, yeah, that is right.  go round just at first, keep it in first, just feel it.
I am doing alright.
yeah.  now, when you feel like you are confident,...
yeah?
if you will just maybe ease it into second.
right.
okay, this is important...
am i wrecking my car?
yeah, a little bit.  listen, this is important.  when you feel it start to give, put the clutch in.
oh.  i was putting the...
little more gas.  ease it up.  hold on- minor setback.  now you feel confident, right?
yeah.
now, go into second.  little more gas... yeah!  you can get  this whole problem.  now, maybe you downshift to first?
this is so noble.
well no, it is not noble, but it is a good aid to your lesson.
let's get outta here.  you want to?
yeah.
are you comfortable?
yes.  are you shaking?
no.
you are shaking.
i do not think so.
you are cold.
i do not think i am.
then why are you shaking?
i do not know.  I am happy.
here are some blankets.  this is a good song, this is a really good song.
morning.
dad, I am sorry.
you should be.
i was irresponsible, i should have called.
you bet you should have called.  you still live at home.  do not make me call the police at three-thirty in the morning, do not make me call hospitals.
dad, I am so sorry.  i know this is a bad time.
you have always called before, always.  now I am not asking what you did, i just want to know that you are alright.
I am fine.
do you wanna make things easier on me?  now tell me where you were because this is, this is bullshit.  you can say anything to me, i hope you still know that.
i know that.
lloyd?
dad, yes.  and I am scared to death of what you must think of me right now.
sit down.
did he ever get rough with you?
dad, no.  but i did not want any problems, so i decided not to sleep with him.
did you sleep with her?
i admit nothing.
lloyd, it is us.
look at his face, he did the deed.
you are an inspiration lloyd; you should go on the seven hundred club or something.
alright, alright, alright, calm down, alright, calm down. nothing's different.
lloyd, listen to me.  everything has changed.  you have had sex. no matter what you might think, nothing will ever be the same between you two.  you might be sixty.  you might be walking down the street, and you will talk to her about something, whatever. but what you will really be thinking is 'we had sex'.
so, what is your point?
you have got to do something special.  you have got to make a statement.
wait a minute.
you have got to show her respect, you have got to show her that you are not like joe...
wait a minute.
and above all, just because this happened gives you no right whatsoever...
you know i just sit here listening, and you never let me talk.
what?  I am sorry, talk.
I have forgotten what i was going to say... okay, okay, i remember. let him do what he wants.
alright.
lloyd, send her flowers, write her a letter.  something.
i already did.
what does it say?
read it.
"dear diane, I will always be there for you, all the love in my heart, lloyd."  I have never gotten a letter like this, have you?
i dream about it.
the, uh, cynthia branson estate was worth how much?  because her family...
what family?  we never heard from them.  i sold her house for them, made them money.
hmmm.  your income, mr court, has not changed substantially in seventeen years.
that is right.
why would you stay so long with an operation that is so clearly not a growth enterprise?
taking care of people is not a growth enterprise, mr sims.  i hope you write that down in your report, I would like your bosses to read it.
dad, maybe i should not go with all that is happening to you.
you are going.
but listen, if i had a friend in the same position, i would tell her to delay a year.
you are going.
it does not feel right to me.  i, i do not even have the right luggage yet.
bon voyage.
you are not listening to me.
diane!  alright, let's stop this right now.  let's not put our energy into something ridiculous.  this is not even smart thinking.
dad, why are you acting this way?  is this because of the other morning?
do you love him?
i like him a lot.
well listen to me.  now, i know you like him, i know he is nothing like those frat kids you can not stand, but honey, after the excitement wears off, then what, huh?  what are you going to talk about?  what do you have in common?  you are going to be part of an international think-tank, and he is going to be kicking punching bags.
unbelievable.  this is a nightmare.
diane, you owe it to yourself to get on that plane with no attachments, no strings, because after you get over there, things are going to change.  people change.
dad, you and i have talked about this.  lloyd and i have talked about this.  believe me, this is well-covered territory.
diane, I am not asking you to sever all relations with the boy. give him a present, here, let him know you still care.  give him this pen.
dad, in a million years, i would never give him a pen.  what is wrong with having some fun?  i like him.
'i like him'?  diane, I am talking about being honest with people, being decent...
dad, i love him.
check your mail tomorrow.  i sent you a letter, a letter.
your letter came yesterday.
it did?
uh-huh.  it was wonderful.
why did not you tell me?
it was wonderful.
I have never sent a letter like that, you know?  i mean, i felt like i wanted to tell you something, but i did not put it in the letter, and i did not say it, but i want to say it now, I am not sure if i should say it, you know, 'cause people always say it and do not mean it, but i think that i mean it, so, um, i just wanted to tell you...
no, we do not have to say it.
how do you know what I am going to say?
i do not know what you are going to say, but i think that...
i was just going to tell you that i love you.  i said it.
i know.  lloyd, let's not start putting things on this level.
what?  this is a good level, is not it?
how can i look at you and say this?
say what?
i think that we should spend some time apart.
what is wrong?
well, i need to study, and...
you need to study?
yeah.
okay, how much time do you need?  i mean, you know, i mean you will be leaving in a little while, so that is answered some questions.
we will see.
okay.  it is good knowing this.
yeah, uh-huh.
okay, what did we just decide?
we decided...
'cause I am worried, did you just break up with me?
no, no.
it sounded like you did.
no.  we decided that we are friends.  i mean, i know it is a terrible word...
well, if we are friends, why can not we see each other?
i think that we should stop going out on dates.
i feel like a dick.  you must think I am a dick.
no, i don't, i don't.
yeah you do.
lloyd, we shared the most intimate thing two people can share.
you shared it with a dick.
no i didn't.
is this because of your dad?
no.
did you talk to corey?
why, did you tell corey what happened?
she figured it out.  I am sorry if that upsets you.
no, that is fine.  she will tell everybody, but that is fine.
did you tell anybody?
just my dad.
you told your dad?
you have corey and dc.  i have my dad.
what, I am sorry i said that.  forget i said it, it is what i thought i meant, but forget it.
lloyd, i love you, okay?
what is that?  what are you doing with your hands?  talk to me, you are talking like that girl sheila.
do not be mean, this is hard for me too.
then do not do it.
oh shit.
hello constance.  it is me, lloyd... nothing, I am just driving around... she broke up with me... what do i do?  can not she come back?  how can i get her back?... i can not think, talk to me... i fucked up... i feel like crying... she gave me a pen.  i gave her my heart and she gave me a pen.
lloyd, honey, just come home, okay?
I will be home soon.
man, all you gotta do is find a girl who looks just like her, nail her, and then dump her man, get her off your mind.
your only mistake is that you did not dump her first.  diane court is a showpony.  you need a stallion, my friend.  walk with us and you walk tall.
later for you, luke.
i got a question.  if you guys know so much about women, how come you are here at like the gas 'n' sip on a saturday night completely alone, drinking beers, no women anywhere?
my car.
your car?
it is your castle, man.
man, you never had a chance with a girl like that.
hey man, i was in love once.  i got hurt really bad.  i never wanna go through that again.
man, you are bringing me down!
you are freaking out here man.
you have got to get her out of your head, man.
diane court.
dude, i can not do it!
that was a mistake.  the rain on my car is a baptism.  the new me.  iceman, power lloyd.  my assault on the world begins now. believe in myself, answer to no one... you probably got it all figured out, corey.  if you start out depressed, everything's kind of a pleasant surprise.
look, why do not you just call diane again?
i draw the line at seven un-returned phone calls.
lloyd, you have to understand her family is being ripped apart. like you and she were ripped apart.  like joe and i were ripped apart.
visit her at the home.
I am not going back there.  i do not even know who you are talking about.
lloyd, why do you have to be like this?
'cause I am a guy, i have pride.
no, you are not a guy.
i am.
the world is full of guys.  be a man.  do not be a guy.
if she wants me, she can come to me.
hi, lloyd.  this is my eighth and final call...
go ahead, pick it up if you want.
i just wanted to say that I have thought about everything, and I have decided something.  I am going to give you another chance.  maybe no one's listening, or maybe your father's listening.  mr court, if you are listening to this, hello, how are you?
if i pick it up, we will only get back together.
well then do not pick it up. you know what is best.
hi.
is it a gift for your wife?  are you getting a set together?
no, I am not married.  it is for my daughter.
for going to school?
yeah, she won a fellowship.
good for her.
I will take the whole set.
excellent.
thanks, i like yours too.
listen, i do not know your name, but what are you doing for lunch?
I am sorry, but they turned down your card.
oh yeah, let me give you another card.
okay, thanks.
keep it.
you are sure?
yeah, i do not want it.  um, thank you very much.  you are very kind.
dad, are you okay in there?
just finishing up in here.
I am supposed to be leaving on a fellowship that i worked for my entire life.  i do not even care.  i met this boy over the summer, and i, i can not see him because of this, i can not talk to him, i can not talk to my father about... i wore these clothes, i thought, i thought that if i looked right and if i acted right then someone would talk to me.  but i look awful and i feel awful, could you, could you please talk to me?  be a little decent.
we believe that your father operates in a large pool of cash that comes from phoney billings, phoney patients.  we have been investigating him for five years.  we believe that when they die, he takes their money.
pardon me?
look, why do not you check it out for yourself?  see if your father fits the profile.
what is the profile?
well, take a look around the house.  is everything nice, but not too nice?  are there lots of, uh, rugs, pieces of art, stereo equipment, uh, furniture, a lot of things bought with cash?  does he give a lot of gifts?  do the major items in your house cover around the nine thousand-dollar range?
you are trying to get me to say something, that is why you are telling me all of this.
do not let your father's business infect your life.
how can you, how can you say that?
because he is guilty.
no, no he is not.
we have records.  we have proof.  I am sorry to be the one to have to tell you this, but it is going to get worse.  now, if i were you, i would take that fellowship.
what happened to you?
dad, did you do it?  did you take that money?
sweetheart, no.  do not be ridiculous.
swear to god, i need to know the truth.
honey!
swear to god.
i swear to god.
but i found the money.
honey, it is not what you think.
what am i supposed to think?
honey, about what?
you stole from them, you lied to me.  how do you think that is supposed to make me feel?
you think you know what this money is?
yes, i...
no, you do not know what it is.  it is not for me.  this money's for you, for when you come back from england with honors to set you up, so you do not have to depend on anybody again.  diane, i take better care of these people than their families do.  i care for them, i give them flowers, i feed them, i wipe their mouths...
no, but you stole from them.
i made their lives better.
you let me believe you.  you knew you were guilty, and you let me become a part of it.  god, how... how could you...
alright, alright.  go ahead.  when I am old, give me someone like me, but go ahead.
i trusted you.  i stood up in court five years ago and i picked you.
why are you being so hateful to me?  is this because of lloyd?
no.  i told you everything, you lied to me.  i would have done anything for you.
that is right, work it out.
no, i will.  i do not want to leave something out because i know i can say anything to you.  you are a liar, and a thief.
take it easy how mad you make me, I am the only dad you have got.
I am so ashamed dad.
do not say that, it is not good for you.  you're...
you are right.
what do you want?
I am sorry.
what do you want?
my father's guilty.  he lied to me, he lied to everybody.  i just left home... i need you.
you do?
everything else means nothing to me.  if i hurt you again, I will die.
hurt me again?  not a chance, do not worry about it.
i love you.
what?
i love you.  how many more times do i have to say it?
one more time would be nice.
i love you.  please, i love you.
i can not give you that.  this guy's been ripping off grandma and grandpa for seventeen years.  he is been getting it from every end.  I would love to hear his story.
one hundred thousand dollar fine and three months?
one hundred and twenty-five thousand and nine months.
i can accept that.
and i want to turn the home over to the state.
he would like to start serving immediately.
i can put that together.
confirm this with my office and my client.
I will put this past my boss
alright.
she would not get out of the car.  i brought her all the way here, she said she was going to come here, and she would not get out of the car.  but i thought that is was important, that she come to see you, because i know that if you go somewhere and you do not deal with your family stuff, then you are just gonna, she is gonna, um...
are you going to england with her lloyd?
that is one of the things i wanted to talk to you about sir.
are you?
am i going?  am i going to england?  I have thought about this quite a bit, and I have realised what i probably should do is just carve out a goal for my future and find out what i wanna do with my life, do all the stuff that I have been avoiding in a big way. i mean, diane and i can wait for each other, right?  what is she gonna... she is going to run off with some english guy?  there is no way.
well lloyd, i admire you for not hitching a ride.  you know, my daughter's a lot different to you.
i know.
she is very successful.
i know
very talented.
i know.  but then i reconsidered.  'cause i figured out what i really wanna do with my life, what i want to do for a living is i wanna be with your daughter.  I am good at it.
you are not a permanent part of her life.  you are a distraction.
I am the distraction that is going to england with her sir.  are you alright sir?  are you okay?
I am incarcerated, lloyd!  i do not deserve to lose my daughter over this.  i do not deserve to have you as my go-between.  and i can not for the life of me figure out how she could choose to champion in mediocrity the way she flirts around you.
"you can not know the horrible disappointment i feel..."
i know this part, keep reading.
she can not still be angry at this, it is got to get better.
it does, it does if it is the version signed 'i still can not help loving you'.  read that.
just her name.
just knowing a person like that exists, knowing that for a minute that she felt that and wrote 'i still can not help loving you'. that is got to be a good thing, right?  that is got to be a good thing.
hello.
hi.
i do not know what to say to you, except goodbye.
I am fine.
okay, good, this is all very noble.
okay.
alright, high level air safety tips.  if anything happens, it will usually be in the first five minutes of the flight, right?
okay.
so when you hear the smoking sign go 'ding', you know everything's going to be okay.
good to know.
right, I am just going to keep talking until that ding happens, which is going to be soon.
okay.
alright, personalised flight care from corey.  books, cassettes, magazines, anything?
not right now, thanks.
how is it going?
nobody thought we would do this.  nobody really thinks it is going to work, do they?
no.  you just described every great success story.  alright, it is alright.
i know.
