i was just the accountant.
simple engineering, though, would not you think?  change the machines around, whatever you do, you could make other things, could not you?
once the war ends, forget it, but for now it is great, you could make a fortune. do not you think?
i think most people right now have other priorities.
get the contracts and I am sure you will do very well.  in fact the worse things get the better you will do.  it was a "pleasure."
the contracts?  that is the easy part. finding the money to buy the company, that is hard.
jews, yeah.  investors.
jews can no longer own businesses, sir, that is why this one's for sale.
well, they would not own it, I would own it. I would pay them back in product.  they can trade it on the black market, do whatever they want, everybody's happy.
pots and pans.
something they can hold in their hands.
i do not know anybody who would be interested in that.
they should be.
what is that?
you do not recognize it?  maybe that is because it is not what i asked for.
you asked for shoe polish.
my buyers sold it to a guy who sold it to the army.  but by the time it got there - because of the cold - it broke, the whole truckload.
so I am responsible for the weather?
i asked for metal, you gave me glass.
this is not my problem.
look it up.
like this?
there is nothing in the stores.
you have any idea what a shirt like this costs?
nice things cost money.
how many?
i do not know, ten or twelve.  that is a good color.  dark blues, grays.
ghetto police.  I am a policeman now, can you believe it?
yeah, i can.
what was that about the ss, the rate, the ... ?
the jewish worker's salary, you pay it directly to the ss, not to the worker. he gets nothing.
but it is less.  it is less than what i would pay a pole.  that is the point I am trying to make.  poles cost more.
I would never ask you for money, you know that. i do not even like talking about it - money, favors - i find it very awkward, it makes me very uncomfortable -
no, look.  it is the others.  they are the ones causing these delays.
what others?
whoever.  they are the ones.  they would appreciate some kind of gesture from me.
that would be fine.
done.  lets not talk about it anymore, let's have a good time.
you know what, you would like her.
oskar, please -
what -
i do not have to like her just because you do.  it does not work that way.
you would, though.  that is what I am saying.
it is not a charade, all this?
a charade?  how could it be a charade?
luck.
war.
what?
i feel like an old-fashioned couple. it feels good.
should i stay?
it is a beautiful city.
should i stay?
it is up to you.
how you feeling, all right?
yeah.
what is the matter, everything all right at home?  mila's okay?
she is good.
i could try to read this or i could eat my lunch while it is till hot.  we are doing well?
yes.
better this month than last?
yes.
any reason to think next month will be worse?
the war could end.
what?
there is a machinist outside who would like to thank you personally for giving him a job.
i want to thank you, sir, for giving me the opportunity to work.
you are welcome, I am sure you are doing a great job.
the ss beat me up.  they would have killed me, but I am essential to the war effort, thanks to you.
that is great.
i work hard for you.  I will continue to work hard for you.
that is great, thanks.
god bless you, sir.
yeah, okay.
you are a good man.
do not ever do that to me again.
do what?
it is got nothing to do with reality, oskar, i know it and you know it, it is a matter of national priority to these guys.  it is got a ritual significance to them, jews shoveling snow.
i lost a day of production.  i lost a worker.  i expect to be compensated.
file a grievance with the economic office, it is your right.
would it do any good?
no.
a one-armed machinist, oskar?
he was a metal press operator, quite skilled.
you try to be fair to people, they walk out the door;  I have never understood that.  what is next?
christmas presents.
ah, yes.
he is essential.  without him, everything comes to a grinding halt.  if that happens -
itzhak stern?  he is on the list.
he is.
well, let's find him.
he is on the list.  if he were an essential worker, he would not be on the list. he is on the list.  you can not have him.
I am talking to a clerk.
what is your name?
sir, the list is correct.
i did not ask you about the list, i asked you your name.
klaus tauber.
the gentleman thinks a mistake's been made.
my plant manager is somewhere on this train. if it leaves with him on it, it will disrupt production and the armaments board will want to know why.
we started without you.
good.
you know, they told me you were going to be trouble - czurda and scherner.
you are kidding.
he looks great, though, does not he? i have to know - where do you get a suit like that?  what is that, silk?  it is great.
I would say I would get you one but the guy who made it, he is probably dead, i do not know.
i go to work the other day, there is nobody there.  nobody tells me about this, i have to find out, i have to go in, everybody's gone -
they are not gone, they are here.
they are mine!
every day that goes by, I am losing money. every worker that is shot, costs me money - i have to get somebody else, i have to train them -
we are going to be making so much money, none of this is going to matter -
it is bad business.
some of the boys went crazy, what are you going to do?  you are right, it is bad business, but it is over with, it is done.  occasionally, sure, okay, you got to make an example.  but that is good business.
scherner told me something else about you.
yeah, what is that?
that you know the meaning of the word gratitude.  that it is not some vague thing with you like with some guys.
true.
do you have any idea what is involved? the paperwork alone?  forget you got to build it all, getting the fucking permits, that is enough to drive you crazy.  then the engineers show up.  they stand around and they argue about drainage - I am telling you, you will want to shoot somebody, I have been through it, i know.
well, you have been through it.  you know. you could make things easier for me.
it is true.  never happen in cracow, though, we all love you too much.
i pay you too much.
you held back stern.  you held back the one man most important to my business.
he is important to my business.
what do you want for him, I will give it to you.
i want him.  come on, let's go inside, let's have a good time.
this, i do not know, maybe you can trade it for something.
thank you.
i got to go, I will see you.
oskar -
you think i do not know what you are doing? you are so quiet all the time?  i know.
are you losing money?
no, I am not losing money, that is not the point.
what other point is -
it is dangerous.  it is dangerous, to me, personally.
you have to understand, goeth's under enormous pressure.  you have to think of it in his situation.  he is got this whole place to run, he is responsible for everything that goes on here, all these people - he is got a lot of things to worry about.  and he is got the war. which brings out the worst in people.  never the good, always the bad.  always the bad. but in normal circumstances, he would not be like this.  he would be all right.  there would be just the good aspects of him.  which is a wonderful crook.  a guy who loves good food, good wine, the ladies, making money...
and killing.
I will admit it is a weakness.  i do not think he enjoys it.  all right, he does enjoy it, so what? what do you expect me to do about it?
there is nothing you can do.  I am not asking you to do anything.  you came into my office.
I will talk to him.
i think it is too late.
well, I will talk to somebody.  I will take care of it.
what is he done that is so bad - take money? that is a crime?  come on, what are we here for, to fight a war?  we are here to make money, all of us.
there is taking money and there is taking money, you know that.  he is taking money.
the place produces nothing.  i should not say that - nothing it produces reaches the army.  that is not all right.
so I will talk to him about it.
he is a friend of yours, you want to help him out. tell me this, though - has he ever once shown you his appreciation?  I have yet to see it. never a courtesy.  never a thank you note.  he forgets my wife at christmas time -
he is got no style, we all know that. so, we should hang him for it?
he is stealing from you, oskar.
of course he is stealing from me, we are in business together.  what is this?  I am sitting here, suddenly everybody's talking like this is something bad.  we take from each other, we take from the army, everybody uses everybody, it works out, everybody's happy.
he does not deserve your loyalty.  more important, he is not worth you making threats against us.
did i threaten anybody here?  i stated a simple fact.
i tried to call you, I am running a little late, this is taking longer than i thought.  have a drink.
what is going on?
i got a shipment of hungarians coming in, i got to make room for them.  it is always something.
you took my workers.
they are taking mine.  when i said they did not have a future i did not mean tomorrow.  auschwitz.
when?
i do not know.  soon.
oskar - my friend lena.
how do you do?  what can i get you, what are you drinking?
nothing's changed.  then again, something has changed, has not it?
things worked out.  i made some money over there, had some laughs, you know. it was good.
now you are back.
now I am back, and you know what I am going to do now?  I am going to have a good time.  so are you.
you want these people.
these people, my people, i want my people.
what are you, moses?  what is this? where is the money in this?  what is the scam?
it is good business.
oh, this is "good business" in your opinion. you have got to move them, the equipment, everything to czechoslovakia - it does not make any sense.
look -
you are not telling me something.
it is good for me - i know them, I am familiar with them.  it is good for you - you will be compensated.  it is good for the army.  you know what I am going to make?  artillery shells.  tank shells. they need that.  everybody's happy.
yeah, sure.
if you admit to making three, then it is four, actually.  but how?
i just told you.
you did, but you didn't.
yeah, all right, do not tell me, I will go along with it, it is just irritating to me i can not figure it out.
all you have to do is tell me what it is worth to you.  what is a person worth to you.
four hundred, four fifty -
more.
eight hundred, give or take.
give or take what, stern - how many - count them.
hey, poldek, how is it going?  you know about the list?  you are on it.
of course I am on it.
you want to stay on it?  what do you got for me?
what do i got for you?
takes diamonds to stay on this list.
your friend amon goeth has been arrested.
I am sorry to hear that.
there are some things that are unclear. we need to talk.
I would love to, it will have to wait until i get back.  i have to leave.
all right, okay, let's talk.
in breslau.
breslau?  i can not go to breslau.  not now.
that is very generous of you.
yes.
what is wrong with it?
how should i know?  it is broken. see what you can do.
we need to talk.
stern.
they arrived.
they arrived, can you believe it?
well, that is to be expected.  they have to understand.  these are start-up problems. this is not pots and pans, this is a precise business.  I will write them a letter.
they are withholding payment.
well, sure.  so would i.  so would you. i would not worry about it.  we will get it right one of these days.
there is a rumor you have been going around miscalibrating the machines.  i do not think that is a good idea.
no?
i know what you are saying, but i do not see the difference.
you don't?  i do.  i see a difference.
you will lose money.
oskar, good of you to come.
are you kidding, i never miss a party. police chief rasch, my wife emilie.
how do you do?
thank you.
i need a drink.
oh, god, you do not have a drink?
wine?
one of these days the russians are going to show up unannounced at my gate.  I would like the chance to defend myself.  I would like my wife to have that chance.  my civilian engineers. my secretary.
we are losing the war, are not we.
it kind of looks that way.
pistols?
pistols, rifles, carbines ...  I would be grateful.
I will talk to you later.
no, no, what, what is it?
where are the guards?
the guards are not allowed on the factory floor. they make my workers nervous.
i could have got more ... if I would just ... i do not know, if I would just ... i could have got more...
oskar, there are twelve hundred people who are alive because of you.  look at them.
if I would made more money ...i threw away so much money, you have no idea. if I would just ...
there will be generations because of what you did.
i did not do enough.
you did so much.
good.  how is it going?
things are great, things are great.
what are you doing?
I am having a drink, come on in, we will have a drink.
i mean where have you been? nobody's seen you around for a while.
I have been here.  i guess i have not been out.
i thought maybe you would like to come over, have some dinner, some of the people are coming over.
yeah?  yeah, that would be nice, let me get my coat.
