no, jennifer love hewitt. of course it is me, silly. and i feel like an ass standing in this theater lobby all by myself. where are you babe, the movie starts in twenty minutes.
look, I am stuck on the freeway. i think there was some big accident. it could be a little while so i do not want you to start freaking if i do not get there at exactly,  eight thirty.
all I am saying is I am going to be royally p.o.'d if you do not catch my acting debut.
oh i would not miss it for the world. i bet you did such a great job.
i did. hon, although i got a total of six minutes screen time, they are the best six minutes of the movie.
heh heh i bet they are babe. i bet they are. look, my battery's dying . . .
jesus.  hello?
hello.
who is this?
who is this?
well what number are you trying to reach?
i do not know.
i think you got the wrong number, buddy.
do i?
uh-huh. look bro, my battery is running out. really wish i could chat, but i can not so, later.
wait, wait. do not hang up.
asshole, can not talk.
but your voice sounds so familiar.
you almost sound like that guy from there is something about carrie. ben. ben damon.
well ya got me. that is me. I am ben damon.
really? you are such a talented actor.
thanks.
now let's see you act your way out of this one.
what do you mean?
i mean, I am standing right outside the ladies room door at the plaza theater. your girlfriend christine is in there.  she is all alone. everyone's in the auditorium waiting for the film to start.  I have got my knife.
listen you sick fuck, is this your idea of a joke?
more of a game really.
what kind of a game?
you seem to be familiar with the stab movies. here's how we play. i ask you a question. you get it right, your girlfriend lives. you answer wrong, she dies.
i swear to god if you lay a finger on her I will fucking kill you!
maybe so, but right now, we play the game. first question, your girlfriend's counting on you, name your girlfriend's character in stab 2?
it is cici! cici's the name of the character she plays in the movie!
very good. now we play round 2.
what?! but i did everything you said to do!
that is right. and you beat round 1. now we are taking the game to a whole new level.  meet me beneath the hollywood sign in ten minutes. I will have your girlfriend. we will be waiting.
what?!
good bye ben.
you are not playing by the rules ben. do not you want her to live?
i swear to god if you lay one hand on her!
no! you listen to me, if you are not where i want you in fifteen minutes I will hollow her out. do you understand?
yeah.
very good. you follow directions well. now for the final part of the game. put down the bat and approach the sign, slowly.
where are you?
closer than you think.
alright I am here. what the fuck do you want from me?
to see your reaction.
reaction to what?
good morning gale. pleasure to be here.
it is a pleasure to finally meet you, roman.
well it is a honor to be here amongst so many fans of the genre. and i must say that any of you worried that jerry rapp, or tori or david not returning to complete the stab trilogy, have no fear, roman is here. aided with my excellent cast of newcomers i believe we are going to pull off one of the best stabs yet.
roman, from your enthusiasm it certainly seems that way.  honestly though,  tell us, what's	your favorite scary movie?
honestly, my life.
your life?
well if you were in my shoes, dealing with those big time sunrise studio producers like i do on a daily basis, you would watch how quick your life goes from a walt disney picture to a tobe hooper flick.
would you excuse me for a moment?
sure.
jesus christ you scared the shit out of me.
I am sorry miss weathers. allow me to introduce myself, mark kincaid, l.a.p.d.  are you familiar with the actor ben damon, or the actress christine perkins?
well i interviewed damon once for the show. he was a real obnoxious fuck. any way, the second one, christine perkins, she had a part in stab 2, did not she? she was playing cici.
both of them were found brutally murdered this morning under the hollywood sign. autopsy reports having come back to me yet but the bodies looked like something out one of the stab films.
so is that why you are here? is that why you are holding me from my show, to tell me about some brutal homicide I am not even involved in?
i wish that was all miss weathers, but there is more. the killer left a note.
a note?
that is sidney prescott's mother.
there is more.
I have tried to get in touch with sidney prescott, but she is keeping herself very well hidden. you are my one and only hope in finding her. her life may be in grave danger.
I would love to help, really i would not mind being sliced at again by a maniacal psychopath, but i honestly do not know where sidney is. after windsor she dropped off the face of the earth. the only other person that might know is, , not going to talk.
and who would that be?
goddamnit i am getting so fed up with these re-writes. it is like every five minutes there is a new script. god, and you just know this all because of stab 2's script winding up on the internet two months after it wrapped shooting.
and still the film is number one at the box office this weekend. beat out american pasty and arlington street.
i think jeff bridges is getting tired.
nah i think it is doing so damn well because one of it is players got iced. i just hope none of us end up dead.
oh that is right. those poor poor people. god ben damon was such a hottie.
and that cici chick was not that bad either but I am really concerned about my safety now.
what are you talking about? the murders were a completely isolated incident.
scene 32. int. candy's living room - night. "what are you talking about ricky, the murders were a completely isolated incident".
would you give that script a rest? it is like a friggen umbilical cord to you.
I am just saying, though. what if there is someone out there stalking actors? huh? then what?
there is always someone out there stalking actors. look at that woman from the commish.
melinda mcgraw?
no, the other one. the one who played his wife.
mr. rielly? my name is mark kincaid. I am with the l.a.p.d. are you aware	of last night's events?
yeah. a real tragedy.
dewey, personal lives and pasts aside, this is about sidney. we need to know where she is.
what so you can just exploit her again with another book? sid does not need you gale.
show him.
that is fine mr. rielly, but if anyone else should die, I am going to have to get a warrant.
understood.  if you will excuse me detective.  gale.
excuse me detective, i think we have some business to attend to.
gale weathers?! what are you doing here? no press on the set!  no press, no press on set! get that woman out of here.
well then, i guess I will be leaving then.
oh come on! why the hostility?
listen lois lane, i love your show and all but last month i happened to catch your little segment on me and how my wife left me because I am a sex addict who enjoys screwing fifteen year old girls. it was a real eye opener my lawyers are still thinking about bringing to your superior's attentions.
they are the ones who approved it.
alright kincaid, no where to?
i go to the police station and do my job, and you go back to being gale weathers.
oh. i thought you wanted me to stick around.
look, miss weathers, if there is a problem, give me a call. here's my card. I am always there.
hello?
yes, hi I am laura, I am a trained counselor. how can i help you.
laura i think i just killed somebody.
are you sure?
uh-huh I am sure. I have killed someone! oh my god I have actually killed someone!
well then the people you need to call are the police.
no i need to call you. just you.
I am sorry, your voice.
do not you want to know how you can help, sidney?  are you listening to me, huh?
who the fuck is this?
it is mother, sidney, now be a good girl and turn on the news. do it!
do you think it is over sidney? do you?
w-what do you want?
i want to finish what i started. i want to finish the game.
you sick fuck I am tracing this call as we speak! the police are going to nail your ass!
let them try. you will never find me. I have already gotten away with murder before. for instance, maureen prescott.
no. you did not kill my mother. billy loomis and stu macher did.
heh. so you think sidney. so you think. it is all been building up to this sid. every stab. every scream. every ounce of blood that is been spilled has all been leading up to this moment. welcome tothe final act.
the final act? well let's play asshole!
no. we play in my court this time. come to hollywood. stab 3's going to cutting corners cast-wise.  and I have got my eyes set on a technical advisor named dewey rielly.
if you lay a hand on him I will fucking kill you!
great. a spirited one. I will be seeing you real soon sidney. real soon.
roman and everybody else went home for the night. I am here for a make-up test.
make-up. you need it.  hey, roman is not here?
no.
damn. he called my roommate and told her he had some important things he wanted to go over with me in his office tonight.
oh shit.  hello? director's office.
sarah, it is roman, I am sorry I am running late, I am still on the 405, I am about 10 minutes away.
oh it is no problem, I am just... looking at your   music video awards.
all right, since i got you on the phone, let's talk about your character.
what character?  I am candy, the chick who gets killed second.  I am only in two scenes!
you are not happy with your part.
I am not happy that I am 35 playing a 21 year old. I am not happy that i have to die naked!  and I am not happy that my character is too stupid not to have a gun in the house after her boyfriend's been cut into mcnuggets.
um hmm...  umhmm great, so let's run the lines.
huh, fine.
page 22, candy's big moment.
page 22..  ring ring.  hello?
hello.
who is this?
who is this?
this is candy.  hang on, let me get some clothes. see!  i don't' understand why i have to start the scene in the shower!  the whole shower things been done, 'vertigo' hello!  and i mean, my boyfriend just died, why am i showering?
why do not we just read the scene?  candy, is that like candy cane or candy apple?
whatever.  come on, who is this?  i think you have the wrong number.
but you know my favorite name?
I am hanging up right now.
it is sarah.
roman that is not the line.
it is in my script.
has there been another goddamn rewrite? how  the fuck are we supposed to learn our lines when there is a new script every 15 minutes?
it is not just a new script, it is a new movie.
what?  what movie?
my movie.
that is stab 3, miss weathers. it looks like we are going to be getting a warrant to speak with miss prescott anyway.
shit. sarah darling.  i interviewed her too. god, it is happening again is not it detective?
yes well we have a suspect, so do not get that worried.
who?
I am not at liberty to tell you that miss weathers. you are no longer working with the l.a.p.d. i do not even know why you are standing in here right now. by all means i should have you thrown out.
but you won't. you are a good man detective. we think alike. i know you need my help. and i know you know i need your help.
in my fifteen years as a homicide detective I have never met a single soul as pushy and brazen as you are miss weathers.
please, call me gale.
deal, but I am still detective kincaid,ok?
they found another note?
uh-huh. another news clipping. another one about sid's mom. dewey, whether we like it  or not it looks like we are going to have to  go back into our past.
you mean our past as in me and sid. this has nothing to do with you gale.
this has everything to do with me dewey. i was the one who brought the nation's attention to this shit anyway. I will be damned if I am going to sit around and pass on the buck again.
do you really mean it this time gale?
yes. look, let's get something straight dewey, i got into this shit cause the police came looking for me. not cause I am out to make the sunrise studios slashings.
why would the police come to you?
again, i am the author of the definitive book on the woodsboro murders.!  what about you?
what about me?
you said you would never leave woodsboro, 'the only place that is real!'  but now you are here. not with me.  dewey, i took care of you.  i waited until you were well.  i could not stay there, i mean, it is like dog years, one year in woodsboro is like seven everywhere else.
so it is off to london for a week?  new york for a month? l.a forever?
it was fucking '60 minutes ii'!  i could not say no!  i could have been the next diane sawyer!
what is wrong with just being gale weathers? i liked her!
it did not work dewey.  we tried,  we are different.
you used to say that was our strength.
dewey, you are not just here because of that second rate k-mart, straight-to-video version of me, are you?
brace yourself, gale, all of this is actually not about you.
all of what dewey?  you do know something, do not you?
off the record.
always.
two months ago, the woodsboro police got a call from a woman who said she was with 'stab 3'.  she wanted to see the file on sid, for research.
and?
the boys said no.  she would not give her name. a month later, the station gets broken into, the file room ransacked.
someone stole sid's file?
i already removed it.  i think someone on the film was trying to find sid, and that is the only reason i came here. to make do a little private investigating of my own and make sure no one here was planning anything.
I am sorry, this is too good!
what part of 'off the record' do not you understand?
right. sorry.  do you think he did it?
I have got my suspicions but still, nothing  you say can ever make me take my eyes off one person.
and who is that?
jennifer needs me.
jennifer?! wait, where are you going off to?
I am on duty.
stop following me.
i happen to work for the police god dammit!
you are not a detective.
neither are you, magnum p.i.
gale, your engine's still running.
fuck!
gale weathers. what a surprise.
tom prinze, tanked as usual. that is a shocker.
hey i really liked that piece you did on me last month. the one where you said my car accident was caused by me drinking and drugs, and how i faked the tire blow-out just so my insurance would not sky rocket.
heh, well, that is tv journalism for ya. stage the news to boost ratings.
really, cause that stunt lost me the lead role in roman polanski's latest picture. huh, what a coincide i was picked up by roman bridger. well, not exactly the roman i wanted. get my point? stab 3 is bullshit. fuck, because of your big mouth I am here, drinking piss water scotch with second rate fucking celebrities like jennifer jollie and yourself!  hey, i just got an idea. maybe i should have a look at your break line. that your car over there?
i think we should go inside. i have to have a talk with the cast. all of you.
you mean what is left of us.  yeah I am running on empty anyways. got to refuel.
you! how can i ever get any fame playing you!
dewey, what the hell is she rambling about now? what is wrong jen, see yourself on one of those usa network winners you did and realize how badly you suck at acting?
god damn you gale weathers! do not you see? the killer is choosing  his victims as they die in the script! ben damon's character was the first one to get offed. so was his girlfriend - but she was not cast yet so his real girlfriend was killed - then sarah darling's candy, and now me!
wait a second, whoa! calm down! number one there were five different versions of the script given out. ben damon was given a fake script because he was only being offered the role. it only had fragments of real scenes from the actual script. and what, i die in stab 3?
and i die naked?!  ugh! this is complete bullshit. who wrote this piece of crap?
i know right. it was kinda weak. that is cause will kennison only wrote a rough treatment of it. the script was written by some new guy. he wrote arlington street.
still that was a much better movie, i saw it at the premiere last week. god, what the hell am i getting sidetracked with this shit for?! we have got to get down to business.
shit! where the hell are tom and angelina?
i do not know. screw them. look, what is important is that we stick together. no matter what. if anyone is next it is you or me jen.
do not worry. I am prepared for anything.
amen boy scout, now answer the fucking door!
who is phone?
oh shit it is my cell!
listen you sick bastard, what the fuck do you want?
what is your favorite scary movie gale?
i dunno but i can tell you that your's will be the home video footage of me sticking my foot up your ass! now come out and fight like a real man you pussy!
god damn it you two! run! hurry! he is dead!
no! he is not dead! he is still breathing! look!
oh. oh god. gale --
what?
gale behind you!
whoever it is, now is taking credit for maureen prescott's murder.
but we know who killed maureen prescott, billy loomis and stu macher.  i mean, they even told sidney how they did it!
yeah, but, if I am not mistaken, you said in your book that sidney got it wrong before. she accused cotton weary of murdering her mother, and he was sent away for it!  maybe there is a third killer.  sidney might know something
i told you, i do not know where sidney is. and even if there was a third killer, sidney does not know about it.
that is for me to decide.  i need to talk to her mr. riley, she is a key element in this case.  i have a press conference in an hour, and i need to explain why there are four dead celebrities.
four? there are five.
ben damon. christine perkins. sarah darling. tom prinze. that is four, last time i learned how to count.
what about angelina tyler? she was there too.
police are still searching through the debris. could be days before we find her . . . that is, if she is even there.
ok, look.  we all know that this has something to do with 'stab 3'.  what we do not know is why the killer keeps leaving articles about maureen prescott.
actually, there was more this time. this time, we found a picture too.
before you jump to conclusions, the man in the picture, cotton weary, is out of the country on business. his alibi checks out. seems he is got a tv show in australia, 100% cotton. it is supposedly the biggest thing down under since yahoo serious, but that is besides the point.
what does this have to do with sid?
who knows more about maureen prescott than her own daughter?
well sid's dad could not help you and he was married to maureen.
is that a threat, detective?
when it is a threat, you will know it.
is that a threat?
boys, boys, why do not we compare our gun calibers later?  the issue is maureen prescott!
wrong, this issue is sidney prescott!  and either mr. riley is going to obstruct justice or is going to put me in touch with her.  so, where is she?
what are you doing here? i told you to stay hidden! it is not safe for you up here.
well it is not safe for me up there either. the killer found me dewey. he called me last night.
what?
i figured I would be safe if i was at least up here with the people i care about.  now where is this kincaid guy the news is talking about? i found this place from a fox 5 tv news report. heh.
follow me.
detective kincaid?
what rielly?
there is someone here who wants to help.
oh my god! sidney, you ran fast or what?  hey.
hi, gale. I am glad you are all right.
thank you.
sid, this is detective kincaid.
nice to finally meet you, sidney.
the killer called her.
what?  when?
what did he say?
oh, you know, the usual small talk, "what's new, how ya been, how do you want to die?"
sidney, do you have any idea how he could have gotten your number?
he could have monitored the calls on a scanner. did you call her from the set?
no.
do you have her number stored in your memory?  phone memory!
oh.  yeah, i guess i do.
has anyone else every used your phone?
just jennifer.  and you.
the killer leaves a newspaper clipping at each murder, sidney. recently he is also left a photo of your mother.
why did not you tell me?  this is my mother, dewey. why did not you say something?
i was afraid they were bait, something to, ya know,  trick you out of hiding.
listen, detective, i wanna see this studio where all this shit's going down.
are you sure?
absolutely.
alright sid, over there is the stab 3 production offices. that is where sarah darling was murdered last night.
mm, what a waste of silicone.  what does my mother have to do with this all dewey? we are a long way from woodsboro.
oh my god karen you scared the shit out of me! what are you doing here?
who is this.
karen colcheck. from woodsboro.
she was randy's only girlfriend . . . ever.
I have got an idea, I will hook up with you guys later.
do you want us to come with you?
i work better alone.  why do not you do some snooping around the set?
i can see nothing's changed.
no.
geez.
what the hell are you doing?
being gale weathers.  what the hell are you doing?
i am gale weathers!
here's how i see it.  I have got no house, no movie, no gun, and I am being stalked.  because someone wants to kill me?  no, because someone wants to kill you. so now, starting now, i go where you go.  that way, if someone wants to kill me, I will be with you, and since they really want to kill you, they will not kill me, they will kill you.  make sense?
none.
you know in the movies, i play you as being much smarter.
and as a sane person.  for you that must be quite a stretch.
that is funny.
ha. maybe i should join snl.
need to get in that building?
no really?
there a story in that building?
possibly.
gale weathers would find a way.
basements creep me out.
really, you know you would make a fascinating interview. lifestyles of the rich and psychotic.
look who is talking moneybags. you got more homes than i do.
oh i wish i got that one on tape. it would put a smile on my face everytime I am down.
bitch.
can i help you?
I am gale weathers, author of the woodsboro and windsor college murders, and anchorwoman for total entertainment. maybe you have heard of me?
i do not watch tv and i hate books. whatta you need?
does the name maureen prescott sound familiar to you?
nope.
well can you tell me if the woman in this picture looks familiar to you.
listen, I am busy. nobody has access to those files except studio execs. can you please go away now?
well if you will not work for me, will you work for the president?
i know every face in here, respect for the unknown actor i suppose, myself included. if you are looking for maureen prescott --
it may be maureen reynolds --
well you will find neither. rina reynolds, however, you will.
what are these movies? 'amazombies', 'space psychos' 'creatures from thesan andreas fault'?
horror flicks. b-movies from milton's heyday.
listen dewey i have to go to the bathroom.
do you want me to come with you sid? i mean, remember what randy said?
no I will be ok. I have got my mace. my knife.  these two lethal weapons.
do not worry, I have got a permit for it.
jesus christ dewey help me! they tried to kill me in the bathroom! the killers!
sidney, what happened?
nevermind, what did you two find?
we did some researching in the archives. sid, something dawned on me when i wrote the book on your mother's murder. for two years of her life, 1969 up until 1971 she basically disappeared off the face of the earth.
what are you talking about?
jesus christ sidney, what happened? i got a call on my cell from home. they told me that someone was attacked.
and what made you think it was sidney?
sid, get in my car. you are coming back to the station with me where it is safe.
so you knew sidney prescott's mother.
just what the hell do you people think you are doing, barging in here like this? I have got important calls to make. i run this studio.
answer the question. you knew sidney's mom?
who?
nobody said she was an actor.
good twist.
what is your point?
no point, I am just going to give detective kincaid a call.
i remember her!  she was a bit player in a couple of my movies. a nobody! so what does it matter?
oh, come on!  you have made millions off the story of her murder.  you are obsessed with her and you are obsessed with her daughter!
settle down beavis.  why do not you tell us the truth?
what the hell are you guys getting at?  i make horror films, that is what i do.  the studio came to me with 'stab'.  they came to me, check it out.
but you know who she was.
when we did the first 'stab" i realized I would known maureen prescott before, i mean as rina. i could not tell anyone.  can you imagine the press?
and now? i mean, murders on your set and still you say nothing?
get real, that would make me a suspect!
just because you knew her?
yeah.
i do not think so!  just what happened to maureen when she was in hollywood?
now you listen to me, lois lane, let it go. it is dead and buried. daddy took old yeller out behind the barn and shot him in the head a long time ago.
well how would you like his rotten carcass dug up and drug all over national tv? why do not you start talking.
it was in the 70's, everything was different. i was well known for my parties, rina knew what they were. it was for girls like her to meet men, men who could get them parts, if they made the right impression.  nothing happened to her that she did not invite, in one way or another, no matter what she said afterwards.
are you saying she was-
I am saying things got out of hand.  maybe they did take advantage of her!.  maybe the sad truth is, this is not the city for innocence.  no charges were brought.  and the bottom line is, rina reynolds would not play by the rules.  you wanna get ahead in hollywood, you got to play the game, or go home.
what do you know about trilogies?
you mean like, movie trilogies?
you seem to like movies, detective.
call me mark, would you?  cause I am going to keep calling you sidney.
I will call you mark when you catch the killer, detective.
all i know about movie trilogies is in the third one, all bets are off.
did you request this case?
no, they tend to put me on the ones that deal with the business.  i grew up here, and i know my way around the studios.
must be exciting, beautiful place, beautiful people.
to me hollywood is about death.
excuse me?
I am a homicide detective, remember?  when you see what i see day in and day out, the violence that people do to each other, you get haunted. i think you know about that.
what do you mean?
i know what it is like to see ghosts that do not go away.  to be watching a scary movie in your head, whether you want to or not,  watching it alone.
ghosts are tough,  you can not shoot ghosts.
can not arrest ghosts.  but the best way to stop being haunted is to be with people.  you are here, you are not hiding, you have done the right thing, miss prescott.
hmm.
what did you know about your mother?
i used to think i had the perfect mom, perfect family.  till i found out i was wrong.  she had a secret life, and i tried to understand that, and soon as i thought i had, more secrets.  i don't' know who my mom was.  sometimes i feel like I am just learning about my mother for the first time. you know, with tv and those movies and what not. god sometimes i feel like I am just learning about myself for the first time. like I am watching my life instead of living in it.
here's the deal, I am off to search the soundstage. that is good news.
how is that good news?
because, that means that we are dealing with an ordinary, flesh and blood killer.  and i know how to handle guys like that.
oh yeah, how?
catch him, or kill him.
i think milton's the killer. i think he just went out to kill another cast member.
milton's not a killer. he is a pervert. he probably went out to buy more ky jelly for his jack -off parties he has with his two best friends.
rob reiner and quentin tarentino?
do you get any of my witty humor? i mean, you did play me for three movies.  his two hands, dingus.
paternity test results. christ dewey, you are never going to believe who milton's kid is.
who is it?
jesus gale what happened?
he killed milton! the killer's  inside there! oh god!  dewey! dewey's in there too! he needs medical help! he is hurt!
alright, calm down. I am going to radio in for backup right now.
{ a click } i only her you too, sidney.
who is this?
the question is not who i am.  the question is, who is with me.
do not do it!  if you do one thing to attract attention, one thing, I will kill them both. now, do you have somewhere we can be alone?
yes.
go there.
always hard being friends with you, sidney. when you are friends with sidney, you die! well these friends do not have to, sidney. it is up to you.
how do i know their voices are --
are real?  how do you know you are not hearing things? how do you know I am not someone in your head? somewhere, you know.
you are dead!
i do not want them, i want you!  it is simple. you show yourself, they survive, you run, they die!
where?
she would have been so happy, sidney, to know we would be together.
where?
I will call you, when you are on your way.
yeah?
you follow directions good. now let's wrap this production. go to the sunrise studios backlot. I will call you when you get there.
alright, I am here. now what?
you are doing real good. can not you figure it out? i wanna finish this where it all began. woodsboro.
i thought you wanted me here?
alright I am here, now show your  face so we can finish this.
it is good to see you again sidney. i was growing real impatient. go ahead. explore. I will catch up with you later.
yeah?
help me sid! the killer's got me!
dewey?! ohmigod! where are you?!
sid i can see you!
where are you dewey?
I am out back. tied up. hurry sid! the killer's looking for you! quick untie me!
gale he is got dewey!
i know! he killed kincaid!
i know!
let's get out of here!
gale watchout!
where is gale?
they have got her!
sid i want you to stay here! I will be right back! I am not going to let them get gale!
roman bridger, director. and brother.  she slammed the door in my face, sid. said i was rina's child and rina was dead. and it struck me, what a good idea! so i watched her, made a little home movie, a little family film. seems maureen, mom, really got around. i mean, cotton weary was one thing, everybody knew about that, but billy's father, that was the key! your boyfriend did not like seeing his daddy in my movies. did not like it at all. and once i supplied the motive, all the kid needed was a few pointers. have a partner to sell out in case you get caught, find someone to frame, it was like her was making a movie.
all the nightmares. all the hell i went through was because of you, you spineless bastard!
I am a director sid, i direct. for example, angelina over there,  she is my partner. i can convince her to do anything.  we have been dating since i met her in woodsboro.
oh my god, angie crick? from english class?
listen, i have no time for this. I have heard this shit before! so lets get on with it!
wait a second sid. do not you go jumping the gun. you have not seen the best part.  with the aides of the computer revolution of y2ki've been able to steal your voice.  am not it cool? listen to what the police are going to find next to your lifeless, mutilated body.
i can not take it anymore. this hollywood exploitation of the nightmare i lived has to be stopped. i did this to make you all repent for your sins, and now I am pleased I have got my message across. good-bye.
see sid, now comes the part where we get away with it! the part where we win! cause face it sidney, in this world, the bad guys win!
roman knock it off! do you people even know why you kill people? you kill people cause you choose to and not because of any other fucking reason!
dewey my god i thought you were dead.
do not worry sid I would never leave you like that.
dewey! it is gale!
watch out sid. randy said the killer's always superhuman.
he was not superhuman dewey. he was not superhuman at all.
gale, i know this is a bad time and all but what if we try it out again. the whole relationship thing.
sure, why not. you did save my life,mr. rielly.
