neighbors heard them screaming at each other for like two hours.  it was nothing new.  but, then they heard the gun go off. both barrels.
did the wife confess?
when the patrolman came she was trying put his head back together.  she was crying too hard to say anything.
why always like this?  only after the fact... this sudden realization, that if you shoot someone, or stick a knife in them, that person will cease to exist.
crime of passion.
yes.  look at all the passion splattered up on the wall here.
this is a done deal.  all but the paperwork.
did their son see it happen?
i do not know.
I am a little thrown.  i just got in town like twenty minutes ago and they dumped me here.
since we are just starting out, i thought we could go to a bar... sit and talk for awhile.  after that, we'll...
actually, if it is all the same, I would like to get to the precinct house a.s.a.p.  seeing how we do not have much time for this whole transition thing.
i need to start getting the feel of it all, right?  meet the people.
i meant to ask you something, mills, when we spoke on the phone.  i can not help wondering... why here?
i... i do not follow.
all this effort you have made to get transferred, it is the first question that pops into my head.
I am here for the same reasons as you, i guess.  or, at least, the same reasons you used to have for being here before... before you decided to... quit.
you just met me.
maybe I am not understanding the question.
it is very simple.  you worked a nice, quiet town, but you fought to get here as if your life depended on it.  I have just never seen it done that way before, detective.
maybe i thought i could do more good here than there.  i do not know.  look, it would be great by me if we did not start right off kicking each other in the balls.  but, you are calling the shots, lieutenant, so... however you want it to go.
let me tell you how i want this to go.  i want you to look, and i want you to listen.
i was not standing around guarding the local taco bell.  I have worked homicide for five and a half years.
not here.
i realize that.
well, over the next seven days, do me the favor of remembering it.
i wonder what exactly was the point of the conversation you were about to get into?
and i wonder how many times officer davis there has found a dead man who was not really dead until davis was in the car calling it in and eating a donut.
drop it.
for now.
who said this was murder?
no one yet.
then, why are we wasting our time?  this guy's heart's got to be roughly the size of a canned ham.  if this is not a coronary, i do not know what is.
when we found him, he was lying there with a knife in his back, so what else could it be but homicide?  except, i finally figured out... he held the knife behind him... put the tip of it in his own back and got real close to the wall... then he shoved his body backwards...
please be quiet for a while, would you?
there is a bucket here.
what?
there is a bucket.  under the table.
it is a bucket of vomit.
is there any blood in it?
i do not know.  feel free to look for yourself, okay?
you think it was poison?
guessing at this point is useless.
you have seen my files, right?  seen the things I have done?
no.
anyway... i did my time on door-to-doors, and walking a beat.  i did all that shit for a long time.
good.
the badge in my pocket says "detective," same as yours.
i made a decision, because i have to consider the integrity of the scene.  i can not worry whether you think you are getting enough time on the playing field.
yeah, well, all i want is...  just, just do not be jerking me off.  that is all i ask.  do not jerk me off.
is that clear?
okay... sure...  it is just that, with my old partner, you know...
i just do not think we should have that sort of relationship.  we would start quarreling over insignificant things.
same color and texture.
have you found any plastic scrapings near the stove or sink?  near the food?
this does not make any sense.
you always have to find one singular thing to focus on.  there is always one thing, and it may be as small as a speck of dust, but you find it and focus... till it is an exhausted possibility.
it could be nothing.
but, why would there be so many pieces in his stomach if it were nothing?  it must have been intentional.
he ate his fill, and was forced to continue eating... till his body rejected the food. the killer held a bucket under him, and then kept serving.  he took his time.  the coroner says this might have gone on for more than twelve hours.  the victim's throat was swollen from the effort, and there was probably a point where he passed out.  that is when killer kicked him in the stomach.  popped him.
this was one sadistic motherfucker.
"dear detectives, long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light." it is the murderer's way of announcing himself.
announcing what?
there are seven deadly sins.  gluttony, wrath, greed...
so what?  this victim...
... envy, sloth, pride and lust.  seven.
hey, so gluttony is one of the seven deadly sins.  but, this was a fat guy.  the killer may have felt this was the just best way to torture him. and, writing on the walls happens all the time.  it is like the fashionable thing to do.
one is gluttony.
this is his stuff.  I have been out in the cold all day.
this is a premeditated puzzle, and it is only the beginning.
I am declining this case.  i want us reassigned.
whoa, whoa... what?!
what is this: "i'm declining this case?"  it do not work that way.
this can not be my last duty here.  it will go on and on.
i know what you are thinking, okay?  you do not want to get in bed with this every night, but it is different now.  you are retiring.  in six days you are all the way gone.
you have left unfinished business before.
everything else was taken as close to conclusion as humanly possible.  also... this should not be his first assignment.
i do not have anyone else to give this to, somerset, you know that.  and nobody's going to swap with you.
give it to me.
how is that?
there is nothing that says i have to work with him.  if somerset wants out, "goodbye."  give it to me.
it is too soon for him.
can we talk about this in private?
that is not necessary.  you are in.
thank you.
go start picking up the pieces.  we will shuffle some paper and try to get you a new partner.
have you heard?
no, i have not heard.
there was a second.
already.
greed.  it was written in blood.
it is none of my business anymore.
i thought you might want to be filled in.
I am sure everyone's doing their best.
yeah.
good.
come on.  what are you going to do with yourself out there?
I will get a job, maybe on a farm.  I will work on the house.
can not you feel it yet?  can not you feel that feeling... ?  you are not going to be a cop anymore.
what are you talking about?
you know.
did you read in the paper today, about the man who was walking his dog?  he was attacked, and his wallet and his watch were taken.  and then, while he was still lying unconscious, his attacker stabbed him with a knife in both eyes.  it happened four blocks from here.
i heard.
i have no understanding of this place anymore.
it is always been like this.
really?
it is a package deal.  you get the phone with the office.
detective mills here.  honey... i asked you not to call me here. I will call you back...  what?  why?
it is my wife.
what?
well?
I am invited to have a late supper at your house.  and, i accept.
how is that?
tonight.
I would like you to meet somerset.
hello.
it is nice to meet you.  my husband has told me a lot about you... except your first name.
oh... um, william.
it is a nice name.  william, I would like you to meet david.  david... william.
it smells good.
what?  oh, yes.  i mean, thank you.  please, sit down.
i hear you and mills were high school sweethearts.
high school and college, yes.  pretty hokey, huh?  i knew on our first date this was the man i was going to marry.  god... he was the funniest man I would ever met.
really?
do not worry.  i do not wear it at the dinner table.
no matter how often i see guns, i still can not get used to them.
you have a strange way about you... i mean interesting.  I am sorry.  it is really none of my business.  it is just nice to meet a man who talks like that.  if david saw that paper, he would say you are a fag.  that is how he is.
i guess i will not be showing it to him then.
i was close once.  it just did not happen.
it surprises me.  it really does.
any person who spends a significant amount of time with me finds me... disagreeable. just ask your husband.
how long have you lived here?
too long.  what do you think so far?
all television does is teach children that it is really cool to be stupid and eat candy bars all day.
what about sports?
what about them?
you go to movies at least?
i read.  remember reading?
i just have to say, i can not respect any man who is never seen "green acres."
you have never seen "the odd couple?"  this is sick.  "the honeymooners?!"
i vaguely recall a large, angry man, and someone called norton.
our guy got into office, probably before the building closed and security tightened up.  gould must have been working late.
I am certain.  he was the biggest defense lawyer around.  infamous, actually.
well, his body was found monday night, okay?  but, get this... the office was closed all day monday.  which means, as long as the gluttony killing was done before the weekend, our killer could have gotten in here on friday.  he could have spent all day saturday with gould, and all day sunday.
the leather chair was soaked through with sweat.
all day saturday, and all day sunday.  the murderer would want gould to take his time.  to have to sit there and decide. where do you make the first cut?  there is a gun in your face... but, what part of your body is expendable?
he cut along the side of his stomach.  the love handle.
he must have left another puzzle piece.
look, i appreciate being able to talk this out, but, uh...
this is just to satisfy my curiosity.  I am still leaving town saturday.
gould's wife.  she was away on business. if this means she saw anything, i do not know what.  we have questioned her at least five times.
and, if it is a threat.
we put her in a safe house.
he is preaching.
punishing.
the sins were used in medieval sermons. there were seven cardinal virtues, and then seven deadly sins, created as a learning tool, because they distract from true worship.
like in the parson's tale, and dante.
did you read them?
yeah.  parts of them.  anyway, in purgatory, dante and his buddy are climbing up that big mountain... seeing all these other guys who sinned...
seven terraces of purgation.
right.  but there, pride comes first, not gluttony.  the sins are in a different order.
for now, let's just consider the books as the murderer's inspiration. the books and sermons are about atonement for sin.  and, these murders have been like forced attrition.
forced what?
attrition.  when you regret your sins, but not because you love god.
like, because someone is holding a gun on you.
no fingerprints?
nothing.
totally unrelated victims.
no witnesses of any kind?
none.  which i do not understand.  he had to get back out.
this is the one thing.
i know.
what if it is not that she is seen something?  what if she is supposed to see something, but she just has not been given a chance to see it yet?
okay.  but, what?
I am sorry about this, mrs. gould.  i really am.
i... i do not understand.
i need you to look at each one carefully... very carefully.  look for anything that seems strange or out of place.  anything at all.
i do not know why... why now?
please, i need you to help me if we are going to get who did this.
anything... anything missing or different.
i do not see anything.
are you absolutely certain?
i can not do this now... please.
this painting...
what?
why is this painting hanging upside-down?
you are sure your men did not move this?
even if they did, those photos were taken before forensics.
nothing.
it is got to be.
what the fuck is that?
a switchblade.
there must be something.
we are screwed.  he is fucking with us.
what?
bear with me.
oh, yeah, sure.  you got to be kidding?!
just wait!
just, honestly... have you ever seen anything like this... been involved in anything like this?
no.
he just may be nuts enough.
it does not fit.  he does not want us to help him stop.
who the hell knows?  there is plenty of freaks out there doing dirty deeds they do not want to do.  you know... little voices tell them bad things.
you meant what you said to mrs. gould, did not you?  about catching this guy.  you really want to believe that, do not you?
and you don't?
i wish i still thought like you.
then, you tell me what you think we are doing.
all we do is pick up the pieces.  we take all the evidence, and all the pictures and samples.  we write everything down and note what time things happened...
oh, that is all.
we put it in a nice neat pile and file it away, on the slim chance it is ever needed in a courtroom.  it is like collecting diamonds on a desert island.  you keep them just in case you ever get rescued, but it is a pretty big ocean out there.
bullshit.
i'm, sorry, but even the most promising clues usually lead only to other clues. I have seen so many corpses rolled away... unrevenged.
I have seen the same.  I am not the country hick you seem to think i am.
in this city, if all the skeletons came out of all the closets... if ever hidden body were to suddenly rise again, there would be no more room for the living.
does this make it with you?
does not seem like our man, does it?
you tell me.  I am new in town.
he does not have the desire somehow.  our killer seems to have more purpose.  more purpose than victor could ever conceive of.
the fingerprints.
yes.  they were there... so, it must be.
we will tag along.
why would we?
satisfy our curiosity?
never in my twenty-four years, knock on wood.  I have only ever taken my gun out five times with the actual intention of using it.  never fired it though.  not once.  you?
never took a bullet.  i pulled my gun once. fired it once.
and?
it was my first one of these.  we were a secondary unit, and i was pretty shaky going in.  i was still considered a rookie.
how did the fire fight end?
i got him.  i got the son-of-a-bitch. see, i was doing really good up till then. lots of street busts.  I have always had this weird luck... everything always went my way, but this was wild.  i got him with one shot... right between the eyes.  next thing i know, the mayor's pinning a medal on me.  picture in the paper, whole nine yards.
how was it?
i expected it to be bad, you know.  i took a human life... but i slept like a baby that night.  i never gave it a second thought.
i think hemingway wrote somewhere... i can not remember where, but he wrote that in order to live in a place like this, you have to have the ability to kill.  i think he meant you truly must be able to do it, not just faking it, too survive.
sounds like he knew what he was talking about.
it is victor.
call an ambulance.
the way this has gone till now, i would not have thought it was possible, but we may have underestimated this guy.
i want him bad.  i do not just want to catch him anymore.  i want to hurt him.
listen to me.  he is all about playing games.
no kidding!  no fucking kidding!
we have to divorce ourselves from emotions here.  no matter how hard it is, we have to stay focused on the details.
i do not know about you, but i feed off my emotions.
he will string us along all the way if we are not careful.
how do those cockroaches get here so quick?
they pay cops for the inside scoop, and they pay well.
sorry about that... i just...
oh, it is alright.
victor's landlord says an envelope of cash was in the office mailbox each month.  he says, quote, "i never heard a single complaint from the tenant in apartment three-o-one, and nobody ever complained about him.  he is the best tenant I have ever had.
a landlord's dream tenant: a paralyzed man with no tongue.
who pays the rent on time.
I am sick of sitting around, waiting for him to kill again.
this is the job.  it is not an easter egg hunt.
there must be something in this pile of garbage we can follow.  i mean, christ... do we have to let this lunatic make all the moves.
it is too dismissive to call him a lunatic. we can not make that mistake.
oh, blah, blah, blah.  the guy's insane.
it is a fine line between insane and inspired.
hey, freud, what brand of bullshit are you shoveling, huh?  right now he is probably dancing around his room in a pair of his mommy's panties, singing show tunes and rubbing himself with peanut butter...
no.
sooner or later his luck's goning to run out.
no.  he is not depending on luck.  you have seen that.  we walked into that apartment exactly one year after he first tied victor to the bed, to the day.  to the day! because he wanted us to.
we do not know for sure...
yes we do.  here...
this quote... his first words to us.  i looked it up.  it is from milton's paradise lost.  "long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light... "
and so what?
well, he is been right so far, has not he?
just because the bastard has a library card, it does not make him einstein.
just, realize... this is not some common lunatic.  the type of intestinal fortitude it must take... to keep a man bound for a full year.  to connect tubes to his genitals.  to sever his hand and use it to plant fingerprints.  he is methodical and exacting, and worst of all, he is patient.
what does all that matter anyway?  it is not our job to figure him out, is it?  all we have to do is catching him.
how much money do you have?
i do not know... like fifty.
well, that was money well spent.
let's go.
by telling you this, I am trusting you more than i trust most people.
it is be best if you got to the point, cause I am about ready to punch you in the face.
it is probably nothing, but even if it is, it is no skin off our teeth.  the man at hot dog world is a friend, in the bureau.
him?
for a long time, the f.b.i.'s been hooked into the library system, keeping accurate records.
what?  assessing fines?
they monitor reading habits.  not every book, but certain ones are flagged.  books about... let's say, how to build a nuclear bomb, or maybe mein kampf.  whoever takes out a flagged book has their library records fed to the f.b.i. from then on.
you got to be kidding.
flagged books cover every topic the bureau deems questionable... communism to violent crime.
how is this legal?
legal... illegal.  these terms do not apply. i do not applaud it.
so they ran our list.
if you want to know who is been reading paradise lost, purgatory, and say... the life and time of charlie manson, the bureau's computer will tell you.  it might give us a name.
yeah.  some college student who is taking english 101 and just happens to be writing a paper on twentieth century crime.
yeah, well... at least we are out of the office.  we have got pizza.
how do you know all about this?
i don't.  neither do you.
this is a waste of time.
we are focusing.
i know, i know... focusing on one little thing.
the divine comedy.  a history of catholicism.  a book called murderers and madmen.
modern homicide investigation.  in cold blood.  of human bondage.  human bondage?
it is not what you think it is.
the marquis de sade and origins of sadism.
that is.
the writings of saint thomas aqu... aquin...
saint thomas aquinas.  he wrote about the seven deadly sins.
you are sure you are reading that right? john doe?
that is what it says.  jonathan doe.
this is stupid.  it would be just too easy.
we will take a look at him.  talk to him.
sure.  uh, excuse me... are you by any chance a serial killer?  oh, you are? well, come with us then, if it is okay.
what are you going to say?
you do the talking.  put that old silver tongue of yours to work.
who told you about my silver tongue?  you been talking to my wife?
are you alright?
I am fine.
what happened?
wait... just wait.
it was him.
you can not go in there.
the hell i can't!  we get in there and we can stop him.
we need a warrant.
we have probable cause now.
think about it...
what the fuck is wrong with you?
think about how we got here!
by the time we clear a warrant someone else is going to be dead.
think it through.  if we leave a hole like this, we will never prosecute.  he will walk.  we have to come up with some excuse for knocking on this door.
okay... okay... get off.
you stupid son of a...
no point in arguing anymore...
what are you talking about?
we had him.
we could use about fifty more men here.
I am trying, alright?  just tell me what we have got.
well, there are at least five thousand notebooks in this room, and near as i can tell, each notebook contains two hundred and fifty pages.
then, he must write about these murders.
"what sick, ridiculous, puppets we are, and what a gross, little stage we dance on. what fun we have, dancing and fucking, not a care in the world.  not knowing that we are nothing.  we are not what was intended."
no dates indicated, placed on the shelves in no discernible order.  it is just his mind poured out on paper.  i do not think it is going to give us any specifics.
looking around... I have got a bad feeling these murders are his life's work.
he is preaching.
these murders are his masterwork.  his sermon to all of us.  to all us sinners.
i do not know, with this case.
if you can, please call me.  please.  i have to go now... goodnight.
i mean, you known this city.  you have been here for so long.
it is a hard place.
i do not sleep very well.
i feel strange being here with you... without david knowing.
I am sorry, i only...
perfect example.
you have to put blinders on sometimes. most times.
i do not know why i asked you to come.
talk to him about it.  he will understand if you tell him how you feel.
i can not be a burden, especially now.  i know I will get used to things.  i guess i wanted to know what someone who is lived here thinks.  upstate, it was a completely different environment.  i do not know if david told you, but i teach fifth grade, or did.
he mentioned it.
I have been going to some of the schools, looking for work, but the conditions here are... horrible.
you should look into private schools.
i do not know...
oh, tracy... i have to tell you, I am not the one to talk to about this.
i hate this city.
well, i got up one morning and went to work... just like any other day, except it was my first since hearing about the baby. and, i... i felt this fear and anxiety washing over me.  i looked around, and i thought, how can we raise a child surrounded by all this?  how can a child grow up here?  so, that night, i told her i did not want us to have it, and over the next few weeks, i convinced her it was wrong.  i mean... i wore her down, slowly.
i want to have children.  it is just...
i can tell you now, i know... I am positive i made the right decision.  I am positive. but, there is never a day that passes that i do not wish i had decided differently.
and... and... and he said... he asked me if i was married.  and, i could see he had a gun in his hand.
where was the girl?
what?  what?
where was the prostitute?  where was she?
she was... she was on the bed.  she was just sitting on the bed.
who tied her down?  you or him?
he had a gun.  he had a gun... and he made it happen.  he made me do it!  he made me put that... that thing on.  oh, christ!  he made me wear it... and... and he told me to fuck her.  he had the gun in my mouth.
the irony is, after a day of the type of work he did, he would come home and read me these morbid crime stories.  murders in the rue morgue.  le fanu's green tea.  my mother would give him hell because he was keeping me up till all hours.
sounds like a father who wanted his son to follow in his footsteps.
one birthday he gave me this brand new hardcover book, "the century of the detective," by jurgen thorwald.  it traced the history of deduction as a science, and it sealed my fate, because it was real, not fiction.  and, that a drop of blood or a piece of hair could solve a crime... it was incredible to me.
you know... there is not going to be a happy ending to this.  it is not possible anymore.
if we get him, I will be happy enough.
no.  face it now.  stop thinking it is good guys against bad guys.
how can you say that?  especially after today?
do not try to focus on things as black and white, because you will go blind.  there is no winning and losing here.
you are the oldest man i know, somerset.
you tell me, then... you walk into an apartment, and a man has beaten his wife to death, or the wife murdered the husband, and you have to wash the blood off their children.  you put the killer in jail.  who won?
you do your job...
where is the victory?
you follow the law and do the best you can. it is all there.
just know that in this case there is not going to be any satisfaction.  if we caught john doe and he were the devil himself, if it turned out he were actually satan, then, that might live up to our expectations.  no human being could do these things, right? but, this is not the devil.  it is just a man.
why do not you shut the fuck up for a while? you bitch and complain... if i thought like you, i would have slit my wrist already.
you think you are preparing me for the hard times ahead?  you think you are toughening me up?  well, you are not!  you are quitting, fine... but I am staying.
people do not want a champion.  they just want to keep playing the lottery and eating hamburgers.
what the fuck is wrong with you?  what burnt you out?
it was not one thing, if that is what you mean.  i just... i can not live here anymore. i can not live where stupidity is embraced and nurtured as if it were a virtue.
oh, you are so much better than everyone, right?  no one's worthy of you.
wrong!  i sympathize completely, because if you can not win... then, if you do not ignore everything and everyone around you, you... you become like john doe.  it is easier to beat a child than it is to raise it, because it takes so much work to love.  you just have to make sure you do not stop to think about the abuse, and the damage, because you will risk being sad.  keep ignoring.
you are talking about people who are mentally ill.  you're...
no I am not!  I am talking about common, everyday life here.  if you let yourself worry about one thing, you will worry about the next, and the next, and it never ends. in this place, ignorance is not just bliss, it is a matter of survival.
listen to yourself.  you say, "the problem with people is they do not care, so i do not care about people."  but, you are already here.  you have been here a long time.  so, there is a part of you that knows, even if everything you say is true, none of it matters.
that part of me is dead.
he cut her up and dressed the wounds.
call for help, and you will live.  but, you will be disfigured.  or, put yourself out of your misery.
oh, you want to stay now?
one of two things will happen.  we are either going to get john doe, or he will finish his series of seven, and this case will go on for years.
you think you are doing me a big favor by staying?
I am requesting you keep me on as your partner a few more days.  you would be doing me the favor.
you knew I would say yes.
no, actually, i was not sure at all.
as soon as this is over, I am gone.
big surprise.
i do not believe it.
hello.
he cuts off the skin if his fingertips. that is why we can not find a single usable print in the apartment.  he is been doing it for quite a while.  keeps cutting before the papillary line can grow back.
what about the trace on his bank account and the guns?  there must be something to connect him with a past.
so far it is all dead ends.  no credit history.  no employment history.  his bank account's only five years old and it started as cash.  we are even trying to trace his furniture, but for now all we know is he is independently wealth, well educated and totally insane.  we may never know how he got that way.
because he is john doe, by choice.
when do we get to question him?
you don't.  it goes to court now.
he would not just turn himself in.  it does not make any sense.
well, there he sits.  it is not supposed to make sense.
he is not finished.
he is pissing in our faces again and we are just taking it.
you are wound too tight, mills.  let it go.
you know he is fucking us.
you and i are, probably for the first time ever, in total agreement.  he would not just stop.
well... what the fuck, man?
he is only two murders away from finishing his masterpiece, right?  can you even conceive of what is going to happen next?  i mean, can you even imagine how he will try to finish it?
no.
i can tell you this.  i recognize his lawyer.  his name's mark swarr.
how is it working for a scumbag like this? you proud of yourself?
ease back, mills.
what do you think?
I am in.
if john doe's head splits open and a u.f.o. flies out, i want you to have expected it.
i will.
what is it?
well, i have to tell you...  i think I have fallen in love with you.
slut.
kiss me on the lips.
give me a break.
what do you mean?
i mean, at this point, what would it hurt if you told us a little about yourself?
it does not matter who i am.  who i am means absolutely nothing.  you need to turn left here... at the traffic light.
where we headed?
you will see.
we are not just going to pick up two more bodies, are we, johnny?  that would not be... shocking enough.  would not keep you on the front page of the newspapers.
wanting people to pay attention, you can not just tap them on the shoulder.  you have to hit them in the head with a sledgehammer. then, you have their strict attention.
what makes you so special that people should pay attention?
not me.  I am not special.  I am not exceptional.  this is, though.  what I am doing.
i hate to burst your bubble, but other than the fact that you are especially sadistic, there is nothing unusual about these precious murders of yours.
you know that is not true.
in two months, no one's going to even remember this happened.
you can not see the whole... the whole complete act yet.  not yet.  but, when this is done, it is going to be... so... so...
spit it out.
it is going to be flawless.  people will barely be able to comprehend it.  it will seem almost surreal... but it will have a tangible reality, so they will not be able to deny it.
i can not wait for you to see.  i can not wait...  it is really going to be something.
well, I will be standing beside you the whole time, so you be sure to let me know when this whole, complete reality thing is done.  would not want to miss it.
oh, do not worry. you won't...
what is so exciting?
it is not too far away now.
i... i doubt i enjoyed it any more than... detective mills would enjoy some time alone with me in a room without windows.  is not that true?  how happy would it make you to hurt me, with impunity?
now... i would not do something like that, johnny.  i like you.  i like you a lot.
you would not because you know there are consequences.  it is in those eyes of yours, though... nothing wrong with a man taking pleasure in his work.  i will not deny my own personal desire to turn each sin against the sinner.  i only took their sins to logical conclusions.
you only killed a bunch of innocent people so you could get your rocks off.  that is all.
innocent?  is that supposed to be funny? look at the people i killed.  an obese man, a disgusting man who could barely stand up... who if you saw him on the street, you would point so your friends could mock him along with you.  who if you saw him while you were eating, you would not be able to finish  your meal.  after him i picked the lawyer.  and, you both must have been secretly thanking me for that one.  this was a man who dedicated his life to making money by lying with every breath he could muster... to keeping rapists and murderers on the streets.
murderers?
a woman...
murderers like you?
a woman... so ugly on the inside that she could not bare to go on living if she could not be beautiful on the outside.  a drug dealer... a drug dealing pederast, actually.  and, do not forget the disease spreading whore.  only in a world this shitty could you even try to say these were innocent people and keep a straight face.  that is the point.  you see a deadly sin on almost every street corner, and in every home, literally.  and we tolerate it. because it is common, it seems trivial, and we tolerate, all day long, morning, noon and night.  not anymore.  I am setting the example, and it is going to be puzzled over and studied and followed, from now on.
delusions of grandeur.
you should be thanking me.
and, why is that?
you are going to be remembered, and it is all because of me.  and, the only reason I am here right now is because i wanted to be.
we would have gotten you eventually.
really?  just biding your time, then? toying with me.  is that it?  letting five people die until you finally felt like going out and hauling me in?
tell me what it was that gave me away. what was the piece of evidence you were going to use against me right before i walked up to you and put my hands in the air.
i seem to remember knocking on your door.
and, i remember breaking your nose.  you are only alive because i did not kill you.
sit back.
what time is it?
why?
just keep leading the way.
it is close.
stay with him.
wait!
there is no time to discuss it!
jesus christ, man, do not shoot me!
turn around.  hands on your head!
what the hell's going on?
who are you?  what are you doing out here?
i'm... I am just delivering a package.
this guy paid me five hundred bucks to bring it out here.  he wanted it here at exactly seven o'clock.
put it down.  put it on the ground.
okay...
i wish i could have been a normal man like you.  i wish i could have a simple life.
what the fuck is going on here?!
you have made a good life for yourself...
shut up!
here he comes.
what the fuck is going on?
i want you to know, i wish i could have lived like you do.
throw your gun down now!
what are you talking about?  what happened?
throw your weapon, detective!  now!
what did you say?
it is surprising how easily a member of the press can purchase information from the men in your precinct.
david... please...
i visited your home this morning, after you left.
give me the gun.
her pretty head.
somerset...
because i envy your normal life.  envy is my sin.
tell me it is not true.
i can not let you do this...
put your gun down!!
do not do this... please...
put the gun down, somerset!
you did not know.
no!
how you feeling?
i can breathe withour pain now, so i guess i feel great.
thank you.  tell them, thank you.
we figure you need all the tools you can get to fix up that piece of shit you call a house.
yeah, that is true.
they are hoping you stop and say goodbye before you go, but i told them not to expect it.
it would be too hard.
he is being arraigned tomorrow.
i read about it in the paper.
i guess... decide for yourself.  i do not know what it says.  I am going to go.
I will see you.
