you will find a rambling rose and a picket fence
tenderness and innocence in denton`
in a way...
i detect a note of reticence. are you, perhaps, one of those amongst us who feel this emotive form of presentation is overly manipulative?
well, betty, there are many ways that the spider may catch the fly...
let's hear the five 'f's' for today.  f for...
farley!
f for...
flavors!
f for...
fabulous!
f for...
fast!
f for...
foods!
thank you so much, judge wright, for another wonderful interview.
judge wright?  now, betty? first name terms, surely!
oh, oliver, you are so tolerant. time for a coffee before you rush off?
delighted, betty -- that is if you do not mind being seen with an older man.
why, oliver, since ralph and i separated maturity is something i look for in a man.
a free thinker.
everything's free there.
you bet, bert.
good!  I am going to be there.
macy struthers -- god i must have been blind -- still, the weaker the man, the dumber the blonde.
is not that brad and janet majors sitting down front?  what an ideal couple.
that is us.
i do not want to get up there.
we have got to, brad, everyone's watching.
introduce yourselves.
I am janet majors and this is my husband brad.
we have been hearing some bad things about you, brad.
he needs help.
i know, i know, it is just...
looks like 'rest home' for this marriage.
do you watch 'dentonvale,' janet?
I have caught it once or twice.
of course!  d.t.v.'s most popular hospital series featuring those perennial favorites, cosmo and nation mckinley. neuro-specialists par excellence ...if you will pardon my french. i recommend you send brad to them for treatment!
i know he is boring but... neuro-specialists!  that sounds pretty drastic.
it is no use pussyfooting around, janet -- we have to cut quick and deep.
mckinley?...mckinley?
bert brought them over from europe.  they had a very popular series together.  it is still rerun in a lot of countries.  you must have seen them in 'dentonvale?'
I am not going, janet.
what are you trying to do?  make bert look like a fool?  he is made all the arrangements.
but i do not need treadment.
ah.  mr. and mrs. majors.  how wonderful to see you.  i am dr. cosmo mckinley and this is my sister, and colleague, nation mckinley.
we understand you have been going through a rather trying time.
no!  he is never done that before.
good!  well there is still hope. lots of hope.
could i do that later?
of course.
just one or two details.  does he have any living relatives? blood relatives?
no...couldn't i do this later?
about brad's family?
as janet's parents this should be really easy.  your last clue... mental instability.  you have thirty seconds.
mental instability?
he was adopted you know.
I would forgotten.
well i hadn't.  i was worried about inherited craziness when they married.  i said to janet 'what do we know of his parents?'
you got it!
i got it!  i got it!!!
congratulations!  it is 'happy homes' for harry and emily weiss of denton.
oh my poor baby.
oh.  mom.  it is brad.
i know.
they call it a new look at an old favourite i copied it from the 'window on the world' show.  the far east meets the mid-west!
it's...
just what the doctor ordered.  i know.  come on in, my favourite show's just started.
what show?
infantile regression.
you got it!
i got it!  i got it!!!
our speciality.
i can not wait to begin on him. really, bert, i do not know what we would do without you!
of course, mrs. majors -- janet -- but I am puzzled.  if she was so keen on getting him in here, why would not she sign the contract?
no it was not janet -- exactly -- it was, in fact, your new sponsor.
sponsor!!!
dentonvale has been sold.
sold??!!
dear old bert's settled everything.
jah -- you endorse his product -- he endorses your research.
he!!??  how dare this person take advantage of my weakness.
i do not think he intends to go that far.
poor brad.
thank god he was born an orphan. it would have killed his parents.
what are you talking about? danny slepstrini is a chip off the old block.  i played 18 holes of golf with his father just last week.  and hank says danny's moved to new york.  to better himself.
he moved all right!  when they found him with fifteen other naked men at the back of wilson's bakery.
you should not have said that.
why?
your father does not like mexicans.
hey!  what are you trying to do?  get yourself committed?
I am sorry, officer.
vance!  vance parker.
janet.  janet majors.  it is just that brad...my husband...is not... very well and...  i do not want to miss the next episode of dentonvale.
dentonvale...say, that is for...  I am sorry to hear that, janet.  look I am going to let you through, but keep it to yourself, otherwise...
thanks officer park...vance.
do not worry, janet.  brad'll probably get just what he needs.
conspiracy?  that sounds a little farfetched.
it is happened before.  remember lieutenant orpheus?  he disappeared into that underworld series and never came back.
sounds like my husband.  he never came back either.  at least not after flavors gave him a commercial break.
ah yes.  farley flavors.  you know, i find it...
oh.  ah, I am not calling at an inconvenient moment am i?
not at all.  you have your life.  and i have mine.
yeah, well.  here, betty.  i just came to give you this.
I will leave you young things to it.
shove it, ralph!
you too, betty!
conspiracy is right.  the denton dossier is...
...closed?
with fast food farley at the helm it will be tv dinners from now on.
farley is already a tv winner as we shall see.  dentonvile will run forever now that his interest has embraced mental hygiene.
our field.
what does he know about it?
we are the experts.
who trusts experts?
how did you come by this scenario?
i am in farley's employ -- and...  ...we're discussing a network deal.
why janet?
everyone loves the girl next door, particularly farley.
so it seems.
it is you we are concerned about, janet.
yes how are you, janet?  are you happy?
i'm...happy.
there are countless people in this world who believe they are happy.
but they only think they are happy.
that does not make sense.
i will not be a party to this.  i want to see brad.
the question is, does brad want to see you?  quite frankly, he hates you.
what do you mean?
brad has deep feelings of hostility towards you.
me?
it is classical.  almost a textbook case...
that is an extremely negative response.
yes, janet.  leave the crying to brad.
is it because I am becoming too popular?
on the contrary.  he wants to see your ratings soar.  he needs a woman of exceptional desirability.
i bet that macy struthers had a hand in this.  we will probably be replaced by an hour of fashion tips!
now betty, do not overreact.
overreact!  you are the one with theories about conspirac...  oliver?
yes, betty.
are you spoken for this evening?
right!  an early start with janet's debut on 'good morning denton.' by the time we unveil farley's 'faith factory' we will have earned our beauty sleep.
can i just 'peep in' on brad before i go home?
home?
this is the nerve center of operations, janet.  you must stay here tonight.  that way we can all be here when mr. sun paints us a new day with his golden brush.
and you can 'peep in' on brad in the morning.
clever of you to find this spot, betty.
it pays to know your way around, oliver.
a 'stately pleasure home' indeed.
oh i adore coleridge taylor.  as a matter of fact...
i feel the heat from your skin and the stubble on your chin you are no good
you are no good
you have got dirt on your hands and everybody understands you are no good
you are no good
what a joke...
what a joke...
you fel like choking you play for broke...
you play for broke...
he leaves you smoking...
oh romance is not a children's game...
you keep going back it is driving you insane
night night
night night
it is time for bye-byes it is been a great day thanks a heap now it is time for everyone to go to sleep
when do i get to see brad?
after breakfast.  you are sounding tense, janet.  maybe i could give you a little massage?
in my time they used to call me the merlin of berlin.
they probably meant irving and wanted you to swing.
i want to see brad.
i understand your concern, but i feel it is time you started thinking of yourself.  look at yourself.
is it true they are all midgets with big heads?
absolutely true.  compared to all of them, you are perfection, flawless beauty.
you are the most desirable creature that ever walked.
if only brad could have found it within his heart to say these things to me.
he will.  but it is up to you to reawaken his feelings.  you have got to be fabulous, look, think and appear fabulous.  and farley's given you that chance.  you can use the breakfast show to knock denton dead.
do you really think so?
you have got a really tight team around you.  and everybody needs you!
but what will i do?  what will i say?  what will i wear?
ever since i was a little boy dressing up has always been my greatest joy but when it is time to be discreet there is one thing you just can not beat that is a strapless, backless classical little black
but...how?
well first you go rip rip rip then you go snip snip snip then you whip in a zip zip zip an' you split it up to the hip hip hip an' as you strip strip strip you quiver and shiver for that soft caress as you slip slip slip...into that little black dress
that minimal
criminal
sin-i-ful
little black dress
criminal
sin-i-ful
out of self comes selflessness.
show yourself.  the real you. the secret you.
I have just come to tell you how fabulous i am.
janet!  where is that lovely dress i made you?
oh, mac ran up this little crowd-pleaser.
you are practically naked!
i can not wear anything under it. that would spoil the line.
. . .for his own good.
of course.  he was in great danger of harming himself.
and none of them worked?
no.
and we also know how you feel, we are not strangers to confusion.
we are not confused.
look.  look at that.  bert schnick can see.  why...he's...dancing.
yes.  macabre, is not it.  the blind leading the blind.
hi!  macy struthers -- co-host on the f. f. show.
ah, macy.  why do not you help janet freshen up before rehearsal.
surely.
later, brenda.  ah, bert, could you spare a moment?
of course.
how is brad?
a wreck.
check.  the quacks are willing tools?
fools!
i would not mind doing janet one or two favours.
time to check with flavors.
it is only one night, janet. let's not forget who we are doing this for?
who?
brad!
I am sick of hearing about that lame dog.  I have got a lot going for me.  I am going places.  I am going to be someone.  I am going to win my way into the lives and hearts of people even if i have to kill to do it.  I will make the pathetic little crumbs love me. i do not even know why I am wasting my time here with you.  i should be with my people...
so all in all it is going to be an exciting new series for us...
...and an attractive financial prospect for denton.
did you /hear/ that, oliver.
yes, betty.  but the false promise of a new dawn is usually followed by a most bloody sunset.
oh, oliver.  what are we going to do?
no!  i do not know what janet's next move will be...but you can be sure of one thing...it all starts here!
care to indulge?
indulge?
in a little masquerade?
oh, harry.  what are we going to do?
well...maybe i could wear my black leather brogues?
too flashy...they'll clash with the new outfits.
I am looking for love
I am looking for trade
but without you and me, sis  the world'd fall to pieces  vena cava who is the raver?
our raving saviour that is you!!
i need some
young blood
i need some
young blood
i need it now i need some
young blood
i need some
young blood
betty, it is imperative we get janet out of flavors' fast fingers and brad out of that hell-hole before they both disappear forever. if only i could place that name -- mckinley?
he was a president.
president?  past presidents! betty, this is beginning to add up.
really.  what will i pin this on?
faith, betty.  but make sure it is your own.
like a virgin with an' urgin' in a surgery I will be swinging -- I will be bringing out the nurse in me
the art will start when i play my part as the healer who will steal your heart
this could be the start of a whole new career here
like a deep plum lipstick and some therapeutics
this could take us to a town that is nowhere near here
got the hot flush symptoms and I am feeling freaky
young male intern, tall and handsome
got my hem so high they will say I am being cheeky
with legs like mine I am really made for dancing
brad!  oh, brad.
he is a lame dog, remember?  but even he would not want to see you like this.
breaking out
breaking out
breaking out
breaking out
breaking out
breaking out
mr.  flavors -- may i have a moment of your time?
sure thing.
we have heard rumors that you are going to unveil more than just a new series tonight.  is this true?
absolutely correct.
could you tell us a little about it?
let's just say that I am putting sanity back on the national menu.
and how does *'local girl'* janet majors fit into the scheme of things?
is not she lovely?
mommy and daddy love you, baby.
she walks in beauty...
we love you, baby.
we all love janet...who do we love?
sank you!  velcome!  sank you!
what is cookin', bert?
i tell you what is cooking.  she made the blind see and it was a gift!  who was it from?  let's hear an 'f" for...
brad!
arrest that man!  he is committed to our care.
i never signed the contract.  he is not going anywhere.
I have took as much of you as any man can you have lost your heart
you have lost your cause
you lost your baby when you lost your balls you have lost your mind, you have lost your grip so say bye-bye
an' you are a weeper and a wailer always treading the toes of the great generally spreading your weight you are a spiteful, hateful asinine creature a pupil with no scruples who knew better than the teacher
I have took as much of you as any man can
you have lost your heart
you have lost your cause
you lost your baby when you lost your balls you have lost your mind, you have lost your grip so say bye-bye
they should be sent to the danube before dawn.
what?
nothing.  just...memories!
this could be worse than the old series.
in the old series we did not have a convertible.
some people do it for compassion
some people do it for the fashion
some people do it to be funny
some people do it for the money
some people do it for enslavement
some people do it on the pavement
some people do it for for each other
some people do it for for their lovers
some people do it for for improvement
some people do it for movement
some people do it for for enjoyment
some people do it for for employment
