-- nicola!  how was your massage?
you are in breach.
-- is this about the new pages? -- i made the changes you wanted, you are in virtually every scene --
it is not the size of the role, viktor.  am i or am i not contractually entitled to the biggest trailer on the set?
it is the biggest on earth!  i swear!  it is a 50-foot airstream -- they do not make them any longer than that.
taller, viktor.
taller?  what?
i beg you.  you can not do this to me.
i had three other offers.  i only signed on to this picture out of... loyalty.
then show some.  they will shut me down!
it was not working anyhow.  the scene with the thousand geese -- i do not understand this film.  i do not think anyone will understand it.  i already put out a press release -- citing "creative differences".
nicola anders is the only actress who can play that role.
it is a re-make, hal.  anders is not bigger than this picture.
of course she is.  no other name is going to sign on now and risk offending her.
we do not need a name.  we will cast an unknown.
no!  you will not give in to that blackmailing bitch!
excuse us.
god, viktor.  why do you always have to make things so difficult for yourself?
difficult.  I am difficult.
-- do you know what these are, elaine?
hmm... mike and ike's.
not just any mike & ike's -- cherry mike & ike's.  do you know why i, viktor taransky, two-time academy award nominated director --
-- viktor, that was short subject.
-- overseeing the most cherished movie project of my career, am walking around with a pocketful of cherry mike & ike's?
-- i have a feeling you are going to tell me.
-- I will tell you why.  it is because miss nicola anders, supermodel with a sag card god's gift to cinema, has it written into her contract that all cherry mike & ike's be removed from her candy dish along with strict instructions that any room she walks into should have seven packs of cigarettes waiting for her three of them opened, that there be a personal jacuzzi within eighty paces of her dressing room, and that any time she travels, her nanny must fly with her first class.
-- what is wrong with that?
elaine, she does not have any children!  do not you see?  we are being held hostage by 12 men and 5 women who someone somewhere has decreed are the a-list.
the public decides who is on that list.
please.
it is the truth.  those 17 superstars are our insurance policy.  we can not open -- can not make a profit without them.
we can hardly make a profit with them.  up-front salary, back-end deal, perks, per diem, percentages -- they are mocking us, elaine. we are at their mercy.  we always had movie stars but they used to be our stars.  we used to decide who would play what role. we told them what to wear, what to say, who to date.  when they were under contract, we could change their names if we wanted to -- more than once!
you realize you are nostalgic for an era you were not even born in?
well, i do remember why i started out in this business -- you seem to have forgotten -- working in new york with cassevetes -- we were trying to do something important, shine a light in that darkened cinema --
-- it is called a projector.
-- illuminate hearts and minds with a ray of truth.
listen, viktor, i have good memories of those days too -- but this is not about that or you or me or some high-minded ideal.  this is business.
spare me.
-- christ, viktor, look around. what do you think pays for all this?  this is about investment and return.  those days in new york... that's... it is over.
you are not renewing my contract.
how can i?  your last three pictures tanked.  the board is giving me hell.  no bankable star will work with you after this.  if you just compromised... a little.
I am not taking away your daughter, just your deal.  you and i both know, after the divorce i kept you on for old time's sake, so you could still hold your head up in front of lainey.  i called what is his name at warner's.  he said he would take a meeting -- in july.  I have fought for you viktor...  you want to talk severance?
you can have everything -- office, car, assistants -- all i want is the picture.
the picture's dead.
so there is no problem -- i can have the rights, the negative too?
they are yours.  but how are you going to finish it?  without a star there is no movie.
i do not need a star.  all i need is an actor -- I will reshoot the part, cut out nicola and replace her with a real actor.  a real leading lady.
even if you find her, you know the problem with unknowns, viktor.  if they are good, they get known.  and then you are back to sorting their candy... and worse.  I am sorry, viktor.
hi, dad.
hello, sweetheart.
I am sorry mom canned you.
it is really... not anything, lainey.  it is just --
do not feel too bad.  mom runs the place and they still walk all over her.  you are better off out of it.
you look very grown up.  what are you doing?  you meeting your mom for dinner?
I am going to finish the picture, sweetheart.  it is important.
i know you will do it, dad.  you are viktor taransky.
you had no choice, elaine.  he is a liability.
he also happens to be the most talented man I have ever known.
-- mr. taransky, mr. taransky... thank god.  I have been trying to see you, calling -- your assistant would not put me through.  i told her it was a matter of life and death.  i was afraid i would not get to you in time --
-- please, get away from me.
i did it, mr. taransky.  i licked skin.  i licked hair.  i licked every part of her.
you want me to call security?
i have her, mr. taransky.  the answer to your prayers.  the answer to this.
i was misquoted.
i have your new leading lady...  ... right here in my pants.
it is me, mr. taransky.  do not you recognize me? -- the future of film conference in san jose. hank... hank aleno.  i was keynote speaker.  you must remember my speech... "who needs humans?"
that is right.  you were booed off the stage.  that is got to be -- ?
-- eight years ago.  in that whole time, i never left my computer.
good for you, hank.
good and bad.  they think that is what caused this.  me eye tumor. microwaves from the screen.  it is the size of a grapefruit.  heavy too.
I am sorry.
do not be.  it was worth it.
you have to see her.
I have seen them all before.
not like this --
come on, hank.  a synthespian, virtual actor -- ?
-- we call them "vactors".
i need flesh and --
-- flesh is weak.
-- a living, breathing actor -- i can not work with a fake.
you already do.  but my actor will not get old, fat, lazy or drunk -- will not throw tantrums, demand a body double, script changes or a bigger trailer.  the disney corporation has been using artificial actors for years.
that is the point, hank.  no matter how good they are, they are still mickey mouse.  everyone's tried. everyone's failed.  it can not be done.
it can -- with my new computer code, you and me, we can do it together.
i do not know anything about computers.
that is why you are so perfect.  you have something i do not have.
what is that?
an eye -- for performance.  you know the truth when you see it.  i know.  I have seen your movies.  i love your movies.
you do?
"straw god" changed my life.
you saw that?
I have seen every frame of your work. you are the only filmmaker in hollywood with the artistic integrity to realize my vision. you and me, art and science... we are the perfect marriage.
listen, hank, it is been a rough day.  I will call you about his next week.
i will not be here next week.  the tumor's inoperable.  I will be dead.
I am already dead.
hi, dad.
hello, lainey.
your mother could not make it?
she is at the premiere of "a cold day in hell".  but i think she send someone from acquisitions.
she still with kent?
this week anyhow.
not quite how i imagined it --
-- you finished the film on your own terms, that is what matters. did you really do all the post yourself?
there was no other way.
i missed you.  i wondered if you were ever coming back.
me too.
well, i can not wait to meet simone... what is her last name?
you know, i... do not know.
is she here tonight?
she can not watch herself.
she is a miracle, dad.  where did you find her?
i saw her picture on the, er... internet.  you really did not notice anything -- unusual?
only her brilliance.  to be honest, with what you had to work with, i was expecting a train wreck.  you really pulled it off.
where is she?
good to see you too, elaine.
why is not she with you?
why?  because she would never show up at something like this.  she is intensely private.
viktor... i want to thank you for convincing simone to sign with the studio.
do not thank me.  it was entirely simone's decision.  do you have simone's check?
i do not have it on me.  anyway, it means a lot.  have you read the reviews?  they are love letters.  listen to this one.  "simone has the voice of a young jane fonda, the body of sophia loren, the grace of, well, grace kelley, and the face of audrey hepburn combined with an angel".
almost right.
i can not wait to meet her.
i do not know if that is going to happen.
why not?
as i say, she's... something of a recluse.  that is how she is able to stay so pure -- by isolating herself in her art.
do not be ridiculous.  i arranged a press conference.
out of the question.  a circus like that?
viktor, it is my studio.
she is my actor.  there are other studios, elaine.  there is only one simone.  leave the press conference to me.
do i know you?
max sayer -- national echo.
do not you have a real story to write?  why are not you in latin america?
this is the story.
i remember when the echo had class -- the paper that could bring down governments.
our leaders are not presidents anymore -- they are pop stars and screen idols.  if woodward and bernstein were alive today, they would be right here in hollywood with me.
they are alive, sayer.
so they are probably here.  you might be able to sell this 'disappearing act' to the rest of the world, but I am not buying it. what is really behind this simone woman?  the public has a right to know.  why is she staying out of sight?  and why the hell is she with you?  i do not want you to take this the wrong way, viktor, but you are not exactly cecil b. demille -- more run-of-the-mill.
maybe the reason she is with me is a little thing called integrity, sayer.  look it up.
no one came in or went out just like you said, mr. taransky.
good.
is miss simone coming today?
she is already here.  she arrived before you and she will leave long after you have gone.  remember, under no circumstances are you or any other person to enter the set without my express permission.
what if it catches on fire?
let it burn.  simone would rather go up in flames than give up her privacy.
good morning, simone.
good morning, mr. taransky.
a star is...
... digitized.
you mean they buy it?
buy it?  they are paying for it. and around here that is how you really know they buy it.
maybe he can.
do you have any idea what this means, simone?  our ability to manufacture fraud now exceeds our ability to detect it.
i am the death of real.
you are birth of... what?  a phenomenon.  a miracle.  a new era in show business.  all i wanted to do was finish the film.
and now look what you have started. and now look what you have started. and now look what you have started.
is that better, mr. taransky?
yes.  yes, it is.
hi.
perfect.  god, I am so relaxed around you.
you did create me.
no.  i... just helped bring someone else's dream to life.
mr. taransky, we both know i was nothing without you.  i was computer code -- ones and zeros.
you are right.  you are right.  of course, one does not want to boast. it is a classic case of technology in search of an artist.  that is all you have been waiting for, an artist with integrity, with a vision, who can see.
see beyond that irrational allegiance to flesh and blood. -- see that with the rise in price of a real actor and the fall in price of a fake, the scales have tipped in favor of the fake.  -- see that if the performance is genuine, it does not matter if the actor is real.  once a performance is committed to film, the blood and bones are gone anyway.  only the spirit, the illusion remains. besides, what is real anymore? these days most actors have digital work done to them so it is a gray area.
are you ever going to tell the truth about me, mr. taransky?
the only real truth is in the work.
you know what I am talking about.
yes.  yes, I am going to tell the truth about you, why would not i...?  of course, with hank's tragic passing, the secret died with him.  i am going to tell the truth... after your next picture.
speaking of which -- this is the project I would like you to do next.
not, "eternity forever"?  the legendary unproduced script that was too good ever to get made?  I would kill for that part.
i was hoping you would say that.
I will do anything to please you, mr. taransky.
I am sorry, i did not catch that. what did you say?
I will do anything to please you, mr. taransky.
viktor, I am so happy for us!
hello, hal.
the film.  the chemistry.  no reflections on nicola but simone and i -- we were just so right together.
you never were together, hal.
and still the connection was undeniable.  i have not read "eternity forever" but i know it is brilliant.  and i know i would be perfect for clive.
clyde.
yes, perfect.  as a matter of fact, i ran into simone on the lot the other day.
really?  she did not mention it.
I am sure she is meeting with a lot of people right now.  she is just as you described her, viktor... indescribable.  i strongly sensed she thought i was right for it.
you will never guess who I am with... you ran into him on the lot.
it was more in passing.
you are so far off!  hal... hal sinclair... your co- star.  remember now?... no, i do not think he is put on weight.  anyway, you think he is right for "eternity forever"?... not the right type?... a different direction...  I will try to talk her into it.
is it a jamming device?
maybe he is talking to himself.
taransky is not that good an actor. no, they are taking special precautions.  some kind of new encryption.
why?
whatever it is, it is dark.
dark?
yes, very.
can not you stop that?
why?
those things can be dangerous. staring at a screen all day -- you miss what is going on outside in the real world.  you can lose yourself. you should get out more.  how are you going to meet boys?
i know plenty of boys.
really?  who?  where do you meet them?  in a chat room?  how do you know he is not some middle-aged freak?
dad, i can spot a middle-aged freak a mile away.
okay.  but you have to find a way to escape that thing.
i do.
how?
i read.
you do?  still?  i can not tell you how happy i am to hear that.
you were the one who insisted on it.  reading me dostoyevsky and joyce when i was four.
you understood them.  that is what was amazing.  it is a nice day.  let's eat outside.
she sounds like a prisoner, taransky.  are you holding her hostage?  are you some kind of svengali?
who is the hostage, sayer, her or you?  you look kind of "captive" yourself.  while you are spending every waking hour obsessing over simone, guess what, i guarantee she does not even know you exist.  get off my property or I will call the cops.
the cops?  the cops read my column to know who to bust.  we are the only watchdog the public has.  none of this is going away.  we will be here tomorrow and the day after that.  until you slip up.  and you will.  you are looking at your shadow.  because all these elaborate precautions with simone -- every instinct in my body tells me, it is not natural.
I am just trying to help you, sayer. i do not want you to be disappointed.  it gets cold out here at night.
nice try.  if we can not get to her through you, maybe your family will be more co-operative.  i can guarantee you, taransky, one way or another, miss simone and i are going to get acquainted.
I would like to see that, sayer. invite me.
okay, dad.
if anyone asks about simone --
-- i know, i do not know anything.
exactly.  do not you wonder where I am really hiding simone?
I am sure you would tell me if you thought it was important.
sorry i did not get her back in time.
no problem.  do you want to come in?
why not?
viktor, we simply have to talk about "eternity..."
"forever".
whatever.  i still have not received simone's script notes.
there are not any.  if the filmmakers are happy, simone's happy.  she considers herself an... "instrument".
really?  oh, so she is really going to do all this nudity?
if it is on the page...
well, something has to be done about this budget.  it is completely unrealistic.  you allowed nothing for limousine service.
she will drive herself.
hair and make-up?
she will do her own.  theater training.
she was in the theater?  when? where?
I will send you her resume.
al least a contingency for wardrobe.  any woman can go up a dress size.
-- i guarantee she will not gain an once.  she is very disciplined.
well, we have to do something about this -- "stuntwoman".
what about it?
there is not one.
no need.  she does all her own stunts.
even the fall from the plane?
even the fall from the plane.
well, shoot it on the last day.
as I have tried to explain to you, elaine.  simone is not like any other actress you have ever known. she is about the work and only the work -- lives for the work.  she wants all the money up there...  ... on the screen where it belongs. she would work for scale except i know you only respect people you pay a fortune.
which accounts for your percentage.  when do i get to meet this dream?
not today.  she is learning her lines.  you can also take cue cards and teleprompter out of the budget.
I will walk you out.
listen, viktor... i want to talk to you now, not as elaine, studio head, but elaine, ex-wife.  second ex-wife.  you got lucky this last time but you need to be careful.  we both know you would not be making this overblown art film of you had not convinced simone to be in it.
elaine, talking to you now, not as viktor, director, but viktor, ex husband... what the hell happened to you?
experience, viktor.  I have seen this a hundred times -- young stars destroying the very people who discovered them.  I am worried about you, that is all.  this woman -- she controls your destiny.
simone does not control my destiny.
viktor, i have a feeling.  one of my feelings.  there is something about her i do not trust.
how will you do our love scenes?
body double.
for her?
for you.  i want you to know, simone appreciates you all working for scale.  but why am i thanking you? simone can thank you herself.  she insisted on speaking with you before filming begins.  she is on the line now.
simone, are you there?
i certainly am, mr. taransky.
hal, what are you doing?
viktor, clyde simply has to get close to simone in this scene!  he has to touch her.  he has to!
absolutely not!
but she is right there!  i must feel her!
you can't.
why not?
there's... a wall between you --
-- an emotional wall, i know. that is why --
-- no.  no.  a real wall.  you ran right through it.
how did the wall get there?
i can not explain it to you now -- you will see when it is all put together.  anyway, we got it a couple of takes ago.  let's move on.
let's take it down a notch.
-- what you do not understand --
you are going to get in a lot of trouble, mr. taransky.
why do you have to bring that up? there is always risk -- life's a risk.  it is worth it.  besides, how could something so lovely be a crime?  well, i think we have done enough for today.  you have been cooped up in there too long.  how about you and me go out on the town?  they are expecting us.
thank god for you, faith.  i know this is above and beyond the call of duty for a stand-in.  you do not know what a service you are performing for simone -- shielding her from those animals.
no, thank god for you, mr. taransky.  how many men would go to so much trouble to protect a woman?
you understand you will have to come back to my place to keep them off the, er...  ... scent.
of course.
you look so, so...
... so much like her?
yes, of course, but very beautiful in your own right.
i do find myself physically attracted to you, mr. taransky.
what?... what did you say?
do what you do to simone.
what i do to simone?
yes, call me simone.
simone?
yes, yes, again, again.  do what you do to simone.  i want to know what it is like to be her just for one night.
you are with me to be close to her?
is that a problem?
"why are we here?  is that what you are asking, jack?... why are we here?  no why.  just here".
please put your clothes on
stunning, viktor.  the hollywood foreign press is going to eat this up.
thank you.  what did you think, lainey?
one thing bothered me.
i know, hal is as stiff as always.
no, not that.  i was just wondering -- in the bedroom scene in reel two why did simone have no reflection when she walked in front of that mirror?
i got them to remove the reflection.  the mirror's metaphor -- to show how her character's inwardly dead.
that is genius, viktor.  was that simone's idea?
who else?  it is always simone's idea.
so that accounts for the lack of a shadow in reel six?
precisely.
good-night, daddy.
night, lainey.
maybe you are right.  twelve years after your daughter's born you decide to become a father.
better late than never.
i should fire you more often.  the film's looking wonderful.
you really think so?
yes.  to be honest i never quite saw this film before -- maybe it is the way simone is playing it -- but what it is saying about the illusion of permanence in everyday life, how that is the only way we can love -- i think it is really going to mean something.
thank you.  I will tell simone you liked it.
I would love to tell her myself.  when are you going to let me meet her?
soon.  soon.
everyone i know has met her, viktor.
everyone you know is lying.
that is true.
harry!  harry!  can we have a minute?  what brings you here tonight?
i just came out to support my good friend, simone.
there is a rumor that you are more than just "good friends"?
we have been seeing each other, sure, but we would rather keep our relationship private.
do i hear the sound of... wedding bells?
i can not believe you people!  no wonder she never comes to these things!
is she here?
I am fine, hal.  how are you?
somebody said she was here.
you know i sometimes forget she has bodily functions.
i know what you mean.
i have to talk to her about my experimental film.  it is very... experimental.
no.  in fact, between us, she does not really exist.
simone!
we have got our best people on it, mr. sayer.
24-hour tail on taransky?
shutter bugs camped outside any place he goes, every concierge and maitre d' on the take.  but this simone woman is good.
obviously the name is not real -- she is using an assumed identity, travels under a false name, checks into hotels with an alias.  she never stays in the same place two nights in a row.  anything on the satellite photos?  what about the fingerprints?  what happened when we dusted that hotel suite?
well, we got some of taransky's fingerprints, a lot of your fingerprints... but none of hers.
which means they are significant.  incriminating.  perhaps, criminal.  she is hiding her past.  she is hiding her past.
of course -- no one's that perfect, that pure.  you know i had something on mother teresa.  but then she died and it was not worth it anymore.  i know how to flush out this simone -- a tell-all story from her childhood.
my god, you have got one?
i will when you are finished writing it.
am i wasting my time with you? when she sues to protect her privacy, she will have to appear in a public courtroom to do it.
long live the first amendment.
sometimes you have to tell a small lie to get to the bigger truth.  as for a photo -- if you can not do it, i know twelve million people who can.
-- you can not go in there!
-- we have to talk to her, viktor!
-- it is starting to look like she does not support the film or you, viktor.  if you can not handle her, i will.
not now.  she is emotional.  her mother dies today.  scene forty-two of "good for nothing".  it is not a good time.
so, the secret's finally out, viktor.
-- i can explain.
-- i do not think that is necessary. i think it is perfectly clear.  i should have guessed -- it all makes sense now... it is why she never goes anywhere, never seen in public...
the premiere was the first time I have convinced her to venture out and it just confirmed her worst nightmares.
viktor, you should have said something.
she does not want pity.
you are so good to protect her like this.
I will tell you what.  i know how much this means to you.  I will try to get her to plug the film.  I am not promising anything but maybe she will do a talk show -- taped.
oh, make it live -- please, viktor.
I will try.  maybe live but remote. she will never go to them.
she was there.  she did not by any chance happen to mention me?
she said you were very beautiful.
really?
elaine, what are you doing tonight? would you like to go somewhere -- dinner?
I would love to.  but are not you supposed to meet up with simone?
oh, yes.  of course.  do not i always?
mr. sayer...
what do you want -- ?
mr. sayer, did we pay the million bucks yet?
-- cashier's check went out to our anonymous tipster this morning -- worth every penny too.  who says there is no place for checkbook journalism?  we will be running stills of this for months, then release the whole tape -- we will get our money back -- maybe show it on an exclusive pay-per-view event. do you realize what we have here? we have the only independent footage of simone in existence.
we used to.
well, no one could accuse you of being over-exposed, simone.  why have you stayed so completely out of the limelight?
i just think actors talk too much. does the world really want to hear your life story just because you have got a movie opening friday?
of course, the only problem with shying away from publicity these days is that it tends to attract more.
do not i know it.  that is the only reason I am here now -- to put the attention back where it belongs, on mr. taransky's film.
you do not secretly want the attention?
I am not even sure i deserve it. after tonight I will have almost as much screen time on your show as i do in my movies.  how is that healthy for a performer?
because, you have to understand, frank, these interviews -- none of this is real.  who i am on screen and who i really am are two totally different people.
who are you really?
that is a good question.  as nietzsche said, "whenever a man strives long and hard to appear someone else..."
no, I am okay.
let's talk about the work that you care so much about.
sure.  where would you like to start?
how about the nudity?
nudity has just never been an issue for me, frank.  for me, clothes are just an option.
what exactly was it that attracted you to your first two projects?
i suppose the thing i like most about the movies I am in is that they are not about special effects.
-- viktor, are you with her?  is she there?
no.
are you and simone...  ... getting married?
no, of course not!  why?  would you care if we were?
well, yes.  from a studio point of view, it would be better if simone stayed single.  anyhow, i thought she came across great tonight.  intelligent, well informed, a natural.  and touching. she was spectacular.
thank you.
viktor, do you realize you always do that?
do what?
whenever i compliment simone, you take the credit.
i do?
yes, you do...  anyway, tonight was a good start.
excuse me?  start?
it is a crowded summer.  we need every photo-opp, sound-byte and column inch we can get.  good night, viktor.
mom, do you miss dad?
sometimes.  but, just when i think your father's changing for the better, i realize he is as self absorbed as ever.  he took the credit for simone tonight.
-- I have been here before! -- on my honeymoon with my ex-wife.
is that why she left you?
it is a hotel.
i do not understand.
could they have built that hotel since yesterday?
nice boat, taransky.
it is a yacht.
i know what you are up to.
i do not have time for this, sayer.
i think you do.  i know it is a fake.
it is bogus.  you used an old library shot for the background.
the background is.
she was never in new mexico.  she never left the studio.
I have done my homework.  I have studied her.
-- i bet you have.
-- I have looked at every piece of publicity she is ever done, the video in the supermarket, there is no evidence she is ever left the studio.  oh, and for some reason this woman leaves no paper trail.  but i have "obtained" a copy of your bank accounts.  i know you have power of attorney but so far you have not transferred one single solitary cent to her.
I am keeping it in trust.
i know that is what you would like us to believe.  but i got to tell you -- embezzlement is a serious matter. not to mention abduction.
abduction?
i do not buy the whole recluse scam. how are you doing it?  what is it -- drugs?  blackmail?  mind-control? all three?  what do you do -- keep her locked in a box somewhere?
what is it exactly you want, sayer?
i want to see her.  unless you show me simone live and in person i show these pictures to the authorities.
alright, sayer, you have got a deal.
er,... good.
my two favorite girls.
lainey and i just wanted to congratulate...
... simone.
she is lying down.  she is exhausted.
i can imagine.
thank simone for the tickets.
it was a great show, dad...
i can not believe she is doing this -- taking advantage of him this way. it is cruel.
why?
obviously, this can not last.  she is going to dump him.  viktor will not be able to take that.  he is too sensitive.  it will destroy him.
elaine, do you realize you can not stop talking about viktor?
i have to talk to her.
hey, lainey.  how is your love life?
i do okay.  how about you?
you know me -- married to my work.
i noticed.
dad, you know i do not like to get between you and mom but she is feeling down right now.  she broke up with kent.
really?  too bad.
she thinks you are with simone.
lainey, you know simone and i do not have a real relationship.
i know but mom doesn't.  maybe if it came from simone, if simone spoke to mom -- she could straighten things out.  dinner, maybe.
dinner?  dinner's difficult.  a phone call?
too impersonal.  they have to meet face-to-face.
I will see what i can do.  you know, lainey.  i do not believe you have ever once asked to meet simone.  do not you like her?
i love her but that does not mean i need to meet her.
i love you, lainey.
i love you too, daddy.
hello?
hello, is this elaine?
yes -- oh my, god.  is that you, simone?!  I have been wanting to talk to you.
well, here i am.  you look pretty today.  red suits you.
where are you?
right beside you.  i borrowed viktor's car.
I would love to stop somewhere but I am late.  I am on my way to see viktor now.
no, i understand.  that is what i want to talk about.  i do not know if you know this, simone, but viktor and i were married once.
i can not imagine how you ever let a man like that go.  i owe viktor everything.
i think he owes more to you.  but that is not important now.  i know what is going on between you two.
i want to reassure you, elaine, there is absolutely nothing going on between viktor and i.
you do not have to protect my feelings, simone.  i do not blame viktor for falling in love with the most desirable woman in the world.
I am not --  he is not.
my god, are you alright, simone?
damn --  yes -- i --  -- I am just a little tired. listen, elaine, viktor and i -- it is strictly a working relationship.  we could never be anything else.  we are just so... different.
exactly.  you are a household name now.  you are moving in entirely different worlds.  that is why i hope you are not toying with viktor.
it sounds like you still have feelings for him.
we have a daughter together.  i just do not want to see viktor get hurt.
i do not know how many times i have to say this, elaine, but viktor and i are not in love.  i only make love to the camera.
simone, i recognize the shirt you are wearing.  i gave it to viktor on his birthday.
christ --  elaine, i know how it looks but...  ... it would mean a lot to viktor if you would go with him to the oscars. if you will not do it for him, please do it for me.
okay -- for you.
thanks.  this is my exit so, i --
I am glad we talked.
good-bye.
why did not she thank you?
she did... did not she?
what now, sayer?
looks familiar, does not she?  no one comes from nowhere, taransky. you turn over enough rocks...
i traced her to a nursing home.  a young woman fitting simone's description dropped her off five years ago.
she looks a lot like you.
she has not uttered a word that whole time -- until she saw the big show.
that does not prove a thing -- wait until i get a court order for a blood test.
that will not be necessary.  sooner or later i knew you would crack this thing, max.  you got me.
i do?  sure i do.  can we speak off the record?  I am a fair man.  I am willing to sit down with her and tell her side of the story.
i would not want you to compromise your ethics.
no.  thanks.  absolutely.
you love her, do not you, max?
do not you?
this should take care of mother.
happy birthday, lainey.  do you like it?
it is fantastic -- it is too much.
it is the car she drove in "eternity forever".
i know.  thank her for me.
it is from both of us.  of course you will have to drive it around the lot until you get your permit --
-- i can not accept it.  i do not want a car, dad.
why not?  i can get you something else.  what do you want?
the old viktor taransky.  i liked you better before -- before all this.  you were a loser, dad, but at least you had integrity.  i can not stand to see you like this -- clinging to simone's coattails -- it used to be about the work, and now it is all about her.  and then she is not even grateful enough to thank you.
no, that was me.
there you go again, blaming yourself.  can not you see what she is done to you -- she is taking advantage, mocking you.  you deserve better than simone.  I have got to go, dad.
lainey...
a lot's happened since we last saw each other.
yes.
i never apologized properly for what happened on "sunrise".
thank you.  it is not important.
after i saw what simone did with the role -- you know i fired all my people, went into rehab, took acting classes, changed my whole look.  she really inspired me.
would you like me to read?
yes, I would like that.
you know you are really very good. i take back what i said.  i mean, you are really good.
thank you.
you could play the lead.
but that is simone's part.
yes, of course it is.  you know you have a line here.  not a wrinkle.  actually, more of a dimple.  I have been thinking of incorporating something like that in simone.
you would cosmetically alter simone to look like me?
no, of course not, you are right. that would be crazy.
elaine, it is wednesday.
is it wednesday?  it is wednesday. how embarrassing.  i do not know what i was thinking.  with all the excitement lately...  am i interrupting something?  are you expecting company?
as a matter-of-fact i am.
when is she coming over?
about now.  would you like a drink?
i suppose i could stay, just until she arrives.
is simone back to earth yet?
not quite.
I am sure you will keep her focussed. she is lucky to have you, viktor.  is she really having your baby?
impossible.
i just read somewhere --
i know.  i know.  they will say anything.
-- and she was positively glowing at the awards.  i should be going, she will be here soon --
-- she already is.  simone's not coming over, elaine.  not tonight, not ever.  i want you back, elaine.
i want you back too, viktor.
this is crazy.  who am i fooling? i can not compete with simone.  what woman can?
i would rather have you than simone.  believe me.
that is sweet, viktor, but i could not let you do that -- make that kind of sacrifice.  it is strange.  I have stabbed people in the back, clawed and slept my way to where i am -- it goes with the territory -- but, for some reason, i can not betray simone. there's... i do not know any other way to say it -- there is a goodness to her.
no, there isn't.  there is nothing to her.
oh, viktor.  you say that now -- because we are here, alone, like this.  but in the morning, you would go back to her.  what man wouldn't?
no, i will end my relationship with her -- totally.
but you do not understand.  she will always be there -- at some party, on some magazine cover, some song on the radio, up on some screen.
no.  she will never work again -- retire, never make a movie or a record, or appear ever again.
of course she will.  her public will demand it.
not if i do not let her.
you?
I am going to tell you a secret now, elaine.  simone is not a real person.  i invented her.
every actor is an invention, viktor.  do not embarrass yourself. no one's denying that you discovered simone.  but it is like finding a diamond in the desert. anyone can trip over it, but it is not the finder who sparkles.
-- no, no, i did not trip over her. you do not understand --
-- you just got lucky that she is loyal enough to stay with you. maybe she is staying out of pity, who knows?  she certainly does not need you.  some people even say you are holding her back.
who says that -- ?  -- never mind.  you have to listen to me, elaine.  simone is thin air, pixels, molded by me from a mathematical equation.  i inherited it from a madman -- i can show you --
how much wine have you had?
-- she is a figment of my own imagination.  i, viktor taransky, have perpetrated the greatest hoax, the greatest sleight-of-hand, sleight-of-mouth, sleight-of- sleight in entertainment history! and still no one appreciates me, recognizes what I have done -- even you.
you are drunker than i thought.  are you doing that again?
no!  whatever talent simone has comes from me -- me!  me!  i swear, as god is my judge.  you do not know what I have been through.  tens of thousands of mind-numbing hours in front of that screen, nights without end, and look what it is cost me.  why do you think I have been wearing these?  i may have done irreparable harm to my eyesight, and why?  to extract and refine the infinite nuances of a human being -- a human soul.  do not you see?  i made simone!
can i see you later -- go away for the weekend?
how can you bring that up at a time like this?
-- forgive me, mr. taransky.  I am just trying to understand.  all these films, tv appearances, magazine covers, internet interviews, publicity photos, snapshots from her childhood -- all fake.  this is fake, this is fake -- fake, fake, fake, all fake.
that is right.  you understand perfectly.  i will confess to fraud, not murder.
a fan club with a worldwide membership in the millions -- also bogus?
oh, no.  the fan club is real.  but they were worshipping computer code -- ones and zeros.
so, of course, you could not kill simone because there never was a simone.
of course.
and this mr. hank aleno who you talk so much about, a renowned failure, who also happens to be so conveniently dead -- perhaps the "man" you claim helped invent simone is an invention himself?
but not everyone's imaginary, are they, mr. taransky?  i refer, of course, to edith.
who?
can you tell us why you were disposing of the body of a woman who did not exist?
it was not her body.  it was her body of work.
why do not you just come clean, viktor?  tell the truth.  you will feel better afterwards.
i am telling the truth.
we all know what happened.  in a fit of jealous rage you killed simone and dumped her body off a boat she bought for you.
no!!  i can prove it to you.  I will take you to her.
-- plead guilty and throw yourself on the mercy of the court.  it is the best deal you are going to get.
i could get the death penalty.
you certainly will if you go to trial -- a jury in this kind of ugly mood.  you have killed an icon, for god's sake.
i did not kill anyone, bernard, there was no one to kill!
an insanity defence.
let's go, lainey.  there is nothing here.
just a minute.
god, it is so like your father.  why can not people take responsibility for their actions anymore?  i can almost forgive him for killing simone -- but denying her existence.  i can never forgive that.
because obviously she existed, right?
i know it as surely as you are sitting here, sweetheart.  she was the most vital woman i ever met.
so you did meet her?
of course.  what are you suggesting?
i mean really meet her -- in the flesh.
i know it is embarrassing to admit it, mom, but when i think about it -- honestly, i haven't.  i mean, it feels like i have.  i know more about her than members of my own family.  she is even in my dreams. but i realized, going back through my diary, they were all tv appearances, near misses at parties, second-hand rumor, gossip on the internet.  I have never actually seen simone up close, touched her, been in her physical presence.  have you?
well, i --
-- we do not believe daddy because we do not want to believe we were taken in too.
lainey, there is no evidence that simone is not real.
listen to what you are saying, mom. is there any evidence she is?
-- no!  i can not go along with this horseshit!  just tell them they can fry me!
what?!
it was premeditated -- i knew exactly what i was doing!  i strangled her!  i bludgeoned her! i set her on fire!  i did it!  i killed her!
thank you!  i do not know how you did it but thank you.
do not thank us too fast, viktor. you know what we have to do?
why stop at one character when you can have a whole cast?
exactly.  now that you have the studio behind you, we can really do things.
i was thinking -- what about you and... "simone" moving back in with me and lainey?
that sounds wonderful.  how do you feel about all this, lainey?
about you and mom?
me and simone.  what i did.
your mistake was not making something fake, daddy.  we are fine with fake -- as long as you do not lie about it.
do not look so glum, viktor.  it is not a death sentence.
no... it is life.
-- simone, the question on everyone's mind is simply... "why?"
frank, you know as well as i do, living in a fish bowl, the insatiable appetite of the media...
with everything that was going on in my life, i just needed to drop out of sight for a while -- i needed time.  viktor bought me that time.  i owe him so much.
we all do.  but now i understand you are eager to get back to work -- and not the kind of work that we are all expecting.
that is true.  i can reveal that i am considering a career in politics.
and what may i ask brought this on?
