there is no why, annie.  I am just not up for it.  i never said i was.
is there somebody else?
nope.
you do not love me, is that it?
nope.
how about ... you are too narcissistic to commit to another human being in a long- term way.
that is good.
five minutes in the microwave. any one of them, five minutes and done.  ready to eat.  do you know how to make juice?
microwave.  five minutes.
you take the microwave?
what am i going to do with a microwave?
you turn it on, you open it and you stand in front of it for a very long time.
so you are angry.  big deal.
honey, he was not right for you.
i know.
he was not even wrong for you, like cosmically wrong, so do not beat up on yourself for wasting...however long it was.
i know.
maybe you should see a shrink.
i want my money.
go home for the weekend.
that is what I am going to do. I am going to go home.  i quit.  laurie, i quit.  I am going back to baltimore.  how does a blonde do a high- five?
eventually, in a few months, you will start seeing women, you will meet someone.
move on.  right.  that is what I am going to do.  in a few months, boom, I will be fine, I will just grow a new heart.
I am sorry --
the short one with black hair is your cousin irene --
-- who is married to --
harold, who ran away with his secretary but came back --
-- because irene threatened to put the dog to sleep if he did not --
and your brother tom is a psychology professor and is married to...betsy --
-- who is the most competitive woman in the world --
your uncle milton lost all his money in a puerto rican condominium that went belly up, do not mention the irs or the federal prison system.  your mother is barbara, your father is cliff --
i hope he does not get out his slides.
am i what they had in mind?
they are going to love you.
everybody! annie has an announcement --
walter and i are engaged!
it is probably just the flowers --
we will move them --
do not touch them.  i feel terrible sneezing at a time like this.  this is a big moment for me --
he is allergic to everything, do not worry about it --
if he eats one tiny piece of a nut --
my head swells up like a watermelon and i drop dead.
is that all right with you?
today i consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth.
the historical society wanted this and i never would give it to them --
granny's dress.  oh, mom.
i notice these things are back in fashion.  oh, honey.  he is a lovely man, annie.
i know.  he is wonderful, is not he?
are his folks nice?
you will love them.  we are going down to d.c.  tonight to be with them christmas morning.
how did it happen?
it is silly, really.  i mean, I would seen him at the office, obviously I would seen him, he is the associate publisher, and then one day we both ordered sandwiches from the same place, and he got my lettuce and tomato sandwich on whole wheat, which of course he was allergic to, and i got his lettuce and tomato on white.
how amazing.
it is, is not it? you make millions of decisions that mean nothing and then one day you decide to order takeout and it changes your life.
destiny takes a hand.
oh, please.  destiny's just something we have invented because we can not stand the fact that everything that happens is accidental.
then how do you explain that you both ordered exactly the same sandwich except for the bread? how many people in this world like lettuce and tomato without something else like tuna?
it was not a sign.  it was a coincidence.
i was in atlantic city with my family.  cliff was a waiter. he talked me into sneaking out for a midnight walk on the steel pier.  I have probably told you this a million times, but i do not care.  and then he held my hand.  i was scared.  all sorts of thing were going through my head.  but after a while i forgot about them.  at one point i looked down, at our hands, and i could not tell which fingers were mine and which were his.  and i knew.
what?
you know.
what?
magic.  it was magic.
magic.
i knew we would be together forever, and that everything would be wonderful, just the way you feel about walter. walter.  it is quite a formal name, is not it?  one of the things i truly knew was that your father and i were going to have a wonderful time ... in the sack i believe you call it --
mom!
of course it took several years before everything worked like clockwork in that department, so do not be worried if it takes a while --
mom, we already...
well, fine, fine.  fiddle da dee.  and how is it working?
like... clockwork.
so you will get married in a new dress.
it is a sign.
you do not believe in signs.
they loved you.  i told you they would love you and they did.
i love you.
i love you, walter.  did anyone ever call you anything other than walter?
nope.
even when you were young?
nope.  not even when i was young.
you sure you do not want to drive with me?
how will i get back to baltimore saturday?  oh god, i forgot my present for your stepmother -- i took it inside by accident.
I will wait.
do not be silly.  I will just be ten minutes behind you.
no last names, jonah.  hello there, you sound younger than our usual callers.  how come you are up so late?
it is not that late in seattle.
got me there.  what is your christmas wish, jonah?
it is not for me.  it is for my dad.  i think he needs a new wife.
you do not like the one he was now?
he does not have one now. that is the problem.
where is your mom?
she died.
I am sorry to hear that, jonah.
I have been pretty sad, but i think my dad is worse.
and you are worried about him.
I am worried about him, he is worried about me, i ride my bike to school, he follows in the car, like I am not supposed to know he is there.  now it is christmas, and you know what happens to people at christmas.
no.
why not?
it is very hard for him to talk about this stuff.  it is like it makes him sadder.
you want me to talk to him?
perfect.  sandbag the father.
and you crazy? he thinks shows like this are dumb.  if you did not have an 800 number i could never get away with this --
is he home right now?
yeah.
well, i think i can help a little more if i talk to him directly.
i do not know --
I am sure he will not be angry once he realizes how concerned you are about him.
okay, but if i get yelled at, I am never going to listen to this show again.
fair enough.
dad --
what is it?
there is somebody on the phone for you.  his name is sam.
hello.
hello, sam, this is dr. marcia fieldstone on network america.
I am probably not interested in whatever you are selling.
I am not selling anything.  your son called and asked for advice on how to find you a new wife.
who is this?
dr. marcia fieldstone of network america.
jesus, are we on the air? jonah, for god's sake --
I am not mad at you.  okay, I am not mad at you.
i think it is hard for him to talk to you about all this. maybe we could talk and it would make him feel a little better.
please --
this is a grotesque violation of this man's personal life, but never mind --
all righ...
good.  how long ago did your wife die?
it is been about a year and a half.
have you had any relationship since?
no.
why not?
look, doctor, i do not want to be rude, but --
and i do not want to invade your privacy --
sure you do.
sure you do --
i have no doubt that you are a good dad.  you can tell a lot from a person's voice.  but something must be missing if jonah feels that you are still under a cloud.
tell her how you do not sleep at night.
i can hear you walking around sometimes.  at first i thought it was a robber.  go ahead, tell her, dad.
i do not think i have to now.
we have been talking to -- well, let's just call him sleepless in seattle, and we will be right back after this break with listener response, your response, to the things we have been discussing.  the number to call is...
what is she talking about?
do you think there is somebody out there you could love as much as your wife? maybe even more?
it is hard to imagine.
what are you going to do, sam?
i do not know.  when i met my wife, it was so clear.  i just knew.
what was it that made you know?
i do not think i could really describe it.
why not?
and if i could describe it, it probably would not be on a radio show.  but what the hell.  it is not one specific thing.  it is more of a feeling.
you touch her for the first time, and suddenly... you are home.  it is almost like...
magic.
magic.
the hopes are perfect -- beautiful, identical, smooth -- and they are for something really amazing i feel it in my bones --
it is a spice rack.
we desperately need a spice rack.  desperately.
dad?  about last night?
it is never happening again. right?
right.
hi.
hi.  sam?
yes?
you must be jonah.
we live two piers over, do not we? number 12, right? we are having like a really neat open house today from like four to whenever if you care to stop by.
thanks, but... we have got plans.
well, here's the number.  if you ever find yourself sleepless, give us a call.  we also... do babysitting.
not.
my feelings exactly.
how many people do you think heard that thing last night?
it plays in 50 states.
what?!
nobody else is going to know it was us.
you are right.  you better hope so.
you should write something about this.
about what?
whatever it is.
it is not true, but it feels true.
there is practically a whole book about how that statistic is not true --
what was that about up there?
what was what?
what is with you?
nothing's with me.
"sleepless in seattle"?
that is what she called him on the show.  because he can not sleep.
and now 2,000 women want his number.  the guy could be a crackhead, a psychopath, a flasher, a junkie, a transvestite, a chain-saw murderer, or someone really sick, like rick.
actually, he sounded nice.
oh? oh, really? now we are getting down to it.
not.
which means --
the cabinets have to be redone --
great.  this is great.  the whole town knows.  just out of curiosity, how do you two know?
grace heard it.
grace the dispatcher.  great.
the point is, take the client out to dinner and ask her to marry you and then maybe we will not have to redo the kitchen cabinets.
why me? what about jay?
hey, my plate is full.
well, okay.  what is the big deal?  if she will forget the new fireplace, I will marry her. just point me in the right direction.
dad, i do not know about this one --
oh, you are changing your mind --
no, I am not, but --
what is the matter with this one? would not you like to have imelda marcos as your mother?
dad --
sam, if you are not doing anything new year's -- obviously you are not doing anything new year's -- we are having some people over, all of them married, not one even remotely interested in playing around.  does that sound great or what?  i can not think of the last time i was at a party when anything actually happened.
thanks, but I will pass.  it is kind of a big night.  i do not like to leave jonah alone.
does red pepper go under r or p?
p.  dad?
what?
i forgot to mention.  jed called --
just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names do not begin with a j?  i feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you jonah.  what is marjoram? does anyone know?
jed is having a slumber party new year's eve and he invited me.
fine.  fine.
so i can go.
sure.  looking good.
should not you have used a toggle bolt?
i think i know how to have a spice rack.
I am sorry.  I am just --
stressed.
right.  I am sorry, jonah, I am sorry.
happy new year, darling.
happy new year.
i was thinking, i have to go up to boston for the aap convention and then visit winston-hughes about switching over our computers.  why do not we meet in new york for valentine's day weekend?
walter, I would love to --
we will stay at the plaza --
go for a walk in central park --
go to the symphony --
we will?  the symphony?  okay.  I will take you to the russian tea room for pelmeni.
what is it?
it is delicious, trust me.
does it have wheat in it?
i do not think so.
just out of curiosity, how did they get our address?
they called and asked for it.  "dear sleepless in seattle. you are the most attractive man I have ever laid ears on."
how did they get our phone number?
you have to give them your phone number or they will not let you go on the air.
"dear sleepless in seattle: i am an swf"--  what is that?
thank god.  something you do not know.  it is a single white female.
this is no good.  she is looking for someone french.  or greek.  "dear sleepless in seattle: i live in tulsa." where is that? --
oklahoma.  do you know where that is?
somewhere in the middle.
I am not going to think about what they are not teaching you in school.  i am not going to think about it.  generally speaking i think we should rule out people who do not live somewhere near here --
she is willing to fly anywhere.
she looks like my third grade teacher.  i hated my third grade teacher.  hold it! wait a minute! she is my third grade teacher!
dad, you are not taking this seriously.
this is not how you do it.  you want this on an english muffin or a bun?
english muffin.  how do you do it?
you see someone you like, you get a feeling about them, you ask them if they want to have a drink or --
-- a slice of pizza --
but not dinner necessarily on the first date because by the time you are halfway through dinner you might be sorry you asked them to dinner whereas if it is just a drink, if you like them you can always ask them for dinner but if you do not you can go home if you see what i mean.  i wonder if it still works this way.
it doesn't.  they ask you.
I am starting to notice that.
if you get a new wife, i guess you will have sex with her, huh?
what do you think?
will she scratch up your back?
what?
in the movies women are always scratching up guy's back and screaming and stuff.  when they are having sex.
whose show was this on?
jed's got cables.
go to sleep.
i think I am going crazy, tom. i really do.  are you happily married?
what?
i mean, why did you get married? was it all fireworks and trumpets and --
i got married because betsy said we had to break up or get married.  so we get married.
but when you met her, did you believe she was the only person for you? that in some mystical, cosmic way, it was fated?
annie, when you meet someone and you are attracted to them, it just means that your subconscious is attracted to their subconscious, subconsciously.  so what we think of as chemistry is just two neuroses knowing that they are a perfect match.
i do not even know him.  but I am having all these fantasies about a man I have never met, who lives in seattle.
it rains nine months of the year in seattle.
i know, i know.  i do not want to move to seattle.  but what i really do not want to do is end up always wondering what might have happened and knowing i could have done something. what do you think?  it is just cold feet, is not it? everyone panics before they get married, did not you?
yes, i did.
thank you, tom.  i feel so much better just having blown this off.
any time.
sandy has a girlfriend, clenda ... she is a weightlifter, but it is not like her neck is bigger than her head or anything --
I am not asking you to set me up, jay.  that is not what i need your help for.  i want to know what it is like over there.
and that is what I am trying to tell you.  what women are looking over, okay? pecs and a cute butt.
you mean, like, "he has the cutest butt"? where did i hear that recently?
everywhere.  you can not even turn on the news without hearing about how some babe thought some guy's butt was cute.  who the first babe to say this was i do not know, but it caught on.
when is the latest time you were out there?
seventy... eight.
well.  things are different. first, you have to be friends. you have to like each other. then you neck.  this can go on for years.  then you have tests.  then you get to do it with a condom.  the good news is, split the check.
i do not think it could let a woman pay for dinner.
great.  they will have a parade in your honor.  you will be man of the year in seattle magazine.  tira misu.
what is tira misu?
you will find out.
what is it?
you will see.
some woman is going to want me to do it to her and I am not going to know what it is.
you will like it.
this is going to be tougher than i thought.
hi, dad.  dad, this is jessica.
it is nice to meet you, jessica.
dad, this is amazing.  if you play this backwards, it says "paul is dead."
i know.
how do you know?
dad, could you close the door?
h and g.  hi and goodbye.
you are a basket case.
they knew it.  time, distance, nothing could separate them. because they knew.  it was right.  it was real.  it was...
... movie.  that is your problem.  you do not want to be in love.  you want to be in love in a movie.  read it to me.
"dear sleepless and son..."
it sounds like the name of a mattress store --
"i am not the sort of person who listens to call-in radio shows" --
and this woman is a writer! that is what everyone writes at the beginning of letters to strangers.
i know that.  you think i do not know that? "i know that is a dumb way to begin, but it is the only way i can think of to convey what happened to me the other night when i heard the two of you on the radio.  on the other hand, maybe I am just losing my mind."
you are.  you are losing your mind.  what about walter?
I am going to marry walter.  i just have to get this out of my system.
right.
i should say something in this about magic.
what?
i do not know.  i mean, what if i never meet him? what if this man is my destiny and i never meet him?
your destiny can be your doom. look at me and rick.
"i want to meet you..."
"on top of the empire state building at sunset on valentine's day."
good.  perfect.  I will be in new york with walter, i can squeeze it in.
you want to hear about destiny? if my husband had not gone on a diet, which caused me to leave him, i would never have been on that flight to miami, and met rick, and ended up having sex in the bathroom of a 727 with that nob you slide that says "vacant-occupied, vacant- occupied, vacant-occupied" --
you never told me you left your husband because he went on a diet.
he lost all the weight... there.
that is impossible.  a guy can not --
can too.
no.
yes.
and then you left him? he lost weight there and you left him?
plus he fell in love with a temp.
listen to this, i love this part --
men never get this movie.
i know.
do you think at the end of the movie when she is in the wheelchair they can still do it?
i always wondered about that too.
it was sinking.
what was?
our house.  there was water coming in all the windows.
you are worried we are going to be all right.  we are going to be all right.  i remember sometimes you would have nightmares as a baby.  your mom would hold you and rock you and sing you a song.
bye bye blackbird.
is that what she used to sing?
i miss her.  what do you think happens to someone after they die?
i do not know.
like do you believe in heaven?
i never did.  or the whole idea of an afterlife.  but i do not know any more.  i have these dreams about... your mom... and we have long talks about... about you, and how you are, which she sort of knows but i tell her anyway.  so what is that? it is sort of an afterlife, is not it?
I am starting to forget her.
i know.  but she is here, jonah. because i have you.  and as long as i have you, i have your mom.
i... uh... have a date with someone friday night.
good.
i need to know about him because... he is involved with my sister...
okay.
she has a pattern of getting involved with losers... once she almost ran away with a human cannonball from the circus.
do you want a matrimonial, past wives, any kids--
no, i know that part --
so you want a financial, is he a deadbeat, we can do a d&b --
no, no, no, it is more like, who is he, does he have a sense of humor, is he nice -- no forget nice, I have got nice --
a sense of humor.
I will tell you the truth, i heard this guy on a call-in radio show and i might not marry the person i should marry because I have become obsessed with him.
oh.  like glenn close in that movie.
no.  not remotely.  i just want to find out about him.
you want a tail.  i got a guy in seattle --
this one's for both of us.
sleepless and son.  baltimore.
great.
i look stupid.  i look stupid, do not i? i look like I am trying too hard.  i was going to get a haircut but then i thought I would look like i just got a haircut.
this is a good letter, dad.
the heels on these shoes are very large.  why have i never noticed this? the heels on these shoes are grotesque.
her name is annie.  annie reed.
now I am late.  bye.
listen to this --
not now, jonah --
just this one part, okay?  "i have been an excellent third-baseman for as long as i or anyone else can remember, and i guarantee you will not get one past me"
jonah, I am leaving --
wait!!!  -- "and while we are on the subject, let's just say right now that brooks robinson was the best third baseman ever. it is important that you agree with me on that because I am from baltimore."  dad, she thinks brooks robinson is the greatest.
dad!
everyone thinks brooks robinson is the greatest.
it is a sign.
oh, right.
here is seattle.  and here is baltimore.  case closed.
she does not want us to go to baltimore.  she wants to meet us in new york city on valentine's day.  on top of the empire state building.
perfect.  we will be there.
hi.
hi.
you look good.
you look good yourself.
i thought you were never going to call me.
you did?
i really wanted you to call me, and i thought you were never going to --
you could have called me --
no way.  no way i was going to be the first woman you went out with after...  there is no percentage whatsoever in being the first woman anyone goes out with after...
you are the first woman I am going out with.
oh.
so whatdya say? I will get the check, and I will call you in eight months.
tell me he is living in squalor. tell me everything he has is being repossessed, including his filthy, dented mobile home.
he is got a houseboat.
i hate boats.
it sounds nice.
boats.  you go out in them. you come back in them.  i hate them.
houseboats do not go anywhere.
boats.  all anyone talks about is the wind.  is it up, is it down.  i can not live with a man who only talks about the wind.
it is not a boat boat.  it is really a house.
but it is on the water.
it is on the lake right in the middle of seattle.  it rains nine months of the year in seattle.
i hope i do not have to pay for that piece of information.
no, that is free.  he is an architect.  used to do big high-profile projects.  he scaled it all back when his wife died.  now he remodels people's homes.  he works in a small firm, makes a good living.
i figure we could go to new york, catch the knicks, and since we would be there anyway, obviously we would go to the empire state building --
there she is.
why is she bringing that bag?
she is going to cook something for us?
hi, sam.  and let me guess -- you must be jonah.
hi.  he should book now because we can get an excursion fare. jessica's parents are travel agents and --
we can not finish the job.  she is on her sixth painter, now she is thinking maybe she wants the fireplace rebricked --
i know her pretty well.  maybe i could call her --
I have already solved it.  I have hired a hit man.
do you like baseball?
yes, i do.  in fact, my firm has box seats for the mariners. why do not we all go next week?
what about camping?
what about it?
do you like it?
i went camping once.  i love to brush my teeth in a brook and floss with a weed.
we ought to start camping again, dad.
okay, tiger.  time for bed.
it is only ten o'clock.
jonah!
okay.
thank victoria for dinner.
thanks for dinner.  i never saw anybody cook potatoes that way.
I am glad you liked it.  good night, jonah.
hello.
turn on your radio!
what?
the kid is on.  you have got me listening to this garbage. go on, turn it on.
who is it?
oh, it is just becky, she is having trouble with rich again.  hold on, becky, I am going downstairs.
this is a complete disaster.  i wanted him to find a wife, but he is got the wrong one --
how am i going to explain this to walter?
is he there?
no.  after he was born, every time we started to make love, he would cry.  he had an uncanny sense of timing.  we really should not do anything here anyway.
absolutely.  right.
oh god, it is major.  he is kissing her on the lips.  i have to stop this.
come on, jonah --
miss scarlett.  in the broom closet.  with the radio.
i got to go.  I will see you at work.  walter, you scared me.  do not ever do that again.
do not ever do that again.
i thought i saw a black widow spider.
what are you doing up?
i was thirsty.
there is a bathroom upstairs.
the water tastes better in the kitchen.
that is true.  why is that?
becky heard this woman on the radio complaining about this guy she was sure was rick, which meant he was cheating on her.  she was completely hysterical.  then it turned out the woman lived in duluth.
that does not make any sense.
i know.  it makes no sense at all.  thank god my life is in place.
write her.
you think so?
it is y. o. h.
yeah.  what is that?
your only hope.
i thought i would look into doing a story about those radio shows.
you would probably have to go somewhere to really look into it.
definitely.
did you call that radio station again?
no.
everyone at work heard you.
i just called for a second.
long enough to call victoria a ho.
it is a short word.
this is not a joke.  thank god victoria does not know.  it would really have hurt her feelings.
if she knew, she would never forgive me.  it would be hopeless for the two of you.
could not you just do a phone interview?
not for the kind of place i want to do.  i will not be in chicago that long.
when you get back, I will be gone --
and then I will see you in new york --
okay, okay.
sure.  I would really like that. thank you so much.
well...
i think they are announcing your flight.
he is ten.
he is good at it.
i read an article about this ...
i read the same article...
it takes time --
absolutely.  when i come back, maybe the two of us should spend some time together, on our own.  what do you think?
sure.  sure.
jonah, this is not fair.  you do not know victoria.  i hardly know her myself.  she is, in fact, a mystery to me.  she tosses her hair a lot.  why does she do this? i have no idea.  is it a twitch? does she need a haircut? should she use barrette so it does not keep falling in her face? these are things that I am willing to get to the bottom of, and that is why i am dating her.  that is all i am doing. i am not marrying her.  can you appreciate the difference? that is what single people do, they try people on and they see if they fit.  but nobody fits perfectly, everyone is an adjustment.
was mom an adjustment?
I am never going to meet anyone who is going to measure up to your mom in your eyes? what do you think? there is a perfect woman walking around out there?
god, she is beautiful.
victoria? she is okay.
dad, i was talking to jessica about reincarnation, and she thinks that probably you knew annie in another life.
who is annie?
the one who wrote us.
the reason i know this and you do not is that I am younger and purer so I am more in touch with cosmic forces.
i sincerely hope you are not going to marry jessica.
did you talk to him?
i could not do it.  how did i get here?
you told a lie and got on a plane.
that is not what i mean.  I am going back over there tomorrow and talk to him.  i am.
okay.  good.  goodbye.
becky?
what?
is this crazy?
no.  that is the weirdest part about it.
thank you.  i love you.
i love you, too.
good night.
god, it is wonderful to see you. where is greg?
he is over at the boat show. he will be by later.  it is so beautiful here.
hello.
hello.
you were standing in the middle of the street?
you know that dream where you are walking down the street naked and everyone is looking at you?
i love that dream.
that was nothing compared to this humiliation, nothing.
but he saw you, right?
he said hello.
it is a sign --
it is a sign I have watched this movie too many times.  I am so stupid.  from the minute i listen to that stupid program on the radio, I have been a complete jerk.
you do not know who she was, annie --
i saw her.  she looked just like this --
this is a photo of hair.
well, it is the same woman.  and he was crazy about her.  what is this?  this is from seattle.
becky?
so i mailed your letter.
"dear annie: thanks for your letter.  it was great.  we are very excited about meeting you in new york on valentine's day and seeing if we are m.f.e.o. sleepless in seattle."
m.f.e.o.?
made for each other.
so he can not write.  big deal. i mean, verbal ability is a highly overrated thing in a guy, and our pathetic need for it is what gets us into so much trouble.
I am going to run back to walter's arms, if he is still have me.
what about the letter?
it does not mean anything.  it was written before i went out there.  before the ho.
you saw her in the airport and then here?
i tried to talk to her...  it was like i knew her.  weird.
how is jonah taking it?
it will take him a while to come around.  a month ago he called one of those radio call-in shows and told them i needed a wife --
you are kidding --
now that I am seeing someone, it is a whole other thing.
it is a little derivative.
what do you mean?
"an affair to remember." did you ever see it? cary grant and deborah kerr.  before that it was called "love affair with irene dunne and charles boyer."
they met at the empire state building, only they didn't. never mind.
what kind of person would write to someone they heard on the radio?
just because someone is looking for a nice guy does not make them desperate.
how about rapacious and love- starved?
no.
it is easier to be killed by a terrorist --
it is not --
right, right.
anyway, victoria's nice.
would you follow her through an airport?
look, i met somebody.  she is good, and capable and smart. we hit it off.  we can not spend your life chasing after fantasies.
hi.
hi.  so far so good.  so.  what should we talk about? how insecure we were in high school.  shirley votypka, the first girl i ever felt up. health.  what about health? did you know that eating six macadamia nuts is the equivalent of eating a steak?
shhhh --
you are going to miss the train.
no, I am not.
what are your plans in new york?
we are going to the rainbow room and the symphony tomorrow night.
i love the symphony.
i hate it.  I am so happy, becky.  finally i feel happy.  this is right. this is real.  everything else is what happens when you watch too many movies and completely lose sight of what counts.  please do not tell anyone about what happened.  "sleepless in seattle" is history.
this is the best movie I have ever seen in my life.
i do not get it.
you have to go to her, jonah. you have to find her.
do you know how much it costs to go to new york?
nobody knows.  it changes practically every day.  how much money do you have?
eighty dollars.
i have forty-two.  so that would definitely cover taxicabs, i think.
but how am i going to get there?
do you want an aisle or a window seat?
window.
do you want a fruit plate?
i do not know.  do i?
I would rather die than eat on an airplane.  I am telling them you are twelve so you can fly unaccompanied and they will not make you be carried around by a stewardess and everything.
you go.
ever since christmas, you have been different.  kind of distracted, distant.  but i feel like you are coming back from wherever you were.
i am.  i was just... i just got... i think i got nervous.  it is normal, right? do not you ever feel nervous about, you know?
what?
about forever.
no.
well, i did.  and you know what i think? i think that it was almost... too perfect.
do not hate me but i love this pattern.
you couldn't.
i do.
it is just like my grandmother's china.
walter.
it was my mother's.
it is so beautiful.  it is just what i would have picked out if I would had every ring in the world to choose from.  you see what i mean.  there are people who would like a relationship to be full of surprises, but i am not one of them.  surprises are highly overrated.
have you seen my wallet?
it might be in the kitchen.
I am only going to be away one night, okay, and clarise will be here.  you will have a swell time.  you will watch a little geraldo, some nightmare on elm street 12, I will never know.
are you going with her?
yes.
i have to have a life.  i have to do things that i want with people my own age.  it is none of your business who i am going out with.  i do not give a good goddam if you are angry --
this is the one i like.
fine.  i will not say anything. you can marry count dracula.
thank you, jonah.  but the point is, i am not asking permission.
what is wrong with annie?
shut up.
shut up?  shut up???  mom never did that.  mom never said shut up to me.  mom never yelled at me.
this conversation is finished.
you said we could go to new york.
did not.
did too.
i can not know what i said, but we are not going.
I am not leaving this room until you say yes.
get out.
no.
goddammit, i am sick of this --
beautiful view, is not it?
walter, there is something i have to tell you --
what if i could not get to you?
i was scared of what you were gonna do.
when i found you?
if i did not go.
listen, have i ever done anything really stupid?
no.
i mean, so far, have i screwed it up for you?
no.
i can not believe you flew first class.
it was all they had.
i do not know what to say about it, walter.  it was a form of temporary insanity.  but i had to tell you about it because --
-- it was a betrayal.
yes.  but it was not really.  it was just...
so what happened?
i told you.  nothing --
at the top of the empire state building --
I am not at the top of the empire state building.  I am here.
not really.  look, annie, i love you.  let's leave that out of it.  i do not want to be someone you are settling for.  i do not want to be someone anyone settles for.  i have a life insurance policy, I am fully invested in growth stocks, i have a paid subscription to home rox office, i have no sexual diseases, i have been steadily employed in a part of the economy that is not soft, i have expectation in the way of inherited wealth, i dress nicely, i am a member of the private sector, an independent voter, i do not watch monday night football, the only thing wrong with me is that i am allergic to wheat, strawberries, penicillin, pollen, nuts and wool.  there are plenty of women who see me as the brass ring.  if you do not -- marriage is hard enough without bringing such low expectations into it, is not it?
oh, walter.  i do not deserve you.
i think that is what I am saying.
you okay?
yes.  some people will do anything to get out of going to a symphony.
oh!
what?
look!
maybe we will get a dog when we get back.
okay.
what do you mean, okay? would not you like a dog?
sure.
it is you.
it is me?
the one in the street.  i chased after you.
are you annie?
yes.
I am jonah.  that is my dad.  his name is sam.
hi, jonah.  sam.  and who is this?
howard.
howard.
