i do not know why you are so weirded out, this is not san quentin, it is just a nuthouse. most of these people do not even know where they are, they are not going to hurt you.
in a few minutes we are going to be in a room with a killer. that does not bother you?
hey, you are the one that wanted to major in journalism. anyhow, was not the guy something like twelve or thirteen when he did it, it was twenty-five years ago, he probably does not even remember it.
do you smell shit?
yeah.
my name's jerry woolridge.
nice to meet you. I am marsha dwiggins and this is theresa evans. she is here to take the pictures.
you all have a seat. is this all of you?
yes sir.
i think there must have been a little mix up. i told your sponsor or teacher or whatever he is, there could not be any pictures. it is s'posed to be just a little story or article or something, is not that right?
well, yeah, it is for the school newspaper. but it has pictures. i mean it is a regular paper, you know.
karl's real sensitive about having his picture made. he would not even be on the bulletin board for the easter collage.  melvin, would you get me a good hot cup with two sugar substitutes? you girls want some coffee?
no thank you.
the other thing is i told your boss on the phone to send a man. karl will not talk to women.
i do not know what to tell you. I am sorry. i made myself pretty clear i thought. he probably got busy and was not thinking. i know how that is. i used to teach shop and eighth grade science.
well, what do we do? we drove all the way out here.
let's just go, marsha.
no, we have to get this story.
i thought you would be happy to leave.
why will not he talk to women?
can not you talk to him? maybe talk him into it. I am a real good interviewer. just get me in the room with him.
melvin, go get karl and take him down to the old classroom.
you see, karl, growing up, only knew that sex was wrong and that people who did it should be killed for it. he could not really read but, well, neither could his mother. but, his father made sure that his mother knew what the bible said. and she made sure karl knew. you know he slept in a hole in the ground under a toolshed, right?
i knew he slept in a toolshed.
his mother told him that he was their punishment. hers and his father's; from god, for having sex--
before they were married?
i do not think so. just period, i think. she told him... god gave them the ugliest creation he could think of. karl has an entire book -- a notebook. on every page it says "franklin chapter 1 verse number 1." he wrote that a few years ago after he would learned to write. his father's name was franklin.
that is really strange. what does it mean?
one of his daddy's bible lessons i imagine. you all pull up a chair. I will go out and talk to him.
but, here's the thing. he will only talk to you. he does not want you to ask him anything. and you should not stare at him.
how am i going to conduct an interview if i can not ask him any questions?
it is the best you are going to get. I am sorry.
can i ask you a question? if he is so troubled, why are you letting him out? what if he does it again? it happens all the time.
he is free. his time's up. that is the rules. he is been treated and reevaluated. he does not show any signs any more.
signs?
homicidal signs. oh, we are going to change the light in here for karl. i hope you can see to write.
is he leaving right this minute?
we have got some paperwork to take care of. pretty soon. do not worry, you will not run into him in the parking lot.
i did not mean that.
i hope the best for you, miss dwiggins, with your school and your paper and all.
where will he go?
wherever he wants to. i think he is going back to millsburg where he is from. it is just about twenty miles from here.
will he be supervised?
as much as anybody else is, i guess. you all have a good rest of the day now.
i reckon I am going to have to get used to looking at pretty people.
yes, i guess you are.
i reckon I am going to have to get used to them lookin' at me, too.
you better go get your things.
i am not got nothing but them books.
you better go get 'em.
all right then.
can i help you?
i was kindly wantin' somethin' or 'nother d'eat.
well, what did you want?
you have any biscuits for sale?
naw, we do not have biscuits.
did you decide, sir?
what you got that is good to eat?
well, i guess it is all good.
what do you like to eat here?
french fries. i like to eat them pretty good.
french-fried potaters.
yeah.
how much you want fer 'em? I will get some of them i reckon.
sixty for small and seventy-five for large.
give me the big'uns.
these dang things are heavy. hard to carry, too.
what you got in there, warshing?
yeah.
am not you got no mama and daddy to tend to it?
i got a mama, but she is at work over at ben's dollar store. my daddy's dead.  he got hit by a train.
how fer you going with them sacks full of warsh?
about a half a mile i think it is.
I will help you tote 'em if i do not give out first.
okay. you do not have to though.
my name is frank wheatley. what is your name?
karl's my name.
what is you last name?
childers.
what are all them books?
different ones. one's the bible. one of 'ems a book on christmas. one of 'ems how to be a carpenter.
how come you are carryin' them around with you.
am not got nowhere to set 'em down.
do not you live somewhere?
i did live there in the state hospital.
why did you live there?
i killed some folks quite awhile back. they said i wadn't right in the head and they put me in there in the nervous hospital instead of puttin' me in jail.
they let you out?
yeah.
how come?
they told me i was well. they had to turn me loose.
are you well?
i reckon i feel all right.
you do not seem like you would kill nobody.
do you like to play football?
i never was much count at it. i never did get picked out fer it.
me and the burnett twins and some boys plays down at the junior high practice field all the time. if you ever want to come by and play. we am not no good either. well, I will see you later.
karl, what in the world are you doing here?
i want to come back and stay here.
well, you can not do that. you are a free man. you have been let out to do as you please.
i reckon i do not care nothin' about bein' a free man. i do not know how to go about it.
well, you have to learn. it will take some time. do not you know anybody down there to help you out?
naw.
your daddy's still livin' down there from what you told me.  i guess he would not help you any, would he? i was not thinking. you do not know anybody?
naw. never did know too much of nobody. not to he'p me out anyway.
listen, karl, the truth is i do not know where they expect you to go or what they expect you to do. if it was up to me, I would let you stay here if that is what you wanted. I am just doin' my job.  you follow me?  listen, i know an old boy that runs a fix-it shop deal down in millsburg. he used to go to church with me. you are good workin' on small engines and things. if i put my neck out for you with him, will you work at it if he will hire you?
I am pretty handy i reckon on lawn mowers and whatnot.
i know, I have seen it myself. would you give that a try?
i reckon.
i can not promise he will hire you. I will have to tell him about your history.
i never was no good with history.
no, i mean your past. about why you were in here.  I will take you first thing in the mornin'. you have anyplace you can stay tonight at all? i just can not let you stay here. it is the rules. if something happened well, I would be liable.
i reckon i can just walk around till the mornin'. or set and read me a book somewhere.
she is talkin' about me, karl. that is my first name.
he is a-carryin' me to look fer work in millsburg where i was borned.
karl, you up?
yes sir.
did not you go to sleep at all, karl? you been sittin' there like that all night?
yes sir.
well, i guess we better hit the road.
hey jerry, how it is goin'. good to see you. been a long time.
good to see you, bill. how is everybody doin'?
aw, pretty good. kids are drivin' me crazy and phyliss is going to put me in the poorhouse. can not complain other than that. would not do any good if i did.  do you know scooter, jerry?
no, do not guess i do.  scooter, good to meet you.  this is him, the one i talked to you about on the phone. now like i said, I will understand if you get nervous about it. I am not going to lie to you now, he did get in that trouble but then he was real young.
i remember it real well. cut them folks to pieces. his mama one of 'em.
do not look much like he could. you say he can fix a small engine like nobody's bidness.
he is a regular whiz at it. that is all he did when he was a kid.
well, i am not scared of him workin' here. you know me. I am a church goin' man. forgivin' man. when your time's up the lord's going to come git you. you seared of him, scooter?
that old man of his still livin' over there on clark street i believe.
he will not have anything to do with him. now you say it is all right for him to stay out here in the back?
fine with me. if he steals anything, I will take it out of your pocket anyway.
he will not steal. I am tellin' you he is a pretty good old boy. keeps to himself.
well, I have got a roomful of work for him to do. can not get scooter to do any of it.
karl, come over here. i want you to meet your new boss.  this is bill cox, runs this place. says you can work here and stay in the back.
good to know you, karl.
thank ye.
now it is minimal wage and there am not nothin' but a army cot and a toilet back there.
they say you are a whiz on fixin' lawn mowers and things.
I have tinkered around on 'em a little bit.
we order from dairy queen at noontime usually. we can buy your lunch till you get on your feet a little.
i like them french-fried potaters.
yeah, me too.
all right then, I will see you all later. karl you done a good day's work. they right about you. scooter, he is going to knock you out of a job if you are not careful. I will see you tomorrow.
wait up, I will leave with you and lock up.
karl, they's a blanket up in under that cot and soap in the bathroom to clean up with.  now there is one more thing. the way we lock these doors at night, you can not get out. you did not want to go anywhere, did you?
i do not reckon.
if it works out and all, maybe we will get you a key so you can get out at night if you need to. see you later.
scooter, did i tell about the two old boys pissin' off the bridge?
i can not remember.
there was these two old boys hung their peckers off of a bridge to piss, one old boy from california and one old boy from arkansas. old boy from california says, "boy this water's cold." old boy from arkansas says "yeah, and it is deep too."  get it? that is a goodun.
yeah, that is a goodun. i believe you did tell me that one before. I have heard that a bunch. long time ago.
well, yeah it is a classic. you know, karl, i got to thinkin' about it last night and it is just not christian of me to not let you have a key. i mean you been in lockup so long, you do not need me keepin' you locked up. you need to come and go as you please. here, take this key, it will get you in and out that back door.  them french fries good?
yeah, they's good all right.
you got any money?
they give me fifty dollars when they turned me loose. i spent up some of it on ridin' the bus and eatin' french-fried potaters.
well, I am going to pay you today for this comin' week, so you will have some walkin' around money. when you get off this evenin' you better go buy some toothpaste and cleanin' up supplies to have back there. some hard candy and some magazines. somethin' to keep you busy at night.
all right then.
I will let you off while it is still daylight.
hey there. i thought i heard somebody on the porch. was not your name karl?
yeah it is. your name's frank.
yeah. what you doin' by here?
you told me to come by.
did you want to play ball with us?
i am not no good at it. i just come by.
well, anyhow, i was just fixin' to go see my mama down at ben's dollar store. she is workin' two till eight.
all right then.
wait a minute. you want to go with me? you can meet my mama.
i do not want to worry your mama with company.
aw, come on. you will like her. she is real nice. she will give us somethin' if we ask her to. candy or somethin'.
i was kindly needin' to do some tradin'. reckon they sell toothpaste?
they sell some of everything. come on let's go. i will not tell her about you bein' in the state hospital for killin'.
hey, mama. hey, vaughan.
hey, sweetheart. what you up to?
frank, do not talk that way. who is that strange lookin' man behind you? did he follow you in here?
can i help you, sir?
oh, that is karl. i met him at the laundrymat. karl, this is my mama. and vaughan, vaughan's the manager. he lets mama off any time she feels like it 'cause they are best friends.
nice to meet you, karl.
i do not think I have ever seen you before.
naw, i do not believe you have. i do not reckon i never been in here. this store did not used to be here.
it is been here seventeen years. did you live here before or something?
i's horned and raised here up till i's twelve year old.
what brings you back?
what is that you say?
why are you here now?
they turned me loose from the state hospital.
is that right?  are you going to be staying here long?
i reckon mr. woolridge got me hired on to work for bill cox's outfit.
do you have family here?
not really to speak of.
hey karl, guess what. mama said you can stay with us. out in the garage. our car will not fit in there anyway. it is real neat.
frank told me about your situation. and frank loves company. you know, especially after his daddy passed and all. there am not no sense in you stayin' in that old greasy shop.  he is mentally retarded, poor thing.
he just got out of the state hospital.
i know.
are you sure it is safe to let him around that guy?
frank's just crazy about him. he likes the way he talks. he helped him carry home the clean laundry.
he is been in the state hospital a long time, something must be wrong with him.
he is retarded's all. you know he is always after a father figure and lord knows doyle am not a good one with his mean ass.
what about me?
i do not think he sees you as a guy guy.
karl is a guy guy?
this is what i call my secret place 'cause i come out here when i feel like bein' by myself. i used to come here with karen cross. she is kind of like my girlfriend, or used to be. she says she likes jerry maroney now. but I am going to get her back 'cause i love her. we used to come here and hold hands and talk and read books to each other with a flashlight. she did not want to have anything to do with me in front of other people 'cause i do not have any money. well, mama and me, i mean. she seemed to like me a whole lot when we were out here though. she said she loved me, too. out here. settin' right on that stump you are on. see, her daddy's a dentist so they are rich. so's jerry maroney's daddy. he owns the ice plant. was your folks well off?
naw. did not have too much. enough to scrape by on, i reckon.
they still around, your folks?
my mother's dead. my daddy's s'posed to be around still. he do not want to have nothin' to do with me though.
how do you know?
he never did want to. i figure he am not changed his mind much.
how did your mama die?
you do not need to know all of that. you are just a boy. you need to think about good thoughts while you are still a boy. they will be plenty of time for the other.
I have had a lot of bad thoughts since my daddy died. sometimes i wish i was still real little and he was still here. my mama's real good, but i wish i had both of 'em.  when we went to memphis one time in the car, it was rainin' so hard we could not see the road. but i wadn't scared because i thought as long as daddy was drivin' nothin' could happen to us. i feel that way about mama now.  mama has a boyfriend now. his name is doyle hargraves. he works construction so he makes a pretty good livin'. he still do not help mama out with any money though. he am not no good. he is mean to her. he do not like me at all. mama says it is because he is jealous i belong to my daddy instead of him. he stays with us all night sometimes, but he is got his own house. somebody told me it is so he can still have other girlfriends. i like it on the nights when he am not at our house. I am not so nervous then.
how come her to keep bein' girlfriends and all with him if he is mean to her?
she says it is for the times when he is good to her. she is lonely since daddy died. she said sometimes she do not know why.  he threatened to kill her if she ever left him. my daddy would kill him if he was here and somebody was mean to mama. vaughan, he is real good to mama. vaughan that you met. but he is not able to do anything to doyle, he is funny you know. not funny ha, ha, funny queer. he likes to go with men instead of women. that makes him not to be able to fight too good. he sure is nice though. he is from st. louis. people who are queer can get along better in a big town. he got transferred here to work. but mama said the real reason he left is 'cause his daddy hated him. for bein' the way he is. i wish he liked to go with women. I would rather him be mama's boyfriend than doyle.
karl.  you know when i said daddy got hit by a train.
yeah, i remember you a-tellin' me that.
it am not the truth. he shot hisself with a shotgun on purpose.
why did he do that, reckon.
'cause he did not have enough money to take care of us the way he wanted to. that is what the letter said. he got laid off from work and had to just work odd jobs. i thought he took care of us fine.  karl, did you really kill somebody?
yeah, i did.
who did you kill?
two people.
were they bad people?
i thought they was.
maybe they needed it.
i growed up and got taught it am not right to kill nobody.
it is okay if you are lookin' out for yourself. if it is self-defense. was it self-defense?
now, karl, you sure you want to go stay with these folks? you are welcome to keep on stayin here. it is workin' out real good.
that boy wants me to.
all right then. I will see you bright and early. how you comin' along on that garden tiller?
i fixed it. hit's a workin' pretty good.
you done fixed it? I will be damned. scooter told me it could not be fixed. 'course scooter's about as shitless as one poor son-of-a-bitch can be. you done fixed it. I will just be damned. see you tomorrow.
well, honey, i do not guess i give a shit. i am not here half the time anyway. if you want a retard livin' in the garage, i do not guess i care. I have got a good tool box and socket set out there i do not want stol'd. i guess i could take it home with me.
he is real honest. he would not steal nothin'.
now son, i wadn't talkin' to you, was i?  was i?
no sir.
no sir's right. I am talkin' to your mama. this is your mama's decision, not yours. I am lettin' it go on because she asked me, not you.  now is this the kind of retard that drools and rubs shit in his hair and all that, 'cause i have trouble eatin' around that kind of thing. just like i am about antique furniture and midgets. i can not so much as drink a glass of water around a midget or a piece of antique furniture. same thing with a droolin' retard.
doyle, you are awful. you should not be that way.
i am not sayin' it is right. I am just tellin' the truth. what was he in the nuthouse for?
he is just mentally retarded, i guess.
he had of went nuts and did somethin'. they do not put you in there for just bein' a retard. they's retards all over the place that am not in the nuthouse. do you know, frank?
i am not sure.
you might want to find out. he might of hacked his family to pieces with a hatchet or somethin'.
yeah, that is right, frank, you better ask him. i mean, do not hurt his feelin's or anything, but it would be good to know. I am sure it is nothin'. he seems real sweet.
you sure are hung up on people bein' sweet.  speakin' of which, where is your girlfriend? i thought he was comin' by here for something.
he will be here in a little while, he is takin' me to get an ice cream.
am not that the sweetest thing. what am i supposed to do about supper with you traipsin' around with that fag?
you are not crippled. get in there and make somethin'.
boy, am not you somethin' else. talkin' back and everything. it kinda makes me horny when you talk back.
frank, why do not you go off and play in your room if doyle's going to talk nasty.
i want to watch t.v.
yeah, honey, let the kid watch t.v. hell, let's all watch t.v. like a family till your retarded friend and your homosexual friend gets here.
yes sir.
so, you are really going to stay here?
that boy wants me to.
did you knock on the door yet?
naw, i ain't.
how long have you been standing here?
quite a spell, i reckon.
listen, before you get very used to staying here, i think you and i need to talk about a few things. can i take you to lunch?
i done et just a little bit ago.
i mean tomorrow or the next day.
i reckon i can stand to eat a little somethin' or 'nother at noontime tomorrow. bill cox generally gets me a box of french fried potaters. but i reckon he can lay off doin' it tomorrow.
okay, I will come by mr. cox's and get you at noon.
hey, vaughan. how are you, karl?
tolerable, i reckon.
karl, this is my boyfriend, doyle. frank, why do not you and karl go out in the garage and fix him up a place or play a game or somethin'. vaughan, you ready to go?
sure, i guess.
do not rush ever'body, honey.
maybe you and karl want to go with us?
naw, i do not want to. me and karl got things we need to do.
hey, vaughan, you know what i heard? i heard you been puttin' it to albert sellers that works over at the funeral home.
i know albert. we are friends.
i heard you was more than friends. i heard dick rivers caught you all all bowed up and goin' at it in the same room with poor, little, old mizz ogletree and her dead as a doornail layed out on a gurney.
that is ridiculous. that is just a total lie.
let's go, vaughan.  frank, we will be back in a little while. I will bring you back somethin'. you are food's in the oven warmin' over.
see, you made him somethin'. hey vaughan, i was just goin' on with you, jokin' around, buddy.
come on, karl, let's go out to the garage.
goddamnit, I am talkin' to the man. you set right there, karl.
what is in your bag?
this and that. toothpaste and whatnot.
what is all them books?
different ones. the bible's one of 'em.
you believe in the bible?
a good deal of it, i reckon. can not understand all of it.
well, i can not understand none of it. this one begat this one and that one begat this one and begat and begat and begat and lo somebody sayeth some shit or another. just how retarded are you?
stop it, doyle!
you be quiet, frank, we are talkin'. the adults are talkin'. were you in the lockup for cuttin' somebody up with a hatchet?
i am not never used no hatchet that i remember.
you are just crazy in a retarded kind of way then.  it would not matter to me if you did do violence on somebody 'cause i am not afraid of shit. you think I am afraid for you to stay here. you are just a humped over retard it looks like to me. not really, I am just jokin' with you. welcome to our humble home, buddy. frank needs all the friends he can get. frank's a real weak little kid. his daddy taught him how to be a pussy.
stop it, doyle! do not talk about daddy, you hear me!
do not talk about daddy. you all go on to the garage and let me be.
I would like to kill that son of a bitch. i hate him.
you ort not to talk that way. you are just a boy.
well, i hate him.
he ort not to talk that away to you neither. he am not no count. he is mean to you and your mama.  yore mama and that feller that is carryin' me to get somethin' d'eat's going to be back here directly.
will you stay here with us for a long time?
i reckon if you want me to.  i got some of that potted meat and sodie crackers left over if you want some.
i do not see how you can eat that stuff with all those insides it is made out of.
i reckon it tastes pretty good to me.
i like the way you talk.
i like the way you talk.
okay, karl, the reason i brought you here was to talk to you about something that is on my mind.  i guess I will put it right out on the table. where do i start. linda and frank are very important to me. they are like family. my own family was never like family. they are horrible people. as a matter of fact i prayed every night for years that my father would die. i finally realized through a lot of therapy that i was wasting my energy on hating him. now i just do not care.  you see, you and i are a lot alike, strange as that may seem. i mean not physically or even mentally really, just well, maybe emotionally or actually the hand we have been dealt in life. we are different. people see us as being different anyway. you are -- well you have your affliction or whatever and i, well mine's not as easy to see. I am just going to say it. I am gay.  does that surprise you?  that I am gay. you know what being gay is, do not you?
i reckon not.
homosexual. i like men. sexually.
not funny, ha, ha, funny queer.
well that is a very offensive way to put it. you should not say that. you were taught that, were not you?
I have heard it said that way.
anyway, it is hard to live gay, that is the right way to say it, in a small town like this. I have wanted to leave many times, but my love for linda and frank and another certain person that we will not go into have kept me from it. anyway, I am rambling. if you are going to live in the wheatly garage you need to know that it will not be easy. doyle is a monster. not just a closed minded redneck, but a monster. a dangerous person. I have told linda that one day that man is going to really hurt her or that boy. maybe even kill one of them. i see it in his eyes. I am very in tune, maybe even psychic. doyle will make your life hell. you are a perfect target. when i first saw you i was afraid of you. not really afraid, i guess, just taken aback. but also, i felt a real sensitive feeling from you. and for some reason, frank has adopted you. much like a stray animal. I am sorry, i did not mean it like that. in a good way. anyway, i just want you to know what you are in for. i have a good feeling about you. you are good for frank. maybe it is that he can have an adult friend on a child's level. I am sorry, i did not mean it in a bad way.  there is one more thing. it is none of my business why you were in the state hospital. everyone has something in their past, maybe you tried suicide, maybe you did something -- terrible. but what i see before me is a gentle, simple man. all i want you to promise me is that you are capable of being around linda and frank. you know. you would never hurt them under any circumstances, would you?
i would not never hurt them.
that is what i thought. i hope i have not offended you in any way. you seem like a thinker. you seem to always be in deep thought. tell me something. what are you thinking right now?
i was thinkin' i could use me another helpin' of these potaters.
oh. how about before that?
before that i was thinkin' it would be good if i could get another three or four cans of that potted meat if you got any extry.
how come karl will not eat here with us?
i do not know. he just said he would eat out there.
well, i would not let it get to you.
i just feel sorry for the poor thing.
who could eat with him settin' there makin' that goddamn racket with his throat.
he does make some funny noises.
i sure like the way he talks. it sounds like a race car motor idlin'. it makes me not be nervous.
I am glad of it, honey.
what have you got to be nervous about? you are a damn kid. you am not got any bills to pay or bidness to run or old lady to stay on your ass all the time.
i get nervous, that is all i know.
you know what, by god?
what?
you know what we ought to do tonight?
please doyle, don't.
have a damn party! call morris and them and get the band together and just party our asses off. I would like to show that fuckin' karl to the guys. they would get a kick out of that. do not you know they would.
please don't. not tonight. I am not up for it. they always stay till mornin'. I am just give out, doyle.
you do not have to do anything but pour some potato chips in a bowl and bring beers out when we get low.
last time you got mad and run morris and them off and said to stay away from here.
that am not none of your damn bidness. besides that is the way friends do one another. fuck it, I am going to go call 'em. honey, find my guitar, i think it is out there in the garage with that loony tune.
karl, now listen, there is going to be a party tonight here at the house. doyle's invited his music-playin' buddies over to make a bunch of racket out on the patio.
they am not even no good. the only one can play is randy horsefeathers. he claims he is an indian. his real name's randy collins and he works at the feed mill. he can at least play guitar.
he is no more an indian than i am though. anyhow, doyle's going to try and tease you and be mean to you to show off to his friends. just like he does to frank and me sometimes. you just ignore it. or stay out here away from 'em if he will let you. he is an okay guy till he gets drunk but tonight he will get drunk. i guarantee it.
he am not ever okay to me.
well, it is on! we are going to rock. linda, call vaughan. tell him to get over here. I would like him to be here. i owe him a good time.
no doyle. vaughan do not want to come to a party with you.
too late, honey. fooled you. done called him. he will be here.  or I will go get him. come on karl, i need you to help me ice down a tub of beer, you and frank.
okay ladies and gentlemen  or both. it is come to the time in our show when we like to introduce the band. over here on lead guitar mr. randy horsefeathers. come on hit a hot lick, randy.  well, come on, you all are supposed to clap now. come on!
karl, you better clap your hands or he will just keep on.
on the bass, give it up for terence "one ball" atkins.  on the tambourine and lyrics morris hobbs the fuckin' genius of the group.  on drums "the johnson."  and last and most importantly, doyle hargraves on rhythm guitar and business affairs and the only motherfucker with a truck big enough to haul this outfit on the next world fuckin' tour. come on, a big hand for these guys. they are workin' their asses off here.  okay I would like to dedicate this next one to some very special people in our audience tonight. to my lovely female companion linda, her lovely son frank, our new boarder karl - what is your last name karl?
childers.
karl childers just in from the state facility. make one of them gruntin' sounds karl or whatever it is you do.  oh well, karl's a little retarded, he do not know what the hell I am talkin' about. and to vaughan who fucks a mortician in the rear entrance right in front of his clients. now that takes balls. our number one tune for the folks, boys. kick it off johnson!
you like that vaughan?
sure. it sounded like a number one tune all right.
you enjoying yourself, karl?
I would better go on home now, it is late. i have to work tomorrow.
come on, do not be a pussy. everybody has to work.
he do not want to doyle. do not go vaughan if you do not want to. you will wreck doyle, you are drunk.
but honey, I will be good. i promise. i love you sweetie. I am just tryin' to help these two be part of things.
are you sure you can drive? you have really had a lot of alcohol.
shhhh! this is the national anthem.
hey freddy, what is goin' on boy. i seen your pitcher in the paper for catchin' that big-ass bass.
yeah she was a big 'un. you am not drunk drivin' are you doyle?
yeah.
i figured that. well you better be careful with that cripple in the back. you will throw him out. looks like you got a wagonful.
we run outta somethin' to drink. goin' to the county line. you want to race?
you know better than that. we are on duty. catch me in that camaro next week one night.
catch you later freddy!
i bet you like sittin' between two men in a dual wheel truck do not you?
oh, yeah, I am thrilled.
sarcastic right?  you know the boys in the band are probably going to stay over tonight. we would be glad to have you.
you got that shit right.
what exactly do you mean by that? i do not understand.
i do not really understand the meaning of the words.
if you all do not shut up I am going to go out of my mind. and plus you are liable to bust a spring in karl's head. he is already off balance.
we do not have a goddamn band! you all just shut the fuck up! we do not need no practicin' or managers cause we am not no fuckin' band! morris am not no genius and the rest of you are just losers. am i the only one sane human bein' around here? just get the hell out of my house and do not come back!
it is not your house, doyle, it is linda's.
I will kill you, you fuckin' faggot! you mind your own business. now get out! now, before i get too mad to turn back.
i thought i told everybody to get out of my house. that includes cocksuckers and retards. get off your asses and go.
this is not your house, doyle. this is my house and I will say who stays and goes. you have got a house, why do not you go get one of your girlfriends and go home to it.
you know better than to talk like that when I am hurtin'. do not make me knock the piss out of you.
doyle, do not you lay one hand on her.
that is funny.  you go to bed and take snot nose with you.
you are not stayin' here tonight. go get sober before you come back. I am tired of my child seein' this. now you get yourself straight or I will lock your ass out of my life for good.
you know what i told you, you even think of leavin' me, I will kill you dead as a doornail.
that might be better than this.
I am a witness. i heard you threaten her life.
i thought i told you to keep out!
leave.
do not tell me what to do.
leave.
do not tell me what to do.
leave.
do not tell me what to do.
leave.
do not tell me what to do.
okay, I will leave and sober up. everything's botherin' me, that is all. I am hurtin' linda. i love you.
i hate you!
well, i hate you, too. no i don't. i love your mama. nobody understands what i go through. I will leave. you bunch of freaks have fun. I will call you tomorrow honey. I am sorry. you can kiss my ass, really.  you ever hit me again you little bastard and I will make you sorry your daddy ever squirted your little ass out.
you all right, mama?
I am fine, honey. let's just try and forget about tonight.
we do not need to think bad thoughts, do we mama?
no, honey, we don't.  I will make some coffee and start cleanin' up this mess. karl, you want some coffee, huh?
what are you doin' up again, frank? you need to get a little sleep.
did vaughan go home?
yeah, he has to go to work in a little while. i do too.
did karl go to bed?
i guess. he went to the garage. poor thing, he is probably never seen such a crazy mess. he probably wants to go back and live in mr. cox's shop.
i bet he don't. karl likes me.
i know he does.
mama?
huh?
is everything gonna be all right someday? i just stay nervous all the time just about.
yeah, honey, someday everything's going to be all right.
doyle would not really kill you, would he?
i promise we are going to get away from him. the time has to be right, that is all. I would rather him get tired of me and leave me. then he would not want to hurt me. he would not care then. we will be fine. i promise. you go to bed now.  i love you.
i love you, too, mama.
you scared me.
i did not aim to.
want to sit down? did you need somethin'?
no ma'am.
two fellers was on a bridge a takin' a leak and one feller says the water was cold and the other said it was deep water. one of 'em came from arkansas, i believe.
I will be dog.
do you reckon you can make me some biscuits?
right now?
just whenever you take a notion to. i do not aim to put you out.
well, it is nearly breakfast time anyway. i can not go to sleep. i have to be at work in three hours. you know how it is when you just sleep an hour or two, you feel worse than if you had not slept at all?
yes ma'am.
well, set down and I will make some biscuits and gravy.
mustard's good on 'em to me.
okay.
thank ye.
it is all right.  you know i was thinkin' there is this girl that works with me. she is real heavy, but she is cute in the face. well, you know, she is slow. she is a little bit, i think. she is not retarded, just -- it do not matter, listen to me. i thought you might like to meet her. vaughan wants to have a little supper over at his house and we could invite her. would you like that?
i would not mind a havin' supper.
vaughan's "friend" will be there, too. he works at the funeral home. and frank. you know frank likes you a lot. he says you make him feel calm.
i like frank. he is a good boy. me and him's made friends.
hit am not right for me to keep from tellin' you how come me to be put in the state hospital.
that is okay. it is not really my business. i have wondered though. why was it? was it like a nervous breakdown?
i killed my mother and a old boy name jesse dixon. i thought they was a-doin' wrong. i was about your boy's age. they say I am well now from it.
was that you? i remember that. i was only three or four, but i always heard about it growin' up.  they say you are well?
yes ma'am.  i like your garage.  i would not never hurt you or your boy. I would lay my hand on the bible and say the same thing.
i believe you. i really do.
how 'bout you, jerry.
how are you, bill?
doin' pretty good. got a sick tiller here. what is got you down this way?
just thought I would check on karl and see if everything's working out.
well, he is pretty quiet. except for them rackets and breathin' things he does. am not threatened me with a killin' or anything.  but boy you could not of been more right about him fixin' things. that son of a bitch is a regular eli whitney on a lawnmower. loves french fries. eats four larges and do not even so much as belch. I am proud to have him.
is him stayin' here workin' out?
he is gone to stayin' over with that wheatley boy and his mama in their garage. i think that little boy adopted him damn near like a mascot. but he is got a key here to come and go as he pleases. everything's worked out good.
can i see him?
sure.
are you sure you are okay staying with that woman and boy?
yes sir.
do they know about you?
my history.
yeah.
i told 'em about it. they know I am well. that mizz wheatley made me some biscuits.
I will be.
that boy, he is my friend. he likes the way i talk and i like the way he talks.
i knew you would do all right. well, i just wanted to check on you. I will say bye to bill and get on back.
I will see you, bill.
okay, stop back by. do not worry about your boy here, he is doin' good.
hit am not got no gas in it.
see there. thinks of the simplest thing first.
i think karl is going to be a writer or a librarian eventually. you should see all the books he has. he must read constantly.
i am not read 'em yet except two or three of 'em. i can not understand a lot of what i try to read. my mind, hit wonders off to somethin' else when i try to read.
good. i have not decided yet if I am a good cook.
hey karl, you know what? melinda was voted employee of the month at the dollar store last february. is not that somethin'?
yes ma'am, i reckon.
well, when you like pricing items as much as i do, i guess it is just bound to happen sooner or later.
karl, maybe you and melinda might want to take a walk or something after dinner. it is a nice night.
vaughan, do not get pushy.
I am sorry.
i like walkin' quite a bit from time to time.
i stay on my feet all the time at work. i just can not find shoes that is comfortable.
listen everybody, i know this may sound corny, I have had a few glasses of wine and that kind of makes me a little emotional, but I am going to say it anyway. it just came over me in a rush. i want you all to know that i care about each and every one of you at this table.
that is very sweet of you vaughan. we care about you, too. do not we y'all?
also, melinda, please do not tell anybody at the store that albert was here tonight, okay.
why?
well, a lot of people in town talk and spread cruel rumors. unfortunately, i have to keep certain parts of my life private.
you mean about you all bein' together in "that" way?
yes.
i think everybody at the store knows that already. they always talk about it. maureen ledbetter told a awful story about why you am not allowed over at the first baptist church no more.
karl, why do not you and melinda go take a walk. it is nice out.
all right then.
you walk fast, do not you?
i reckon.
these is the worst shoes i own for walkin'. how far did you want to go?
i am not really thought about it too much i do not reckon.
thank ye.
scooter, let's me and you go over to dairy queen and pick up a few things for lunchtime.
i can go. you do not have to. you do not never go.
goddamnit, scooter, come on. pardon my language, ma'am.
a blister shore can hurt.
yeah.
flowers is pretty. I have always thought that.
me, too.
hey karl, you off work?
yeah.
where did you get them flowers?
that gal that made employee of the month give 'em to me for awalkin' with her.
i was goin' to the secret place. i borried one of your books to take down there. you am not mad, are you?
naw. you can look at all my books you want to.
it is name's a christmas carol.
that is than un on christmas i was tellin' you about.
you want to go with me?
yeah.
I am gettin' tired of readin' for a while.
all right then.
boy, folks sure had it rough back a long time ago, did not they?
yeah, i reckon they did. hit like to tore me up when i read about that pore little cripple boy.
yeah, me too.  that was nice of that woman to give you them flowers.
hit was right thoughty of her.
i was wantin' to ask you somethin'.
all right then.
you know that girl i told you about. the one i love.
yeah, i recollect it.
would you go see her with me? i kind of thought i might take her some flowers like that woman done you.
if you want me to.
i am not got no money to get 'em with but i bet vaughan will let me have some of them flowers at the store.
i bet he will. i got a little money if he don't. I will get 'em for ye.
i usually get run off by her mama or daddy if they are home. reckon why they do not like me?
they ort to. you are a good boy.
just 'cause I am not rich do not mean i do not love her.
naw.
and i do not try to touch her. you know, in a bad way. foolin' around, sex and all.
that is real good. you ort not to if ye am not married to somebody. bible tells you that much. hit tells some things that do not seem right too, i reckon. i guess a feller ort to foller it close as he can, though.  you do not touch yourself, do you?
what do you mean?
pull on your works. your privates.
oh, jackin' off?
yes sir. you ort not know that language.
i did not know till here while back a year or two ago when i spent the night with ronnie smart one time. he said just tug on your peter and think about your mama. i tried it, but i felt funny thinkin' about my mama. so, i switched over to thinkin' about his mama and then what he told me would happen, happened. it sure tingles, do not it?
you ort not to pull on yourself that away.
i kind of like you tellin' me what to do and not to do. just like my daddy. i did not mind him tellin' me. i hate doyle to tell me what to do. mama said the only way to ever get away from him is for him to get away from us. that we can not leave him or he will try and hurt her.
he am not no count.
you do not seem like a daddy. you seem like a brother.  wonder what makes you like somebody right off when you do not even know 'em like what happened with me and you.
i do not reckon i know.
and then some people you do not like right off. it is funny.  you know why i want you to play ball with me?
naw.
'cause it is fun. it do not matter if you am not no good. it takes your mind off of everything else while you are doin' it. when you run real fast tryin' to make a touchdown you do not think about anything else. i am not no good, but my daddy always said he was proud of me when i threw a ball or ran with it. did you have any brothers and sisters growin' up to play with?
i had one there for little bit. hit did not get old enough to play with.
why not? it died?
yeah.
why?
hit was borned a little too early on. my mother and father made hit come too early some way or other. i reckon they changed their mind about havin' another'n. i was about six or eight year old then and they did not care too much for me so i reckon they did not need somethin' else to worry 'em with.
so it died when it come out?
my daddy come to the shed out back and got me and said throw this here away and handed me a towel with somethin' in it. i went for the trash barrel there and opened up the towel to see 'cause they was a noise and somethin' movin' in it. hit was bloody-like around that towel. hit was a little old bitty baby, no bigger than a squirrel.
it was alive?
yes sir. right then it was.
a boy or girl?
a little old boy.
you threw it in a trash barrel?
i did not feel right about doin' that. i takened a shoe box from there in the shed and emptied out some screwdrivers and nuts and warshers from it and put the little feller in that and buried him in the corner of the yard there. that seemed more proper to me, i reckon.
it was still alive when you buried it?
i heared it cryin' a little through that box.
that do not seem right. it seems like you should have kept him alive and took care of him if he was your brother.
i wadn't but six or eight. i reckon i did not know what to do. i did not know how to care for no baby. mama and daddy did not want him. they learned me to do what they told me to. these days i figure it might of been best to give him right back to the good lord right off the bat anyhow.
that makes me feel real sad. could not you have done somethin', karl? i would have. i wish i would of had him. he would be here right now. livin'.
hits been hard thinkin' about it. they am not a day goes by i do not think about it. i kindly have a picture of it up in my head that i see. hit makes me sad, too. i have bad thoughts on it. i wished they was somethin' i could of did, too. should not no bad things happen to childern. all the old bad things ort to be saved up for folks that is growed up, the way i see it. i should not of told you about that. a boy ort not hear about such things. it just kindly come out.
i did not mean to say anything bad about you. i know you are good. you did not mean no harm.  did you ever think about killin' yourself on purpose like my daddy did?
I have studied about it. the bible says not to or you end up goin' to hades. some folks calls it hell, i call it hades.
bible says the same thing about killin' others, too.
yes sir, i reckon it does.
hey frank. you should not be coming over here. my parents really do not want you to.
i wanted to bring you some flowers. they are pretty good ones.
they are from the dollar store. I am not an idiot. besides we have a garden full of flowers.
i wanted for you to meet karl, too. he is my new friend. but i feel like I have always known him. i thought you should meet him.
why? hi, karl.
he is going to be around a lot and i hope you are too, so...
here give me the flowers, I will do something with them. thank you. now you better go. maybe I will see you down at the secret place one day in a week or two or something. i have a boyfriend now you know. and we are pretty serious. he gave me a ring.
can you go there with us now? me and karl. we could just hang out. karl has some cool books.
frank, i just like you as a friend. only at the secret place. okay? i can not go there now. I will see you later.
but maybe just for awhile --
I am closing the door now. i told you, I will see you later.
she said she would see me later. that is kinda good, right?
i reckon.
well, at least he is tryin'. but who knows for how long.
he is lyin' mama. he am not going to do better.
i know honey. just remember what i said, we will bide our time. you just steer clear of him as much as you can. doyle's had a real hard life. it is just about run him crazy i think.
we have had a real hard life, too, mama.
you are a hell of a boy, frank. someday you are going to get all the good things you deserve. and karl here's going to get some more biscuits tonight. what do you think about that?
i could shore use some. thank ye.
what you readin'?
readin' on this book on how to work carpentry. i aim to learn how to build things out of wood one of these times. I have always been partial to wood buildin's and cabinets and whatnot. these drawin's they got here do not make no sense to me so far.  you seem like yore tails a'draggin' a might. you got somethin' wrong with ye?
seems like doyle's wormed his way back in. mama said he is stayin' over tonight and he is talkin' about movin' in for good. we am not ever going to be happy. we will always be nervous, will not we karl?
i do not reckon i know. i am not found no way yet and I am three or four times as old as you. might be that is just the way folks is.
i feel sad about karen cross, too. i just make like to myself she loves me. i know better, though. it just feels good to me when i imagine it.
make believin' always made me feel good too from time to time.
bill cox is goin' to a funeral for a mister turner tomorrow and a closin' up shop early.
is that right?
I will play ball with ye. i reckon if neither one of us is no count it will not make no difference.
you will? for sure?
yeah.
we will be on teams, me and you?
yessir.
way to go, karl. we got a touchdown. that was a good lateral, man. that was just like the wishbone.
i dern near had me a touchdown till them boys got a-hold of me there so i figured i better give it off to you. i seen you over there follerin' me.
we are liable to win if we keep this up. for somebody like you, you sure run fast.
i know you could of scored them three touchdowns by yourself instead of throwing 'em over to me.
them boys was tryin' to pull me down pretty hard.
you are strong though. you let me make them touchdowns so I would feel good. my daddy used to do that kind of thing.
it do not matter to me about us losin' does it to you?
no sir.
it was fun, anyhow.
i wadn't thinkin' about nothin' else just like you told me I would do.
can we play ever' saturday?
if i am not too stove up. i am not like you. I am old and give out.  I am proud of ye.
I am ye boy.
i am not got no boy.
I am ye oldest boy name karl.
i am not got no boy.
they turned me aloose from the nervous hospital. said i was well.
that grass out in the yard's all growed up. i figured i might cut it fer ye.
i told you, i am not got no boy, now get on out from here and let me be.
what in the goddamn hell are you doin'? it is the middle of the night.
what do you want, hun?
i want to be baptized.
baptized? well, get baptized then. i do not give a shit. call a fuckin' preacher, goddamnit! i can not baptize you.
we will go to church and get you baptized, tomorrow's sunday. you go on back to bed.
what are you doin' with that damn hammer?
how did your baptizin' go?
it went real good.
well, that is good. it is about time to eat and you know what I am cravin'? some of that take out chicken. why do not you run get some of it, honey, for lunch?
would you all like that?
yeah, i guess.
yes ma'am. i like a fried chicken leg.
all right, you all going to go with me?
naw, hell, let them stay here with me and do men things. there might be some kind of ball game on we can watch. you go on.
I will be back in a little bit then.
now here's the deal. now that I am going to throw my entire life away doin' what i want to come live here with y'all, we have to get a few things straight. see, frank, me and you mama would not have any problems if it wadn't for you. we would never have a bad word between us. but since you do exist, if I am going to be here as the head of the household, we will have to live by my rules. and my rules are you do not speak unless you are spoken to. stay out of my way and do what a regular kid does. you are a weird little shit. i do not get you. so wake up. face what they call reality. we are going to be a family now. and it is my family. I will be payin' the bills so you got me. but i am not your daddy. you just treat me like i am. I am the boss, okay. and the other thing is your friend karl has to go. we can not have a normal family with him livin' in the garage and comin' in the bedroom at four in the mornin' with hammers and shit. see?
karl can stay if he wants to. mama said --
do not hit that boy no more.
you shut up you, fuckin' retard. get your shit and get out of here.  that was a wake-up slap, frank. remember. reality, like i said. do not forget any bit of what i said to you and we will be fine.
where are you goin', karl? did not you want some chicken and things?
no ma'am. I am a'goin' off sommers.
well, okay. i got you some.
frank, he went off, too. he am not going to be in there when you get indoors.
where did he go? what is goin' on?
he wanted to go off and play, i reckon.  you go in there and you and that doyle eat ye dinner. you do not have to worry yourself none.
all right then. well, I will see you later. if you see frank, tell him to come on back home. i do not get to see him all day except sundays. he can play tomorrow.
ma'am?
yeah.
you are a good mama to that boy. you care for him. you work hard fer him to take care of him. you light him up in his eyes, I have seen it. he would not know what to do without ye.
well thank you, hun. that is real good of you to say. i would not know what to do without him either.
you have been real good to me, too. it am not ever'body that would make biscuits in the middle of the night. you and that boy has give me a good feelin'.
we sure like havin' you.
thank ye.  I am just getting around to tellin' you, but i fixed your warshin' machine.
hey, karl. how did you know to come out here?
i knowed you would be here.  what are you a-doin' digging with that stob?
just diggin'.  i am not ever going to be happy now. not with that son of a bitch movin' in for good. i wish me and you and mama could just run away. but she said he would find us wherever we went. he is crazy. sometimes i think it would of been better if i wadn't ever born.
I am glad of it you was borned.  i reckon i am not going to be there in the garage no more.
you have to karl. you have to look out for me. you do not let that son of a bitch run you off.
you are just a boy. you ort not to use that sort of language.
karl, i am not tryin' to say nothin' bad about you, but why do not you stop doyle when he gets that away? you are older than him. you are strong, too. my daddy would not let him do that to me and mama.
that feller's a whole sight meaner than me. he would just whup the tar out of me.
yeah, i guess so. I am real tired, you know that. a kid my age should not be tired of things.
I am tired, too, frank.  if i am not around no more, it do not mean i do not care fer ye. i care for ye a good deal. i care for you more than anybody they is. we made friends right off the bat.
i care for you, too. but you will be around, do not say that.
hit do not make no difference where i was to be. we will always be friends. there am not no way to stop that.  i aim for you to have these books.
maybe you can make more sense out of them than i can. i made you a little old book marker and stuck it in that book on christmas.
you do not want to give away all your books.
i aim fer you to have 'em.
man. thanks.  you know when you get a feelin' and you do not know why?
yes sir.
I have got a feelin' today.
reckon what kind of a feelin'?
like something different. i do not know.  you are leavin' am not you, karl?
will ye do somethin' for me if i ast you to?
you know i would. whatever you want.
do not go home tonight and stay with that doyle. he is got it in for ye tonight. i got me a feelin', too. feels like to me you ort not be there in that house with him liquored up and mean. ye mama neither. when you get up from here, i want you to go to that feller's house. your mama's friend. i want you to give me your word on it.
okay. i give you my word. is ever'thing going to be okay? are you all right?
ever'thing's okay, boy. i kindly want to put my arm around ye for a minute and then I am going to go on and leave here.
okay.
karl, what are you doing here? come in.
i am not a-stayin'. i need to ast you fer a favor.
okay.
this evenin' i want you to go get mizz wheatley and that frank and have them stay with you tonight.
what is wrong? is everything okay?
that dern doyle is in a bad way again with that drinkin' and bein' mean to folks. will you give me your word you will do it?
well, sure, okay. he has not hurt them, has he?
naw, not yet.  i want ye to give this to mizz wheatley. hit am not much, but maybe there is a little somethin' to hep out. hits what I have earned fixin' lawnmowers and whatnot fer bill cox.
what about you, karl? do you want to stay here?
i do not reckon you have to go with women to be a daddy to a boy.  you have been real square dealin' with me. the bible says two men ort not lay together. but I will bet you the good lord would not send nobody like you to hades. some folks calls it hell, i call it hades.  that boy lives inside of his own heart. hits an awful big place. you take care of that boy.
where is ever'body else? you seen 'em?  i thought i told you to get the hell moved out of here anyway.
how does a feller go about gettin' ahold of the police?
pick up the fuckin' phone and call 'em, i guess.
what numbers do you punch?
i told you to get away from here, did not i? I am tryin' to relax and look at tv.  what are you doin' with that piece of iron? i swear to god you are the weirdest son of a bitch i ever heard of.
i aim to kill you with it.
... on the third day i washed her. she was not very clean. i got all the right spots. she was the first one i ever kept for any length of time, you see i get bored easily, i have a short attention span. i can not say she enjoyed her stay, although the washcloth in her mouth held in place by good duct tape kept any complaints to a minimum. i do not really like people who talk a lot. i like to do the talking. i guess that is why I am so fond of you. you are so easygoing, although i do sense a little tension in you sometimes. by the way, how was it out there? did you have any fun? make any new acquaintances? tell me what it was like.
they was a boy. we made friends.
i bet you did. i was never bent that way. I am bent the other way. so, you liked it out there in the world.
it is too big.
well, it is not too big in here, is it?  i feel very generous today. i feel like listening. I am sure you have plenty to tell me. and please bore me with the details.  ) come on karl, who did you kill? was it the boy?
do not say nothin' about that boy.
