I will tell you why they are not going anywhere.
yeah? and why is that?
management. those guys are walking around with their heads up their asses.
okay, joke about it. i do not give a shit.
jesus, tommy, it am not science, you know. you got your good trades and your bad trades. that is how it works.
they did not have to do a thing, that is all I am saying. the team was good, the best fucking team in baseball. but then they had to screw it up.  they traded their birthright for a mess of porridge.  a mess of porridge.
how did you do out there, jimmy?
good, auggie. real good.  all finished.
it will never be finished.
huh?
that is how it is with sidewalks. people come, people go, and they all drop shit on the ground. as soon as you clean up one spot and move on to the next, the first spot is dirty again.
i just do what you tell me, auggie. you tell me to sweep, so i sweep.
hey, jimmy. you got the time?
huh?
you still have that watch auggie gave you?
tick-tock, tick-tock.
so what is the time?
twelve-eleven.  twelve-twelve.  twelve-twelve.
they do not come cheap, son. these little honeys are works of art. rolled by hand in a tropical climate, most likely by an eighteen year old girl in a thin cotton dress with no underwear on. little beads of sweat forming in her naked cleavage. the smooth, delicate fingers nimbly turning out one masterpiece after another...
and how much are these?
seventy-eight dollars. the girl who rolled these was probably wearing panties.
and these?
fifty-six.  that girl had on a corset.
and these?
forty-four. they are on special this week from the canary islands. a real bargain.
i think I will take them.
a good choice. you would not want to celebrate the birth of your firstborn with a box of stinkers, would you? remember to keep them in the refrigerator until you hand them out.
the refrigerator?
it will keep them fresh. if they get too dry, they will break. and you do not want that to happen, do you?  tobacco is a plant, and it needs the same loving care you would give an orchid.
thanks for the tip.
any time. and congratulations to you and your wife. just remember, though, in the immortal words of rudyard kipling: "a woman is just a woman, but a cigar is a smoke.
what does that mean?
damned if i know. but it has a nice ring to it, do not it?
hey, auggie. how is it going?
hey, man. good to see you. what will it be today?
two tins of schimmelpennincks. and throw in a lighter while you are at it.
the boys and i were just having a philosophical discussion about women and cigars. some interesting connections there, do not you think?
definitely.  i suppose it all goes back to queen elizabeth.
the queen of england?
not elizabeth the second, elizabeth the first.  did you ever hear of sir walter raleigh?
sure. he is the guy who threw his cloak down over the puddle.
i used to smoke raleigh cigarettes. they came with a free gift coupon in every pack.
seven eighty-five out of twenty.  take care of yourself now, and do not do anything i would not do.
i would not think of it.  see you around, fellas.
watch out, man. you will get yourself killed like that.
i can not believe i did that ... christ. I am walking around in a fog ...
no harm done. everything's okay now.  I have got to be going.
no, wait. you can not just walk off.  you saved my life.
i just happened to be there.  the right place at the right time.
i owe you something.
it is okay, mister. no big deal.
yes it is. it is a law of the universe. if i let you walk away, the moon will spin out of orbit ... pestilence will reign over the city for a hundred years.
well, if you put it that way...
you have to let me do something for you to put the scales in balance.
that is all right. if i think of something, I will send my butler over to tell you.
come on. at least let me buy you a cup of coffee.
i do not drink coffee.  on the other hand, since you insist, if you offered me a cold lemonade. i would not say no.
good. lemonade it is.  I am paul.
rashid. rashid cole.
are you sure you do not want some food to go along with it? it might help to absorb some of that liquid. you do not want to slosh around too much when you stand up.
that is okay. I have already had lunch.
you must eat lunch pretty early. it is only eleven o'clock.
i mean breakfast.
yeah, sure, and i bet you had lobster last night. along with two bottles of champagne.
just one bottle. i believe in moderation.
look, kid, it is okay with me. you do not have to play games. if you want a hamburger or something, go ahead and order it.
well, maybe just one. to be polite.
cocktail hour is over. the young man would like to order a hamburger.
how do you want that cooked?
medium rare, please.
fries?
yes, please.
lettuce and tomato?
yes, please.
you want another one of these, too?
yeah, give him another one. and I will take a cup of coffee while you are at it.
hot coffee or iced coffee?
do you have real iced coffee, or do you just pour hot coffee over some ice cubes?
everything is real in here, honey.  as real as the color of my hair.
I will take the iced coffee.  you only live once, right?
if you are lucky.  then again, it depends on what you call living.
i do not mean to pry, but i see a kid walking around with a big knapsack on his back, and i begin to wonder if all his worldly possessions are not stowed in there. are you in some kind of trouble or what?
mostly what.
you do not have to tell me if you do not want to, but i might be able to help.
you do not know me from a hole in the wall.
that is true. but i also owe you something, and I am not sure that buying you a hamburger is going to do the job.  what is it? family problems? money problems?
oh no. momsie and popsie have oodles.
and where do momsie and popsie live?
east seventy-fourth street.
in manhattan?
of course. where else?
then what are you doing in park slope? it is a little far from home, is not it?
that is where the what comes in.
the what?
the what.  I have kind of run away from home, you see.  it has nothing to do with my parents or money. i saw something i was not supposed to see, and for the time being it is best that i keep myself out of sight.
you can not be more specific than that?
here and there. around.
uh-huh. one of those cozy bed and breakfast places, probably.
yeah, that is right.
except that there is no bed, is there? and no breakfast either.
the material world is an illusion. it does not matter if they are there or not. the world is in my head.
but your body is in the world, is not it?  if someone offered you a place to stay, you would not necessarily refuse, would you?
people do not do that kind of thing. not in new york.
I am not "people." I am just me. and i do whatever i goddamn want to do. got it?
thanks, but I will manage.
in case you are wondering, i like women, not little boys. and I am not offering you a long-term lease -- just a place to crash for a couple of nights.
i can take care of myself. do not worry.
suit yourself. but if you change your mind, here's the address.
okay. i think everything's set.  you have got the number for cape cod, right? just in case something goes wrong.
no problem, vinnie. everything's under control.  i could run this store in my sleep.
how long you been working for me, auggie?
i do not know. thirteen, fourteen years. something like that.
it is pretty crazy, do not you think? i mean, a smart guy like you. what do you want to hang on to a dead-end job like this for?
i do not know.  maybe because i love you so much, boss.
shit. you should have been married to someone by now. you know, settled down somewhere with a kid or two, a nice steady job.
i almost got married once.
yeah, i know. to that girl who moved to pittsburgh.
ruby mcnutt. my one true love.
sounds like another one of your stories to me.
she upped and married some other cat after i joined the navy. by the time i got my discharge, though, she was divorced. her husband poked out her eye in a domestic quarrel.
lovely.
she made a play for me after i got back, but her glass eye kept interfering with my concentration. every time we got into a clinch, I would start thinking about that hole in her head, that empty socket with the glass eye in it. an eye that could not see, an eye that could not shed any tears. the minute i started thinking about it, mr. johnson would get all soft and small. and i can not see getting married if mr. johnson is not going to be in tiptop shape.
you do not take anything seriously, do you?
i try not to, anyway. it is better for your health. i mean, look at you, vincent. you are the guy with the wife and three kids and the ranch house on long island. you are the guy with the white shoes and the white caddy and the white shag carpet. but you have had two heart attacks, and I am still waiting for my first.
i should stop smoking these damn things is what i should do. the fuckers are going to kill me one day.
enjoy it while you can, vin. pretty soon, they are going to legislate us out of business anyway.
they catch you smoking tobacco, they will stand you up against a wall and shoot you.
tobacco today, sex tomorrow. in three or four years, it will probably be against the law to smile at strangers.
speaking of which, are you still going ahead with that deal on the montecristos?
it is all set. my guy in miami said he would have them within the next few weeks.  are you sure you do not want to go in with me? five thousand dollars outlay, a guaranteed ten-thousand-dollar return. a consortium of court street lawyers and judges. they are just drooling to get their lips around some genuine cuban cigars.
no thanks. i do not care what you do, but just make sure you do not get caught, okay? the last i heard, it was still illegal to sell cuban cigars in this country.
it is the law that is buying. that is what is so beautiful about it. i mean, when was the last time you heard of a judge sending himself to jail?
suit yourself. but do not keep the boxes around here long.
they come in, they go out. I have got it planned to the last detail.
I have got to get moving. terry will bust my chops if I am late. see you in september, auggie.
okay, my man. love to the wife and kids, et cetera, et cetera. drop me a postcard if you can remember the address.
are you closed?
you run out of schimmelpennincks?
do you think i could buy some before you leave?
no problem. it is not as though I am rushing off to the opera or anything.
looks like someone forgot a camera.
yeah, i did.
it is yours?
it is mine all right. I have owned that little sucker for a long time.
i did not know you took pictures.
i guess you could call it a hobby. it does not take me more than about five minutes a day to do it, but i do it every day. rain or shine, sleet or snow. sort of like the postman.  sometimes it feels like my hobby is my real job, and my job is just a way to support my hobby.
so you are not just some guy who pushes coins across a counter.
that is what people see, but that am not necessarily what i am.
how did you get started?
taking pictures?  it is a long story. I would need two or three drinks to get through that one.
a photographer ...
well, let's not exaggerate. i take pictures. you line up what you want in the viewfinder and click the shutter. no need to mess around with all that artisto crap.
I would like to see your pictures some day.
it can be arranged. seeing as how I have read your books. i do not see why i should not share my pictures with you.  it would be an honor.
they are all the same.
that is right. more than four thousand pictures of the same place. the corner of 3rd street and seventh avenue at eight of the clock in the morning. four thousand straight days in all kinds of weather.  that is why i can never take a vacation. I have got to be in my spot every morning. every morning in the same spot at the same time.
I have never seen anything like it.
it is my project. what you would call my life's work.
amazing.  I am not sure i get it, though. i mean, how did you ever come up with the idea to do this ... this project?
i do not know, it just came to me. it is my corner, after all. it is just one little part of the world, but things happen there, too, just like everywhere else. it is a record of my little spot.
it is kind of overwhelming.
you will never get it if you do not slow down, my friend.
what do you mean?
i mean, you are going too fast. you are hardly even looking at the pictures.
but they are all the same.
they are all the same, but each one is different from every other one. you have got your bright mornings and your dark mornings. you have got your summer light and your autumn light. you have got your weekdays and your weekends. you have got your people in overcoats and galoshes, and you have got your people in shorts and t-shirts. sometimes the same people, sometimes different ones. and sometimes the different ones become the same, and the same ones disappear. the earth revolves around the sun, and every day the light from the sun hits the earth at a different angle.
slow down, huh?
yeah, that is what I would recommend. you know how it is. tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, time creeps on its petty pace.
yeah. there she is. she is in quite a few from that year. she must have been on her way to work.
it is ellen. look at her. look at my sweet darling.
i did not expect to see you again.
same here. but i had a long talk with my accountant this afternoon. you know, to see how a move like this would affect my tax picture, and he said it would be okay.
that is it. just the two rooms.
this is the first house I have been in without a tv.
i used to have one, but it broke a couple of years ago and i never got around to replacing it.  I would just as soon not have one anyway. i hate those damn things.
but then you do not get to watch the ball games. you told me you were a mets fan.
i listen on the radio. i can see the games just fine that way.  the world is in your head, remember?
nice drawing. did you do that?
my father did. believe it or not, that little baby is me.
yeah, i can believe it.
it is strange, though, is not it? looking at yourself before you knew who you were.
is your father an artist?
no, he was a schoolteacher. but he liked to dabble.
he is dead?
twelve, thirteen years ago.  actually, he died with his sketch pad open on his lap. up in the berkshires one weekend, drawing a picture of mount greylock.
drawing's a good thing.
is that what you do? draw pictures?
yeah, sometimes.  i like to dabble, too.
time to wake up.  hey, kid, time to wake up.  rashid!  up and out. i have to work in here. the slumber party is over.
what time is it?
eight-thirty.
eight-thirty?
you will find juice and eggs and milk in the refrigerator. cereal in the cupboard. coffee on the stove. take whatever you want. but it is time for me to get started in here.
jesus, do you make a lot of noise. can not you see I am trying to work?
I am sorry. they just... they just slipped out of my hands.
a little less clumsiness around here would be nice, do not you think?
I am a teenager. all teenagers are clumsy. it is because we are still growing. we do not know where our bodies end and the world begins.
the world is going to end pretty soon if you do not learn fast.  look, why not make yourself useful? I am just about out of smokes.  go around the corner to the brooklyn cigar company and buy me two tins of schimmelpenninck medias.
twenty dollars is a lot of money. are you sure you can trust me with it? i mean, are not you afraid i might steal it?
if you want to steal it, that is your business. at least i will not have you around here making noise.  it might be worth it.
I am sorry. I am really sorry... i was trying to reach for one of the books up there ...  and then, i do not know, the sky fell on top of me.
it just will not do, will it? i go two and a half years without being able to write a word, and then, when i finally get started on something, when it looks as though i might actually be coming to life again, you show up and start breaking everything in my house. it just will not do, will it?
i did not ask to come here. you invited me, remember?  if you want me to leave, all you have to do is say so.
how long have you been here?
three nights.
and how long did i tell you you could stay?
two or three nights.
it sounds like our time is up, does not it?
I am sorry i messed up. you have been very kind to me ...  but all good things have to come to an end, right?
no hard feelings, okay? it is a small place, and i can not get my work done with you around.
you do not have to apologize.  the coast is probably clear now anyway.
are you going to be all right?
absolutely. the world is my oyster.  whatever that means.
do you need some money? some extra clothes?
not a penny, not a stitch. I am cool, man.
take good care of yourself, okay?
you too. and make sure the light is green before you cross the street.  oh, by the way, i liked your book. i think you are a hell of a good writer.
is your name paul benjamin?
what can i do for you?
i just want to know what your game is, mister, that is all.
how the hell did you get into the building?
what do you mean, how did i get in? i pushed the door and walked in. what do you think?
the damn lock's broken again.  and so you just barge in on strangers, is that what you do? is that your game?
I am looking for my nephew,  thomas.
thomas? who is thomas?
do not give me any of that. i know he is been here. you can not fool me, mister.
I am telling you. i do not know anyone named thomas.
thomas cole. thomas jefferson cole. my nephew.
you mean rashid?
rashid? rashid! is that what he told you his name was?
well, whatever his name is, he is not here anymore. he left two days ago, and i have not heard from him since.
and what was he doing here in the first place? that is what i want to know. what is a man like you messing around with a black boy like thomas for? are you some kind of pervert, or what?
look, lady, that is enough. if you do not calm down. I am going to throw you out. do you hear me? right now!
i just want to know where he is.
as far as i know, he went back to his parents.
his parents? is that what he told you? his parents?
that is what he said. he told me he lived with his mother and father on east seventy-fourth street.
i always knew that boy had an imagination, but now he is gone and made up a whole new life for himself.  do you mind if i sit down?  he is been living with me and his uncle henry since he was a baby. and we do not live in manhattan. we live in boerum hill. in the projects.
he does not go to the trinity school?
he goes to john jay high school in brooklyn.
and his parents?
his mother's dead, and he has not seen his father in twelve years.
i should not have let him go.
which brings me back to my original question. what was he doing here in the first place?
i was about to get run over by a car, and your nephew pulled me back. he saved my life.  i sensed he was in trouble, so i offered to put him up for a few days. maybe i should have pressed him a little more, i do not know. i feel pretty stupid about it now.
he is in trouble, all right. but i do not have any idea what it is.
do you want something to drink? a beer? a glass of water?
no thank you.
has anything happened lately? anything unusual or unexpected?
well, one thing i suppose, but i do not think it has anything to do with this.  a friend of mine called about two weeks ago and said she would spotted thomas's father working at some gas station outside of peekskill.
and you told your nephew about it?
i figured he had a right to know.
and?
and nothing. thomas looked at me straight in the eye and said, "i do not have a father. as far as I am concerned, that son-of-a-bitch is dead."
those are pretty hostile words.
his father walked out on his mother a couple of months after he was born. louisa was henry's younger sister, and she and the baby moved in with us. four or five years go by, and then one day cyrus shows up out of the blue, tail between his legs, wanting to patch things up with louisa. i thought henry was going to tear cyrus apart when he saw him walk through the door. they are both big men, those two, and if they ever started to tangle, you would see some teeth jumping on the floor. i guarantee it ... so cyrus persuaded louisa to go out with him to talk things over in quiet. and the poor girl never came back.
you mean she just ran off with him and left her little boy behind?
do not put words in my mouth. what I am saying is she drove off in cyrus's car and went to the five-spot lounge with him for a drink. what I am saying is that he imbibed too much in the way of alcohol and that when they finished their little talk three hours later and got back in the car, he was in no shape to drive. but he drove the car anyway, and before he could get her back to where she lived, the damn fool ran a red light and went straight into a truck. louisa got thrown through the windshield and was killed. cyrus lived, but he came out of it a cripple. his left arm was so mangled, the doctors had to cut it off. small punishment for what he did, if you ask me.
jesus.
jesus had nothing to do with it. if he would been involved. he would have seen to it that things worked out the opposite from what they did.
it can not have been easy on him. walking around with that on his conscience all these years.
no, i do not suppose it has. he was broken up like nobody's business in that hospital when he found out louisa was dead.
and he is never tried to get in touch with his son?
henry told cyrus he would kill him if he ever showed his face around our house again. when henry makes a threat like that, people tend to take him seriously.
you going to sit here all day?
i do not know. i have not decided yet.
why do not you pick some other spot? it gives a man the creeps to be stared at all morning.
it is a free country, is not it? as long as I am not trespassing on your property. i can stay here till kingdom come.
let me give you some useful information, son. there is two dollars and fifty-seven cents in that cash register over there  and considering all the time you have put in casing the joint so far, you will not make but about fifty cents an hour for all your pains. however you slice it, that is a losing proposition.
I am not going to rob you, mister.  do i look like a thief?
i do not know what you look like, boy. as far as i can tell, you sprouted up like a mushroom in this spot last night.  you live in this town -- or on your way from here to there?
just passing through.
just passing through. a lonesome traveler with a knapsack on his back plops himself across from my garage to admire the view. there is other places to roam, kid, that is all I am saying. you do not want to make a nuisance of yourself.
I am working on a sketch. that old garage of yours is so rundown, it is kind of interesting.
it is rundown, all right. but drawing a picture will not improve the way it looks.  let's see what you did, rembrandt.
it will cost you five bucks.
five bucks! you mean you are going to charge me five bucks just to look at it?
once you look at it, you are going to want to buy it from me. that is guaranteed. and that is the price: five bucks. so if you are not willing to spring for it, you might as well not bother to look. it will just tear you up inside and make you miserable.
son-of-a-bitch. you are some piece of work, are not you?
i just tell it like it is, mister.  if I am getting on your nerves, though, you might want to think about hiring me.
do you have eyes in your head, or are those brown things bulging out of your sockets just marbles? you have been sitting here all day, and how many cars have you seen drive up and ask for gas?
not a one.
not a one. not one customer all day. i bought this broken-down shit-hole of a place three weeks ago, and if business do not pick up soon, I am going straight down the skids. what do i want to be hiring someone for? i can not even pay my own wages.
it was just a thought.
yeah, well, do your thinking somewhere else, michelangelo. i got work to do.
I will tell you what. you want to work. I will give you a job. nothing permanent, mind you, but that upstairs room over there  -- the one above the office -- is a hell of a mess. it looks like they have been throwing junk in there for twenty years, and it is time it got cleaned up.
what is your offer?
five bucks an hour. that is the going rate, is not it?  it is a quarter past two now. my wife's picking me up at five-thirty, so that will give you about three hours. if you can not finish today, you can do the rest tomorrow.
is there a benefits package, or are you hiring me on a freelance basis?
benefits?
you know, health insurance, dental plan, paid vacation. it is not fun being exploited. workers have to stand up for their rights.
I am afraid we will be working on a strictly freelance basis.
five dollars an hour?  I will take it.
the name is cyrus cole.
paul. paul benjamin.
christ, ruby, it is been so long. i figured you were dead.
eighteen and a half years.
is that all? i thought it was about three hundred.
you are looking good, auggie.
no I am not. i look like shit. and so do you, ruby. you look just awful.  what is with the patch, anyway? what did you do with that old blue marble -- hock it for a bottle of gin?
i do not want to talk about it.  if you really want to know. i lost it. and I am not sorry i did. that eye was cursed, auggie, and it never gave me nothing but grief.
and you think it looks better to go around dressed up like captain hook?
you always were a son-of-a-bitch, were not you? a little weasel with a quick, dirty mouth.
at least I have stayed true to myself. which is more than i can say about some people.
I have got something to talk to you about, and the least you can do is listen. you owe me that much. i drove all the way from pittsburgh to see you, and I am not going until you have heard me out.
talk away, lady of my dreams. I am all ears.
this is private, auggie. just between you and i.
you heard her, pipsqueak. the lady and i have private business to discuss. go outside and stand in front of the door. if anyone tries to come in, tell 'em we are closed. you got that?
sure, auggie, i got it.  the store's closed.  and when do i tell them it is open?
when i tell you it is open. it is open when i tell you it is open!
okay, auggie, i got it. you do not have to yell.
all right, sugar, what is on your mind?
do not look at me like that. auggie. it gives me the creeps.
like what?
like what you are doing. I am not going to eat you up.  i need your help, and if you keep staring at me like that. i might start screaming.
help, huh? and i do not suppose this help has anything to do with money, does it?
do not rush me, okay? you are jumping to conclusions before I have even said anything.  and besides, it is not for me.  it is for our daughter.
our daughter? is that what you said? our daughter? i mean, you might have a daughter, but i sure as hell don't. and even if i did -- which i do not -- she would not be our daughter.
her name is felicity, and she just turned eighteen.  she ran away from pittsburgh last year, and now she is living in some shit-hole here in brooklyn with a guy named chico. strung out on crack, four months pregnant.  i can not bear to think about that baby. our grandchild, auggie. just think of it. our grandchild.
stop it, already. just stop all this crap right now.  was that your idea to call her felicity?
it means "happiness."
i know what it means. that still do not make it a good name.
i do not know who else to turn to, auggie.
you have suckered me before, darling, remember? why should i believe you now?
why would i lie to you, auggie? you think it was easy to come here and walk into this place? why would i do it if i did not have to?
that is what you told me when i shoplifted that necklace for you. you remember, baby, do not you? the judge gave me a choice: either go to the can or enlist. so, instead of going to college, i wind up in the navy for four years, i watch men lose their arms and legs, i nearly get my head blown off, and you, sweet ruby mcnutt, you run off and marry that asshole, bill.
you did not write to me for more than a year. what was i supposed to think?
yeah, well, i lost my pen. by the time i got a new one, i was clean out of paper.
it was over with bill before you ever came home. maybe you do not remember it now, but you were pretty hot to see me back then.
you were not so lukewarm yourself. at least at first.
it fizzled, baby. that is the way it goes. but we had our times, did not we? it was not all bad.
a couple of moments, I will grant you that. a second or two snatched from the jaws of eternity.
and that is how felicity came into the picture. during one of those two seconds.
you are conning me, sweetheart. i am not responsible for no baby.
then why do you think i married frank? i was already pregnant, and i did not have much time. say what you like, but at least he gave my kid a name.
good old frank. and how is fat mr. grease monkey these days?
who the hell knows?  he dropped out of sight fifteen years ago.
fifteen years ago?  it will not wash, pumpkin. no mother waits fifteen years to tell a man he is a father. i was not born yesterday, you know.
i thought i could handle it. i did not want to bug you. i thought i could handle it on my own, but i couldn't. she is in real bad, auggie.
nice try, old girl. I would like to help you out. you know, for old time's sake. but all my spare cash is tied up in a business venture, and i have not collected my profits yet. too bad. you caught me at the wrong time.
you are a cold-hearted bastard, are not you? how did you ever get so mean, auggie?
i know you think I am lying to you, but I am not. every word i told you is the god's honest truth.
i do not mean to be nosy, but i was wondering what happened to your arm.
an ugly piece of hardware, is not it?  I will tell you what happened to my arm.  I will tell you what happened.  twelve years ago, god looked down on me and said, "cyrus, you are a bad, stupid, selfish man. first of all, I am going to fill your body with spirits, and then I am going to put you behind the wheel of a car, and then I am going to make you crash that car and kill the woman who loves you. but you, cyrus, I am going to let you live, because living is a lot worse than death. and just so you do not forget what you did to that poor girl, I am going to rip off your arm and replace it with a hook. if i wanted to, i could rip off both your arms and both your legs, but I am going to be merciful and just take off your left arm. every time you look at your hook, i want you to remember what a bad, stupid, selfish man you are. let that be a lesson to you, cyrus, a warning to mend your ways."
and have you mended them?
i do not know. i try. every day i keep on trying, but it is no easy task for a man to change his nature.  I am off the booze, though. have not had a drop in six years. and now I have got me a wife. doreen. best damned woman I have ever known.  and a little boy, too. cyrus junior.  so things have definitely improved since i got fitted with this hook. if i can just turn this goddamn garage around, I will be in pretty good shape.
you named the kid after yourself, huh?
that boy's one in a million. a real tiger.
it is only temporary. on a freelance basis.
and this one, in case you have not guessed, is junior.
hi there, little brother.
say hi to paul.
hey, it is you.
i wanted to give you this as a token of my appreciation.
appreciation for what?
i do not know. for helping me out.
where did you get that thing?
i bought it. twenty-nine ninety-five on sale at goldbaum's tv and radio.  well, that just about takes care of it, i guess. you will be able to watch the ball games. you know, as a little break from your work.
where the hell do you think you are going?
business appointment. I am seeing my broker at three o'clock.
cut it out, will you? just cut it out and come back here.
i do not have much time.
close the door.  sit down in that chair.  now listen carefully. your aunt em came here a couple of days ago. she was sick with worry, out of her mind. we had an interesting talk about you, thomas. do you understand what I am saying? your aunt thinks you are in trouble and so do i. tell me about it, kid. i want to hear all about it right now.
you do not really want to know.
i don't, huh? and what makes you such an authority on what i want or do not want?
okay, okay.  it is all so stupid.  there is this guy, see. charles clemm. the creeper, that is what people call him. the kind of guy you do not want to cross paths with.
and?
i crossed paths with him. that is why I am trying to stay clear of my neighborhood.  to make sure i do not run into him again.
so that is the something you were not supposed to see, huh?
i just happened to be walking by... all of a sudden, the creeper and this other guy come running out of this check-cashing place with masks on their faces and guns in their hands... they just about ran smack into me. the creeper recognized me, and i knew he knew i recognized him... if the guy from the check-cashing place had not rushed out then screaming bloody murder, he would have shot me. I am telling you, the creeper would have shot me right there on the sidewalk. but the noise distracted him, and when he turned around to see what was happening, i took off... one more second, and i would have been dead.
why do not you go to the police?
you are joking, right? i mean, that is your way of trying to be funny, right?
if they put this creeper in jail, then you would be safe.
the man has friends. and they are not likely to forgive me if i testify against him.
what makes you think you will be any safer around here? it is only about a mile away from where you live.
it might not be far, but it is another galaxy. black is black and white is white, and never the twain shall meet.
it looks like they have met in this apartment.
that is because we do not belong anywhere. you do not fit into your world, and i do not fit into mine. we are the outcasts of the universe.
maybe. or maybe it is the other people who do not belong.
let's not get too idealistic.
fair enough. we would not want to get carried away, would we?  now call your aunt em and let her know you are alive.
get in, auggie. I have got something to show you.
you do not give up, do you?
just get in and shut up. I am not asking you to do anything. i just need you to come with me.
where to?
dammit, auggie, do not ask so many questions. just get in the car.
i told her she was going to meet her father.
you what?
it was the only way, auggie. otherwise, she was not going to let me see her.
i think you would better stop the car and let me out.
relax, okay? you do not have to do anything. just go in there and pretend. it will not kill you to do a little favor like that. besides, you might even learn something.
yeah, like what?
that i was not bullshitting you, sweetheart. at least you will know I have been telling the truth.
look, I am not saying you do not have a daughter. it is just that she is not my daughter.
wait till you see her, auggie.
and what is that supposed to mean?
she looks just like you.
cut it out. just cut it out, okay? it is starting to get on my nerves.
when i told her i was going to bring her father, she kind of melted. it is the first time felicity's talked nice to me since she left home. she is dying to meet you, auggie.
yeah? who is it?
it is me, honey. it is mom.
well?
well what?
are not you going to say anything?
what do you want me to say?
i do not know. hello, mom. hello, dad. something like that.
i do not got no daddy, you dig? i got born last week when some dog fucked you up the ass.
jesus christ. this is all i need.
you told me you wanted to meet him. well,here he is.
be nice, sweetie. we are just here to help you.
help? what the fuck do i need your help for? I have got a man, do not i? that is more than you can say for yourself, hawkeye.
you can do whatever you want with your own life. we are thinking of the baby, that is all. we want you to get yourself cleaned up for the baby. before it is too late.
baby? and what baby is that?
your baby. the baby you are carrying around inside you.
yeah, well, there am not no baby in there now. you dig? there is nothing in there now.
what are you talking about?
an abortion, stupid.  i had an abortion the day before yesterday. so you do not have to bug me about that shit anymore.  bye-bye, baby!
ah, coffee. smells good.
one sip of this stuff and your eyes will blast open.
thanks.
what time did you get to bed last night?
i do not know. two or three. it was pretty late.
you work too hard, you know that?
once a story gets hold of you, it is hard to let go.  besides, I am making up for lost time.
just so you do not overdo it. you do not want to die of sleep deprivation before you finish.
if you do not sleep, you do not dream. if you do not dream, you do not have nightmares.
that is logical. and if you do not sleep, you do not need a bed. saves you money, too.  so what is this story you are working on, anyway?
if i tell you, i might not be able to finish it.
come on, just a little hint.
okay, just a little hint. i can not tell you the story, but I will tell you what gave me the idea for it.
the inspiration.
yeah, right. the inspiration. it is a true story anyway, so i do not suppose it can hurt, can it?
no way.
all right. listen carefully.  about twenty-five years ago, a young man went skiing alone in the alps. there was an avalanche, the snow swallowed him up, and his body was never recovered.
the end.
no, not the end. the beginning.  his son was just a little boy at the time, but the years passed, and when he grew up, he became a skier, too. one day last winter, he went out by himself for a run down the mountain. he gets halfway to the bottom and then stops to eat his lunch next to a big rock. just as he is unwrapping his cheese sandwich, he looks down and sees a body frozen in the ice -- right there at his feet. he bends down to take a closer look, and suddenly he feels that he is looking into a mirror, that he is looking at himself. there he is -- dead -- and the body is perfectly intact, sealed away in a block of ice -- like someone preserved in suspended animation. he gets down on all fours, looks right into the dead man's face, and realizes that he is looking at his father.
celebrate? what for?
it is my birthday. I am seventeen years old  as of forty-seven minutes ago, and i think i should celebrate having made it this far.
hey, hey. happy birthday. why did not you tell me?
i just did.
i mean earlier. we could have planned something.
here we are.  rembrandt's drawings. edward hopper. van gogh's letters.
pick two or three. now that the coffers are open, you might as well take advantage of me.
will that be cash or charge?
better make it charge.
i thought i recognized you. you are paul benjamin the writer, are not you?
i confess.
i keep waiting for the next novel to come out. anything in the works?
it is coming along. at the rate he is going, he will have a story finished by the end of the summer.
wonderful. when your next book is published, maybe you could come into the store and do a signing. I am sure we could get a lot of people to show up.
uh, actually, i tend to shy away from that kind of thing.
excuse me for asking, but you are not married, are you?
what!
perhaps i should rephrase the question. what i mean to say is, are you married or seriously involved with a significant other?
no! at least i do not think i am!
good. then may i have the honor of extending an invitation to you?
an invitation?
yes, an invitation. i apologize for springing it on you at the last minute, but mr. benjamin and i are attending a celebration tonight, and we would be most pleased if you chose to accompany us.  is not that right, mr. benjamin?
absolutely. we would be honored.
and what is the occasion of this celebration?
it is my birthday.
and how many people will be attending this birthday party?
i would not actually call it a party. it is more along the lines of a dinner in celebration of my birthday.  the guest list is quite restricted. so far, there is mr. benjamin and myself. if you accept, that would make three of us.
ah-hah, i see. a cozy dinner. but are not threesomes a little awkward? how does the phrase go--
three's a crowd. yes, I am aware of that. but i have to keep an eye on mr. benjamin wherever he goes. to make sure he does not get himself into trouble.
and what are you, his chaperone?
actually, I am his father.
so your mother grew up in shanghai?
until she was twelve. she moved here in 'forty-nine.
and your father? is he from new york?
muncie, indiana. he and my mother met as students. but I am from brooklyn. my sisters and i were all born and bred right here.
just like me.
like me, too.
i once read somewhere that one quarter of all the people in the united states have at least one relative who has lived in brooklyn at one time or another.
no wonder it is such a screwed-up place.
and the bookstore? have you been working there long?
it is just a summer job. something to help pay the bills while i finish my dissertation.
your dissertation? what subject do you study?
american literature. what else?
what else. of course, what else? and what are you writing about for your thesis?
visions of utopia in nineteenth-century american fiction.
wow. you do not fool around, do you?
of course i fool around. but not so much when it comes to my work, it is true.  have you ever read pierre, or the ambiguities?
melville, huh?  it is been a while.
that is the subject of my last chapter.
not an easy book.
which explains why this has not been the easiest summer of my life.
hey, man, good to see you.
this is april lee, auggie. april, say hello to auggie wren.
so, what brings you to a dive like this?
it is his birthday so we decided to whoop it up a little.
how old, kid?
seventeen.
seventeen? i remember when i was seventeen. christ, i was one little whacked-out son-of-a-bitch when i was seventeen. is that what you are, son? one little whacked-out crazy fella?
definitely. I would say you have hit the nail on the head.
good. keep it up, and maybe one day you will grow up and become a great man like me.
hey, auggie, I have just been thinking. you would not need some help around the store, would you? some summer help while vinnie's gone?
help? hmm. it is possible. what did you have in mind?
I am thinking about the kid. I am sure he would do a good job for you.
hey, kid. you interested in a job? i just got word from your employment agency that you are looking for a position in retail sales.
a job?  i definitely would not turn down a job.
come around to the cigar store tomorrow morning at ten of the clock and we will talk about it, okay? we will see what we can work out.
ten of the clock tomorrow morning. I will be there.
it is 1942, right? and he is caught in leningrad during the siege. I am talking about one of the worst moments in human history. five hundred thousand people died in that one place, and there is bakhtin, holed up in an apartment, expecting to be killed any day. he has plenty of tobacco, but no paper to roll it in. so he takes the pages of a manuscript he is been working on for ten years and tears them up to roll his cigarettes.
his only copy?
his only copy.  i mean, if you think you are going to die, what is more important, a good book or a good smoke? and so he huffed and he puffed, and little by little he smoked his book.
nice try. you had me going for a second, but no ... no writer would ever do a thing like that.  would he?
you do not believe me, huh?  look, I will show you. it is all in this book.
i do not know.
is it yours?
yeah, it might be.
here, catch.
so you are saying it was not like that at all.
not exactly. i mean, there was more to it than i told you.
christ. you did not just see what happened. they dropped the package on the ground and you picked it up.
yeah, i picked it up.
and started to run.
and started to run.
good thinking.
that is just it. i did not think. i just did it.
you have one hell of a knack for getting into trouble, do not you?  so how much does it come to?
six thousand dollars. five thousand eight hundred and fourteen dollars, to be exact.
so you robbed the robbers, and now the robbers are after you.
that is it. in a nutshell.
yeah, well, you have to be nuts to do what you did. if you want my opinion, you should give this money back to the creeper. just give it back and tell him you are sorry.
no way. there is no way I am giving that money back. it is my money now.
a lot of good it will do you if the creeper finds you.
that money is my whole future.
keep up with that attitude, and you will not have a future.  seventeen is a hell of an age to die. is that what you want?
I will be back in about an hour. watch the register while I am gone, okay?
sure thing. see you later.
a little. not much.
this way, gentlemen. let's retire to my office, shall we?
so you lost the job. is that what you are telling me? he just up and fired you?
it was more complicated than that. there was a reason.
well?
it was not my fault.
if you do not tell me what happened, how do you expect me to know that? i need facts, not opinions.
the water was dripping, see... i turned it off, but it was still dripping, and then auggie had to go out, and so i left the back room ... and later on ... well, later on ... when auggie came back ... the whole place was flooded. his cuban cigars got all messed up ... you know, soaked through ... just when he was about to sell them ... to these rich guys in suits....
cuban cigars. you mean he had some hanky-panky going with those guys?
i suppose so. he never told me about it.
no wonder he was angry.
he was out five thousand bucks, he said.... he kept saying it over and over.... five thousand bucks down the drain.... he would not stop.... five thousand bucks, five thousand bucks.... he was like out of his mind with those five thousand bucks....
here's what you are going to do. you are going to open up your backpack, take out your bag of money, count out five thousand dollars, and hand it over to auggie.
what are you talking about?  you can not be serious.
I am serious, all right. you have got to square it with auggie. since you will not give the money back to the creeper, you can use it to make things right with auggie. that is probably better anyway. better to keep your friends than to worry about your enemies.
I am not going to do it.
you will do it, all right. you fuck up, you have got to undo the damage. that is how it works, buster. if you do not do it, I am going to throw you out of here. do you understand me? if you do not pay auggie what you owe him. I am finished with you.
i pay auggie, and I have got nothing. eight hundred bucks and a ticket to shit city.
do not worry about it. you have got friends now, remember? just behave yourself, and everything will work out.
the kid's sorry, auggie.
yeah, well, I am sorry too.  it took me three years to save up those five thousand bucks, and now I am broke. i can not hardly pay for this beer. not to speak of having my credibility destroyed. do you understand what I am saying? my credibility. so yeah, I am sorry, too. about as sorry as I have ever been in my whole fucking life.
he is got something to tell you, auggie.
if he is got something to tell me, why do not he tell it to me himself?
it is for you.
for me? and what am i supposed to do with a paper bag?
open it.
what is this, some kind of joke?
no, it is five thousand dollars.
shit. i do not want your money, you little twerp.  it is probably stolen anyway.
what do you care where it comes from? it is yours.
and why the hell would you give me money?
so i can get my job back.
your job? you have got five thousand bucks. what do you want a piece-of-shit job like that for?
to look at the dirty magazines. i can see all the naked women i want, and it does not cost me a cent.
you are a dumb, whacked-out little fuck, do you know that?
do not be an ass, auggie. he is trying to make it up to you, can not you see that?
he is crazy.
no, he is not. you are.
you are right. i just was not sure you knew.
it is written all over you like a neon sign. now say something nice to rashid to make him feel better.
fuck you, kid.
fuck you, too, you white son-of-a-bitch.
good. I am glad that is settled!
... if it happens, it happens. if it doesn't, it doesn't. do you understand what I am saying? you never know what is going to happen next, and the moment you think you know, that is the moment you do not know a goddamn thing. that is what we call a paradox. are you following me?
sure, auggie. i follow. when you do not know nothing, it is like paradise. i know what that is. it is after you are dead and you go up to heaven and sit with the angels.
jesus, man, you are one fucking mess.
it could have been worse. if the cops had not come, i might not be standing here now.
cops? you mean they nabbed those cruds?
no. the ... uh ... the bobbsey twins lit out when they heard the sirens. but at least they stopped playing that marimba duet on my skull.  assaultus interruptus.
fuckus my assus. they did some number on you.
for once in my life i managed to keep my mouth shut. there is something to be said for that, i suppose.
does it hurt?
of course it hurts. what does it look like?
i thought maybe he was pretending.
you have not heard from rashid, have you?
not a peep.
i spoke to his aunt a couple of days ago, but she has not heard from him either. it is beginning to get a little scary.
that could be a good sign, though. it could mean that he got away.
or didn't.  there is no way of knowing, is there?
so you are just going to give up and go home?
i do not have much choice, do i? it is pretty clear she does not want me around.
still, you can not just write her off.
yeah? and what else am i supposed to do? there is no baby anymore, and if she wants to throw away her life, that is her business.
she is just a kid. there is time for more babies later. after she grows up.
dream on, auggie. she will be lucky to make it to her nineteenth birthday.
not if you got her into one of those rehab programs.
I would never be able to talk her into it. and even if i could, those things cost money. and that is just what i do not have. I am flat out dead broke.
no you are not.
are you calling me a liar? I am telling you I am broke. i do not even have insurance on my goddamned car.
remember that business venture i was telling you about? well, my tugboat came in. I am flush.
bully for you.
no, bully for you.
what is this?
why do not you open it and find out?
jesus god, auggie. there is money in here.
five thousand bucks.
and you are giving it to me?
it is all yours, baby.
for keeps?
for keeps.
i can not believe it. oh god, i can not believe it.  you are an angel, auggie. an angel from heaven.
fuck this angel shit. just take the dough, ruby. but no bawling, okay? i can not stand people who blubber.
I am sorry, baby. i can not help it.
there is just one thing i want to know.
anything, auggie. just name it.
jesus, what happened to you?
it looks worse than it is. I am okay.
what happened?
I will tell you all about it...  ... but not here.
it is been a while. i thought maybe you would be in touch.
yeah, well, I have sort of been out of commission.  how is melville?
almost done. a week or ten days, and I will be there.
i finished my story. i thought you might want to take a look at it.
I would love to.
good. i hope you like it. it was a long time in coming.
i get off for lunch in ten minutes. can i treat you to a hamburger?
uh ... actually, it might be better if you read the story first. call me when you are finished, okay?
okay. I will read it tonight and call you tomorrow.  it does not seem to be too long.
forty-one pages.
so what did he say when he called?
nothing much. he said his socks and underpants were dirty, and would we mind driving up with his things.  fucking kids, huh? they take you for granted every time.
nice machine, auggie. where did you find it?
it is tommy's. the sucker owed me a favor.
it is not a long drive. an hour, an hour and a half. we will be back in time for dinner.
we would better be. i have not spent a night out of brooklyn in fourteen years, and I am not about to break my record now. besides, I have got to be on my corner at eight sharp tomorrow morning.
hi, kid.
wow. they sure did a job on you.
research. i worked the scene right into my story.  that makes the medical bills one hundred percent tax deductible.
we came here to deliver some clean laundry.
it is all right. i really do know them.
that is funny. his name is the same as yours.
well, you and junior have the same name, too, do not you?
yeah, but he is my son. nothing strange about that. he is my own flesh and blood. but here you got the same name as this man here, and you are not even the same color.
that is how we met. we are members of the international same name club. believe it or not, there are 846 paul benjamins in america. but only two in the new york metropolitan area. that is how paul and i got to be such good friends. we are the only ones who show up at the meetings.
thomas.
paul. rashid. thomas. which one is it?
thomas.
come on, come on, you yellow belly. the whole thing. first name and last name.
what difference does it make?
if it does not make any difference, why not just say it?
i was going to tell him ... but in my own time. in my own time... .
thomas cole. my name is thomas jefferson cole.
are you making fun of me? i will not be mocked. do you hear me? i will not let no punk kid stand there and mock me!
like it or not, cyrus, that is my name. cole. just like yours.
now ask him who his mother was.
i do not like this. i do not like it one bit.
louisa vail. remember her, cyrus?
you shut your mouth! you shut your mouth now!
of course there is going to be a war. you think they would send five hundred thousand troops over there just to lie in the sun? i mean, there is plenty of beach, but not a hell of a lot of water. half a million soldiers. it am not no seaside holiday, you can bet on that.
i do not know, tommy. you think anyone gives a rat's ass about kuwait? i read something about the head sheik over there. he marries a different virgin every friday and then divorces her on monday. you think we want to have our kids dying for a guy like that?
hey, man, how is it going?
hi, auggie.
two, right?
uh, better make it one.
you usually get two.
yeah, i know, but I am trying to cut down.  somebody is worried about my health.
ah-hah.
fine.  or it was until a couple of days ago. a guy from the new york times called and asked me to write a christmas story. they want to publish it on christmas day.
that is a feather in your cap, man. the paper of record.
yeah, great. the problem is, i have four days to come up with something, and i do not have a single idea.  you know anything about christmas stories?
christmas stories? sure, i know a ton of 'em.
anything good?
good? of course. are you kidding?  I will tell you what. buy me lunch, my friend, and I will tell you the best christmas story you ever heard. how is that? and i guarantee every word of it is true.
it does not have to be true. it just has to be good.
take over the register while I am gone, okay, jimmy?
i have to pee.  if the waiter comes, order me a corned beef on rye and a ginger ale, okay?
you got it.
what will it be, auggie?
uh...  my friend over here would like a corned beef on rye and a ginger ale.
and what about for you?
huh?
what about for you?
for me?  I will have the same thing.
do me a favor, will you?
what is that, sol?
next time, when you want two corned beef sandwiches, say, "two corned beef sandwiches." when you want two ginger ales, say, "two ginger ales."
what is the difference?
it is simpler, that is what. it makes things go faster.
uh, sure, sol. anything you say. instead of saying, "one corned beef sandwich," and then, "another corned beef sandwich," I will say, "two corned beef sandwiches."
thanks. i knew you would understand.
so. are we ready?
ready. any time you are.
I am all ears.
okay.  you remember how you once asked me how i started taking pictures? well, this is the story of how i got my first camera. as a matter of fact, it is the only camera I have ever had. are you following me so far?
every word.
okay.  so this is the story of how it happened.  okay.  it was the summer of 'seventy-six, back when i first started working for vinnie. the summer of the bicentennial.  a kid came in one morning and started stealing things from the store. he is standing by the rack of paperbacks near the front window stuffing skin magazines under his shirt. it was crowded around the counter just then, so i did not see him at first....
did you ever go back to see her?
once, about three or four months later. i felt so bad about stealing the camera, i had not even used it yet. i finally made up my mind to return it, but granny ethel was not there anymore. someone else had moved into the apartment, and he could not tell me where she was.
she probably died.
yeah, probably.
which means that she spent her last christmas with you.
i guess so. i never thought of it that way.
it was a good deed, auggie. it was a nice thing you did for her.
i lied to her, and then i stole from her. i do not see how you can call that a good deed.
you made her happy. and the camera was stolen anyway. it is not as if the person you took it from really owned it.
anything for art, eh, paul?
i would not say that. but at least you have put the camera to good use.
and now you have got your christmas story, do not you?
yes, i suppose i do.
what do you mean?
i mean, it is a good story.
shit. if you can not share your secrets with your friends, what kind of friend are you?
exactly. life just would not be worth living, would it?
