buzzy... buzz...?
yeah... sid?
you got clicks, anything?
nah, nuthin' on my end --
-- okay... hang on, i gotta move --
alright, now buzzy -- this is, this is it, here, okay, so listen to me careful and wait till I am finished 'cuz we got no room for slop.
I am here.
okay, he is going to clip israel, i just got to outta there --
-- he is doing it then, huh --
-- yeah, now lemme finish, i was eavesdroppin', so give me sec, lay this thing out, since the information might be a little loose --
-- okay, g'head --
so what i heard downstairs there is that they got a guy, some swede, real badass, supposedly a "specialist" and they are bringing him over. now he am not coming cheap -- so, I am thinkin' we jump, do this in the next day or so, get to israel before the swede can, we got chits, y'see? we are in a power position. grab him, ransom him back, pick up that nut, we are that much closer to having our own thing.
no question, no, you are right. we got to do what is good for us now.
fuckin' a, first survive, yes?
y'gotta, y'gotta. but d'ya think they will kick ransom for that little prick, assuming we get to'm.
yeah, y'ain't heard the punchline, yet and before i get to it, one more thing i heard, little curious, should probably bring it up... primo wants israel's heart. the actual thing, the organ.
... jesus... what for?
-- who can say. he is off his onion, y'know, he is old school sicilian, this is how they hate.
wow.
hey, we nab israel, they pay t'get'm back, I will cut the fuckin' thing out m'self, no extra charge. my thing is, we crew up, let's not fuck around, someone is cousin, some zip off the boat from naples, let's get pros, people who know how to behave.
yeah, there is a pair'a broads I am thinking might be good for this.
chances are, they are going to get into some shit too, hafta put people down.
that is not a problem. are we goin' outta pocket ourselves?
yeah, i can front this.
well just so i got a quote in my head. what is the rate for the swede?
that is the punchline, y'ready?
shoot.
a million flat.
no shit.
none whatsoever.
sparazza is rumored to have performed in excess of one-hundred and thirty contract murders, including one of the bureau's most celebrated agents. freeman heller. you heard of "the turnpike murders" that was sparazza.
i thought heller was a double op?
so he is personally issued the contract on israel?
sparazza was the one who introduced israel to the life, gave him his first big break, brought him through the ranks.
a marked man gets wise and wants to come in.
his testimony has the potential of blowing the lid off what is left of the la cosa nostra is this country. that alone warrants total immunity from prosecution and and a vanishing act with witness protection.
so the wiretaps we conducted on serna and padiche, the mention of israel's heart?
-- your intel corroborates what we already know. sparazza's health is in rapid decline and before his date with destiny, it seems he wants one last thing... the heart of his sworn enemy. a recently opened, cash rich escrow account has been traced back to sparazza. this and the mention of this mysterious swede makes the million dollar contract on israel very real.
bulllllshit...
naw baby, they heard about that triad hit, the work ya'll put in and they recognize the skills. and this am not no tryout, tap-dance "show us your shit" thing neither -- if ya'll want this then i'mma go git it for 'ya.
and so i get this straight, we gotta go in, bust on this punk and remove the heart? is that for real?
no, no, no, y'gotta go in and get him, pull'm out of wherever he at, forget all that other shit, that is just f'flavor. I am still getting lil' bits'a this-n-that from this cat padiche, the man contacting me... right now, what we got --  -- is a number and a name... buddy israel.
what else did padiche say?
he said that the shit could get hot, could get heavy... i said good.  'cuz i got two of the hottest, heaviest bitches alive.
on an extradition flight back to el salvador, he murdered a security detachment and vanished.
you think it is possible he could be involved in the israel hit?
possibly. acosta is pure mercenary. and a million dollar hit fee will draw some huge flies. but forget about sparazza's money for a moment and remember, there is no shortage of those who want israel killed and no shortage of cash to do just that...
what happened?
the teamsters had a reform measure going to ballot that did not sit too well with the local syndicate. night of the polling, big black-tie to-do downtown and the tremor brothers crash the party. literally.
his law firm, same one that hired me. israel walked out after he made bail and nobody's seen him since.
jack, if the rumors hold and israel is really the great white whale of snitches, then the mob is looking to put all kinds of bullets into his ass and pour some serious psychotics into the mix to do just that. so what real incentive is there to track him on something as small-time as a skip trace, when it is putting you and yours in the path of severe pain and suffering and an almost certain prelude to doom.
so i guess you are not going.
shit, if you are on a crazy jag, why stop there, why not take fort knox with a fucking slingshot or go into hell after hitler... i like your chances a lot more.
i know his location, we have got the drop of a maybe half a day before that location gets grape-vined and the rest of the world gets hipped.
that is already happened hoss. it is naive to think otherwise.
we got to lay something out, strategy- wise. somethin' tight. y'go in there ad-libbing, it is y'ass.
what are we talkin' on the split...
forty-five apiece for you two, ten percent finders fee for me.
what is the time frame?
right mafuck'n now girl. fast as we can get you there. we wait any longer, someone goin' dead this fool.
it is the last place they would look.
israel's legal representation, the firm of culpepper, brody and reed, which is currently the subject of a joint sec and treasury department probe, were left holding the bag after he skipped bail. over three- quarters of a million dollars on a bond that is set to expire in less than a day. rupert reed, one of the firm's partners, has learned of israel's whereabouts and dispatched a local bondsman by the name of jack dupree to pick him up and return him to las vegas... that can not happen.  we have a gulf stream standing by at reagan international to transport you two to lake tahoe.  it is very simple gentlemen. valacchi, fratiano, gravano -- no former witness against the mob has been as crucial or has brought more to bear on the potential dissolution of the la cosa nostra, than buddy israel.
d'you talk to'm?
i got his machine.
what did you say?
i said i got his machine.
no, what did you say on the machine?
i left him a message.
i know you left him a message. what did you say!
jesus hugo! how is it that you can turn a simple conversation into a fucking hedge maze!? this is zero degree of difficulty man!
okay.
then why are you still looking at me like I am asking for the square root of something! what did you say!?
i said that we were returning his call and you were real concerned, because he sounded real concerned.
look at that, we did not have to fill up the whole blackboard after all. now, do you know anything about that?
about what?
look at the collar on that coat...
i dunno... cinnamon roll?
cinnamon roll? no, good guess though. no, hugo that looks like jizz...  and I am no forensic expert mind you, but that looks like some fuckhead shot their load on a twelve-thousand dollar calf's skin jacket. the twist? it is my twelve thousand dollar, calf's skin jacket.  so y'got semen, human ejaculate --  -- that is been allowed to soak in for what, six, seven hours now? work it is way into the fabric-fuck'n fibers -- and while you may never see it in a tide commercial, i think it still safely qualifies as a "tough, deep down stain."
i could have it sent out...
...to what? incinerate? 'cuz I am almost dead certain there is not a fucking laundry detergent or dry cleaning process known to man that can ever return that jacket to its former glory! some shit, suffice it to say, just do not wash out.  now, the money question... to whom does that stain belong?
do you want me to say i did it?
i was kinda hoping, yeah.
do you want me to say I am sorry?
only if you really, truly mean it.
...i'm sorry...
are you a fucking colossal idiot?
i am. yeah.
without peer?
i -- uh, yeah, i guess, yeah.
anything on the swede?
only the mention made in that phone call. there is no swedish hitman of any renown, much less one with a million dollar day rate.
maybe he is that good. never been caught, no criminal record.
maybe.
i tell you, engineering this kind of play against sparazza, going to the lengths these guys are going to... they are playing some long odds.
and a very bad gamble.
well... this is as good a place for it as any i guess.
fifty grand gouge. south shore hayseeds, this is why i never play tahoe, or redneck reno...
we are hot, and they are losing a whole floor's worth of business saying it is "under construction."
alright, bag it, I am not shelling out that kinda bread for this shithole, this is a junior suite in vegas. call mecklen right now, he should have his cell on, i need an update.  get the russian up here, have him clean this place, floor to ceiling and get us packed.  ...and send out for some new skeeze, the sun's up, these ones are starting to stink...
are you on a land line?
yeah, why.
I have got concerns.
...about what?
about cocaine... and the amount you are doing.
I am not doing cocaine.
buddy, I am not an ethics professor, I am a physician, be honest, or be dead within a day... s'your choice.
-- forget about the tissue damage you are doing to the heart itself. sustained cocaine abuse will segue you from a very painful ventricular fibrillation into full cardiac arrest.  buddy, nobody knows about your condition, or your drug use. why you lied to me, knowing that I would find out anyway, I will never know, but it imperative now that i see you.
that is not possible. i told you.
there are certain meds, certain intravenous measures that can counteract some of the damage you have done, but I would have to administer them myself.
will not work, we are just going to have to chance it man. I am sorry.
no. sorry comes later, when you are in a partial coma with ambulatory paralysis. sorry comes when we have to decide which of your limbs have to be amputated because severely constricted blood flow has brought about a gangrenous infection, sorry --
-- fine, fuck, i got it... lake tahoe, nevada. I will have hugo book your flight, you can be here in a couple hours. he will meet you at the airport.
spotter on the lake confirmed israel. penthouse level. there was apparently a fisticuffs with some prostitutes. he was not involved. he is also had his people phone a local madame for another group of girls.
no rest for the wicked.  why were we never shown these files? we are sitting on sparazza for what? six months now and we are just seeing this?  did you know that he is has had thirty- six major medical procedures performed on him since 1953?  elective plastic surgery, every single one --
unreal, this guys jacket too. wall- to-wall major felony offenses, murder, extortion, arson, grand larceny --  -- a paternity suit... i just feel like we are playing catch-up with all this and we should not be.
welcome to the new bureau. nobody shares information anymore, it is become synonymous with job security.
based on what we had, i thought sparazza was a mid-level player at best and it turns out he is this mob relic, running the show out west.
but the bureau knew sparazza killed heller. why not go after him, guns blazing' for that one?
heller was buried in agency lore, anytime an operative failed or was perceived to have failed, hoover blackballed their memory. look at ness.
yeah, but the untouchables took down capone. heller got shot and killed. the bad guys beat him. worse, sparazza walked.
so he has no idea what is about to happen?
no. and i want to be in that room a half second after mecklen calls to say the deal's done. we have got a sheriff's task force on stand-by.
what about the hotel staff obstructing us. israel's obviously paid off the management.
tampering with a witness extraction of this magnitude makes everyone indictable at the federal level.  trust me, we will not any problems with the hotel staff. you show 'em your id with the letters "f.b.i." in all caps and it is instant compliance. I have seen in happen a hundred times.
yeah, we have been through that.
then quit acting like somebody shit in your cereal bowl. reed just gave us fifty grand.
-- jack, what am i doing? I am standing here, are not i?  should not that be enough? that i made the trip?
your attitude sucks.
i been accused of worse.  what do we got...?
two security levels, the one we are going in under the guise of, hotel security, has restricted access. they are mostly there to monitor the lobby, handle disturbances on the different floors and toss out drunks.  there is a thirty-five member employee rotation going from graveyard to day shift. if we split up, we can blend in and enter unnoticed. once we are inside the hotel, we will regroup.
then what --
...i forgive you darwin.
shoot, i appreciate that man.
if i needed your i.d. and your car and me and my brothers were wanted by the law, i woulda killed you to get 'em too.
you woulda?
oh hell yeah. we's just in the wrong place at the wrong time. so do not feel so bad dude.
damn... alright then.
i do not mind now anyway. you know, up here in heaven, it is beautiful. way better than fuckin' hawaii or any place like that.
really?
I am glad I am here. i love it. I am going to get laid by some fine ass angels and then go hang out with jesus and them.
man, that is great.
i got it made in the shade amigo. hey, I will see you up here some day, do not worry.
you think so?
answer your fucking pages! I have been calling for fifteen minutes, we need you up here to clean now!
that is right! right now!
they are going to give on this in the next ten seconds or the deal's off!
i dunno what to say to you sweetheart, it is what it is.
bullshit it is. i said, about as loud as i could say it, "no jail time for my guys."
baby, I have been co-habitating with these people for the past thirty odd hours and in so doing, have stared into the face of hell. these are the premier prick cocksuckers of all time and i feel beaten by them, i feel bloodied --
-- and you are going to feel altogether fucked, by me, if you do not handle this. I am the one, does the face plant, this falls apart, not you.
and i vibe that kiddo, i do indeed, but it is one'a those fait accompli things, you have to --
i do not have to do shit! which includes cooperating any further with these motherfuckers until i get what i want!  alright, fuck it, if we got to hand 'em somebody from our end and they are being hard-ons about it -- make it hugo, him i do not mind. he needs that regimented thing that prison provides --
-- buddy, it is bigger than that, they want 'em all, ivy, beanie --
-- this is not a swap meet morrey, they are getting sparazza and the west coast syndicate, giftwrapped, now if that is not good enough --
he is giving them up?
all of 'em. his entire entourage. i think we should move.
did the justice lawyers sign off?
that is happening in about ten minutes. israel's at optimum risk of flight right now, so we can not wait.
what about the sheriff's task force?
have them mobilized. I will phone security and have the elevators locked down and stairwells secured. we need to keep israel sequestered in that penthouse.
it is got to be tough keeping an eye on everything.
and everybody, all the time. yeah, it is a chore.
so, bill, if i understand this right, you currently have your penthouse floor under construction?
that is correct.
but with these down, does not that pose a major security concern if, as you say, you have to keep an eye on everything at all times?
well, we were worried about dust and debris from the work being done ruining the cameras, so--
-- so you shut them off?
yes, but no -- we have personnel stationed at both ends of that hall, twenty-four hours a day.
what kind of personnel?
right now? a six man security force, plus a member of our butler staff. so seven men total.
you have a butler working that floor?
uh -- well, yes, uh just in terms of the men up there now, my team, he is serving lunch and dinner and just doing general upkeep so --
so there are no guests staying on that floor?
c'mon bill... you have got some sultan up there, one of your whales, big- spender, likes a lot of space, you cook up this "construction" thing...?
no, no, no. we have been looking to renovate that area of our hotel for some time now. the security team is only present to preserve floor integrity, due to the roof access.
is your security team armed?
of course. yes.
and who has access to that floor?
deputy, have you made any id's?
get a coroner's estimate too.  -- miss, I have been transferred and i was disconnected. no one is answering and i need someone from security to pick up that line. it is urgent.
maroon uniforms?
yeah. have you been able to get through to the nomad's security?
no.  I am going over there. you take the car from there, get out to the lake.
why?
'cuz we do not need to draw any more shit down on our heads. we hit whoever's between us and israel. i do not want to dead the whole floor and i do not want to be killing women no matter how they make a living.
wait, I am getting some fucked up feedback off that earpiece --
nuthin', we cool. there was somethin' about a fed being in the building.
a fed? like fbi?
it is just a little casino inspection, do not trip, he is alone.  alright, let's set this spinnin'...
when them tricks hit the lobby, holla at me and I am going to meet them on the way up, blend in. once i get inside, i'mma put m'nina to israel's head and back out hot. anybody's fucks with that program, y'break 'em off. they get gully --
i'mma grip and rip girl.  i got some handloads here ready to cut heads.
jus' remember, this is more rescuin' shit than rampagin' shit... what are you shootin'?
...girl, y'know i had to bring big mamma through.
you got the fifty up? bitch y'tryin' t'take down a jumbo jet? blown the moon out the sky? t'fuck you wanna get that grimy?
the try t'wild out on my boo and it is on and crackin'! I am layin' niggas out.
damn, this kevlar ridin' up on me, i wish they made this more sheer.
...so you heard from keith? he still fuckin' with that 'lil light-skinned girl?
i am not tryin' to break a sweat for that sorry ass nigga.
he a dog babydoll. he a great dane. i tried to tell y'after ya'll first date. he hit that ass one time, his interest in a bitch start t'landslide.
you know i burned all his shit. all that vinyl. chalamar, funkadelic, i burned his turntables too. they was like three-thousand brand new.
fuck that nigga. let him go woof on some other scrub. we got one another, s'all the love we are ever goin' need.
girl, lemme ask you somethin' and i want you t'tell me straight up, since i got my suspicions and y'know i am not one t'talk circles... you gay?
what!?
am not nuthin' wrong wit' it.
damn! why you trippin' like that?
-- i do not know, i feel like you always pushin' up on me, gettin' close and i love you baby, in every way you can love a bitch, 'cept that one.
i am not even goin' dignify that. you my road dog. we threw up sets.  plus you stank.
fuck you.
buzzy... buzz...?
yeah... sid?
right, you got clicks, anything?
nah, nuthin' on my end --
so how we lookin'?
good. this thing's on track, looks like it is going to get done.
fuckin' thrilled t'hear it. so the scout, the sitdown, y'musta felt it from 'em then huh?
cold blood sid, dead eyes, y'know?
lil' cagey, y'know, do not like t'share trade secrets, that type'a thing.
okay -- yeah, i can, i respect that.
how are we on time...?
well, I am hearin' the swede's been dispatched, he is flying so --
well, uh -- damn, alright, so he is headed in, does that -- where does that leave us?
-- no, no, not when y'can see the shore. i hear ya.
okay, well, y'know, then we just got to get israel.
I am working on it.
bag this fucker buzzy.
it is gettin' done sid.
I am here, where is the car?
i sent hugo, he should be there!
what did you say?
not you. some assholes on the elevator... are these bitches on a permanent smoke break or what? why the fuck they call'm "working girls."
that is probably him now...
...see, this is one'a them rare moments when y'ass get a chance to be completely honest... and if I am asking you what you said to mecklen, assume the shit is rhetorical... so assume i already know.
are you anywhere near the penthouse?
no, but that definitely sounds like shots and i do not where it is comin' from --
-- it is your ifb, somebody else has got an earpiece, you are picking up their signal --
-- i thought we had secure frequency. aww girl, tell me this mafucka am not goin' off right now.
what is wrong?
security's locking down the elevators.
y'ain't never had to wash another man's blood off, dig it out y'fingernails... y'had us for that. y'ain't ever made a real beef on y'own, shit as light in the ass as you are, I will bet you am not ever made anything more than a fuck'n fist your whole life.  so if you think i'mma let your lil' punk-ass, with the dirt I have done for you, in the eleventh hour, sell me off like some fucking field nigger, hand me up to the feds like y'last chip, then you done gone straight out-your-motherfucking mind!
that is mecklen. the deal's closing. i can pick that phone up and i can work this out.  you will walk with me.
fuck you!
get in here goddammit!
I am not givin' it up jus' yet...
c'mon, i say we bounce now, kick it for a lil' bit, play some craps.  ...maybe spend the night?
...shhhhhhit... girl, there is these two dudes, just sittin' here in this elevator, all shot up...
what?
they musta been beefin' big time with one another, cuz this shit, got way past words, whatever it was.
...what are they doin' right now...?
yeah, ye-- i -- uh, there were, earlier, there was that guy carrut--
-- agent carruthers. do you know where is he now?
he uh -- he asked about -- I am -- he wanted to know whic-- what floor security was on, then i saw him get on the elevator with the other agent.
wait a minute, what other agent?  what other agent?
did he give you his name?
yeah, uh -- it was spanish-somethin' garcia, or diego, uh --
-- run both those names through the d.c. database. call san francisco, see if they have got anybody in the field doing collateral inquiries for --
-- he was wearing one of our jackets.
who?
the other agent. he said he was here to do an inspection and later, when he got on the elevator with the other guy, carruthers, i saw him wearing one of our security jackets...
this man wearing the jacket identified himself as an federal agent?
uh, yeah.
you are sure?
yeah, he had the badge and everything. it said "fbi" on it.
and when you saw him later, he was wearing one of your security jackets --
yeah.
and that did not seem odd to you?
girl one of these fools has an fbi badge on him! is this the one that was doing the inspection?
hold up, hold up, I am getting shots over the scanners, tons of traffic -- jus' chill for a sec, lemme listen...
buddy, they revoked the deal, they pulled it...
they what? what? no. no. why?
the deputy director, this prick locke, he smashed the whole thing, we are done, they will not tell me why...
i do not know!
jus' keep doin' y'damage girl, keep these mafuckas off my as--
how bad?
mortal.
no.
yeah.
georgia on my mind wit'yo fine ass. you know you saved this black man.
you know i did baby...  and a deep, dark one at that. now if you am not a dog, which you do not look like --
-- never in a million girl --
-- good, then all you got to be is grateful.
no doubt. that is my moms there, taught me them skills.
you love her?
my mamma? c'mon shorty, y'gotta ask?  you hurtin' pretty bad?
got hit twice.
it is going around am not it? mafuckas catching bullets like the common cold up in this bitch.  i think i accidentally shot and killed my boy today.
well, if it is any comfort, i's goin' in to there to act a fool baby.  straight rockin' heat and slayin' niggas --
for real?
mmm-hmm... and your boy very well mighta been one of 'em.
true?
like a mafucka.
that takes some of the sting out.
i probably woulda busted on you too... and what a shame that woulda been.
i feel like i know you girl. i feel like I have known you forever.  you going to lemme see your scars?
you do the right thing. sit with me while i heal, let it develop slow.
what were you doin' here anyway?
'spose to kill this fool named buddy israel.
here. sit.   please.
this is him? the hitman hired to kill israel? he is a doctor?
difficult to explain everything now...  and much larger issues loom.  I am sorry about carruthers... damndest thing to have to die for.
what the hell -- what is this!? people died. agent carruthers is dead!
we have to transport mr. israel to las vegas, time is of the essence. the gulfstream is standing by on the jetway at tahoe international. I am sorry, I am restricted from disclosing anymore information. return to washington. you will be debriefed in the coming days.
you investigating those murders out at the lake?
ww... uh...
three men were ambushed and shot, two died and had their bodies tossed into the lake, the other has severe hypothermia, possible dementia and will probably be a multiple amputee by week's end... if he even lives that long.
yeah, shit -- hell, you are right. I am sorry.
you shot me and murdered my friends.
i did. we -- yeah, i know.
and threw us into the lake.
pretty much, yep.
and this is your car, is not it?
mmm-hmm.
but there were more of you?
yeah, m'brothers... they did not make it.
two of 'em?
thass' right.  i got other brother's though, so it am not so bad.
you were here huntin' a man named israel, were not you? your name is tremor.
where is israel?
what are you doing here?
my debrief --
-- will be handled back in --
-- no, we need to handle it now.
i can not discuss --
-- you can and you will.
you are finished.
and you just figured that out?  the swede is not a hitman, is he? he is a surgeon. sparazza did not want israel's heart for a trophy, he wanted it for a transplant... why?
...a paternity suit, filed 1967...
-- brought against sparazza by israel's mother laverne who was nineteen at the time. they had a brief affair which israel was the by- product of.
...does he know?
...he does now...
sparazza was in failing health and looking for a donor. the son who had betrayed and burned him so thoroughly seemed a obvious choice.
so all of our intel was bogus to begin with.
yes. the actual contract went to lazlo soot, the man that plunged to his death from the penthouse yesterday. he was to neutralize israel's entourage and prep for the removal of his heart. ingstrom was to handle the surgery itself on-site with the assistance of dr. gregory gill, israel's personal physician, who was also on the sparazza payroll.
...when did you know all this?
information was arriving all day yesterday. when we finally figured out who sparazza actually was, we --
...are you insane?
...almost.  what do you mean "who sparazza actually was..."
you realize that sparraza has had thirty-six major medical procedures performed on him since 1953? elective plastic surgery, every single one --
it was not elective. it was undertaken to save his life. and it was not cosmetic, it was reconstructive... look at the date of the first procedure.
...yeah, fifty-three.
the same year that sparazza murdered agent freeman heller...
...holy shit... that is heller...  is not it?
primo sparazza was heller's alias. he went deep cover in 1940 and stayed under for over ten years, amassing materials against the mafia and other criminal syndicates. he may have ripped the organization wide open, pre-appalachia, but his superiors were convinced that he had gone rogue, swapped allegiances...so they gave the order to terminate his cover.
the agents of that era are all dead and gone, history had defaulted to fable... until now. you can imagine the shock this sent through the corridors of power in d.c. heller's op predates the second world war. that is over sixty years of intel. do you know how valuable that could be? the man's a treasure trove.
...so you made another deal?
i would not go that far.
but you did, and have... and now people are dead.  did sparazza become more valuable than israel... and did you make another deal?
you are trying to save sparazza?
no... we are trying to save heller.
...so you knew all this and yet y--
-- we needed cohesion to move forward. not conjecture.
...while carruthers and a dozen others lie dying, you debate semantics. the bureau's betrayed us...  the way they betrayed him...
i do not see it like that at all.
I will overlook what you have done here today in light of what is taken place. you have been fully debriefed. now i want you to return to d.c. immediately and make no further inquiry into this matter. i mean it. it is closed.
no... it is not.  what it lacks... is an end.
