all right, charlie - this the joint?
yes, sir.
and who runs it?
i already told you.
refresh my memory.
spats colombo.
that is very refreshing. now what is the password?
i come to grandma's funeral.  here's your admission card.
thanks, charlie.
if you want a ringside table, tell 'em you are one of the pall bearers.
okay, charlie.
look, chief - i better blow now, because if spats colombo sees me, it is goodbye charlie.
goodbye, charlie.
good evening, sir.
i come to the old lady's funeral.
i do not believe I have seen you at any of our services before.
that is because I have been on the wagon.
please!
where are they holding the wake? I am supposed to be one of the pallbearers.
show the gentleman to the chapel - pew number three.
what will it be, sir?
booze.
sorry, sir, we only serve coffee.
coffee?
scotch coffee, canadian coffee, sour-mash coffee...
make is scotch.  a demitasse. with a little soda on the side.
have not you got another pew - not so close to the band?  how about that one?
sorry, sir.  that is reserved for members of the immediate family.
better bring the check now - in case the joint gets raided.
who is going to raid a funeral?
some people got no respect for the dead.
say, joe - tonight's the night, is not it?
I will say.
i mean, we get paid tonight, do not we?
yeah.  why?
because i lost a filling in my back tooth. i gotta go to the dentist tomorrow.
dentist?  we been out of work for four months - and you want to blow your first week's pay on your teeth?
it is just a little inlay - it does not even have to be gold -
how can you be so selfish?  we owe back rent - we are in four eighty-nine bucks to moe's delicatessen - we are being sued by three chinese lawyers because our check bounced at the laundry - we have borrowed money from every girl in the line -
you are right, joe.
of course i am.
first thing tomorrow we are going to pay everybody a little something on account.
no we are not.
we are not?
first thing tomorrow we are going out to the dog track and put the whole bundle on greased lightning.
you are going to bet my money on a dog?
he is a shoo-in.  i got the word from max the waiter - his brother-in-law is the electrician who wires the rabbit -
what are you giving me with the rabbit?
look at those odds - ten to one. if he wins, we can pay everybody.
but suppose he loses?
what are you worried about?  this job is going to last a long time.
but suppose it doesn't?
jerry-boy - why do you have to paint everything so black? suppose you get hit by a truck? suppose the stock market crashes?
suppose mary pickford divorces douglas fairbanks?
hey, joe!
suppose lake michigan overflows?
do not look now - but the whole town is under water!
okay, spats - the services are over. lets go.
go where?
a little country club we run for retired bootleggers.  I am going to put your name up for membership.
i never join nothin'.
you will like it there.  I will have the prison tailor fit you with a pair of special spats - striped!
big joke.  who is the rap this time?
embalming people with coffee - eighty-six proof.
me?  I am just a customer here.
come on, spats - we know you own this joint.  mozarella is just fronting for you.
mozarella?  never heard of him.
we got different information.
from who?  toothpick charlie, maybe?
toothpick charlie?  never heard of him.
you are wasting the taxpayers' money.
if you want to, you can call your lawyer.
these are my lawyers - all harvard men.
well, that solves one problem.  we do not have to worry about who to pay first.
quiet - I am thinking.
of course, the landlady is going to lock us out - moe said no more knackwurst on credit - and we can not borrow any more from the girls, because they are on their way to jail -
shut up, will you?  i wonder how much sam the bookie will give up for our overcoats?
sam the bookie?  nothing doing!  you are not putting my overcoat on that dog!
i told you - it is a sure thing.
but we will freeze - it is below zero - we will catch pneumonia.
look, stupid, he is ten to one.  tomorrow, we will have twenty overcoats!
greased lightning!  why do i listen to you? i ought to have my head examined!
i thought you were not talking to me.
look at the bull fiddle - it is dressed warmer than i am.
anything today?
oh, it is you!  you got a lot of nerve -
thank you.
now look, nellie - if it is about last saturday night - i can explain everything.
what a heel!  i spend four dollars to get my hair marcelled, i buy me a new negligee, i bake him a great big pizza pie...  - and where were you?
yeah - where were you?
with you.
with me?
do not you remember?  he has this bad tooth - it got impacted - the whole jaw swole up -
it did?  boy, did it ever!
so i had to rush him to the hospital and give him a transfusion...  right?
right.  we have the same blood type...
- type o.
oh?
nellie baby, I will make it up to you.
you are making it up pretty good so far.
the minute we get a job, I am going to take you out to the swellest restaurant -
what is the job?
it is three weeks in florida -
those idiot broads!  here we are all packed to go to miami, and what happens?  the saxophone runs off with a bible salesman, and the bass fiddle gets herself pregnant.  i ought to fire you, bienstock.
me?  I am the manager of the band - not the night watchman.
hey, sig - can we talk to you?
nellie, get me long distance.  what is it?
it is about the florida job.
the florida job?
nellie told us about it.
we are not too late, are we?
what are you - a couple of comedians? get out of here!  long distance?  get me the william morris agency in new york.
you need a bass and a sax, do not you?
the instruments are right, but you are not.  i want to speak to mr. morris.
what is wrong with us?
you are the wrong shape.  goodbye.
the wrong shape?  you looking for hunchbacks or something?
it is not the backs that worry me.
what kind of band is this, anyway?
you got to be under twenty-five -
we could pass for that.
- you got to be blonde -
we could dye our hair.
- and you got to be girls.
we could -
no, we couldn't!
william morris!
you mean it is a girls' band?
yeah, that is what he means. good old nellie!  i ought to wring her neck!
yes, I am holding on.
wait a minute, joe.  lets talk this over.  why could not we do it?  last year, when we played in that gypsy tearoom, we wore gold earrings.  and you remember when you booked us with that hawaiian band?  grass skirts!
what is with him - he drinks?
no.  and he am not been eating so good, either. he is got an empty stomach and it is gone to his head.
but, joe - three weeks in florida!  we could borrow some clothes from the girls in the chorus -
you have flipped your wig!
now you are talking!  we pick up a couple of second-hand wigs - a little padding here and there - call ourselves josephine and geraldine -
josephine and geraldine!  come on!
look, if you boys want to pick up a little money tonight -  at the university of illinois they are having - you should excuse the expression - a st. valentine's dance.
we will take it!
you got it.  it is six dollars a man.  be on the campus in urbana at eight of the clock -
all the way to urbana - for a one night stand?
it is twelve bucks.  we can get one of the overcoats out of hock.
hello, mr. morris? this is poliakoff, in chicago. say, you would not have a couple of girl musicians available? a sax player and a base?
look, if william morris does not come through -
it is a hundred miles, joe - it is snowing - how are we going to get there?
I will think of something.  do not crowd me.
please, jerry - that is no way to talk.  nellie baby - what are you doing tonight?
why?
because i got some plans -
I am not doing anything.  i just thought I would go home and have some cold pizza -
and you will be in all evening?
yes, joe.
good!  then you will not be needing your car.
my car?  why, you -
we could have had three weeks in florida - all expenses paid.  lying around in the sun - palm trees - frying fish...
knock it off, will you?
hello, charlie.  long time no see.
what is it, spats?  what do you want here?
just dropped in to pay my respects.
you do not owe me no nothing.
oh, i would not say that.  you were nice enough to recommend my mortuary to some of your friends...
i do not know what you are talking about.
so now i got all those coffins on my hands - and i hate to see them go to waste.
honest, spats.  i had nothing to do with it.
too bad, charlie.  you would have had three eights.  goodbye, charlie!
no, spats - no, no, no -  no!
we did not see anything -  - did we?
no - nothing.  besides, it is none of our business if you guys want to knock each other off -
do not i know you two from somewhere?
we are just a couple of musicians - we come to pick up a car - nellie weinmeyer's car - there is a dance tonight -  come on, jerry.
wait a minute.  where do you think you are going?
to urbana.  it is a hundred miles.
you am not going nowhere.
i do not like no witnesses.
we will not breathe a word.
you will not breathe nothing' - not even air.
i think they got me.
they got the bull-fiddle.
you do not see any blood?
not yet.  but if those guys catch us, there'll be blood all over.  type o.
where are we running, joe?
as far away as possible.
that is not far enough.  you do not know those guys!  but they know us.  every hood in chicago will be looking for us -
you going to call the police?
the police?  we would never live to testify. not against spats colombo.  wabash 1098.
we got to get out of town.  maybe we ought to grow beards.
we are going out of town.  but we are going to shave.
shave?  at a time like this?  those guys got machine guns - they are going to blast our heads off - and you want to shave?
shave our legs, stupid.
how can they walk on these things? how do they keep their balance?
must be the way their weight is distributed. come on.
and it is so drafty.  they must be catching colds all the time.
quit stalling.  we will miss the train.
i feel so naked.  like everybody's looking at me.
with those legs?  are you crazy?
it is no use.  we will never get away with it, joe.
the name is josephine.  and it was your idea in the first place.
who are we kidding?  look at that - look how she moves - it is like jello on springs - they must have some sort of a built-in motor. i tell you it is a whole different sex.
what are you afraid of?  nobody's asking you to have a baby.  this is just to get out of town. the minute we hit florida, we will blow this set-up.
this time I am not going to let you talk me into something that...
hi, mary lou - rosella - okay, dolores, get a move on - how is your back, olga?
clarinet - drums - trumpet - trombone -
well, here we are.
you two from the poliakoff agency?
yes, we are the new girls.
brand new.
this is our manager, mr. bienstock. I am sweet sue.
my name is josephine.
and I am daphne.
where did you girls play before?
oh - here and there - and around.
you are in berths 7 and 7a.
thank you ever so.
you are welcome.
it is entirely mutual.
upsy-daisy.
fresh!
daphne?
i never did like the name geraldine.
hello, everybody.  I am the bass fiddle. just call me daphne.
I am josephine.  sax.
no --- how does it go?
now cut that out, girls-none of that rough talk.  they went to a conservatory.
how about that talent?  this is like falling into a tub of butter.
watch it, daphne!
when i was a kid, i used to have a dream - i was locked up in this pastry shop overnight - with all kinds of goodies around - jelly rolls and mocha eclairs and sponge cake and boston cream pie and cherry tarts -
listen, stupe - no butter and no pastry. we are on a diet!
not there - that is the emergency brake.
now you have done it!
done what?
tore off one of my chests.
you would better go fix it.
you better come help me.
this way, daphne.
now you tore the other one.
oh!
terribly sorry.
that is all right.  i was afraid it was sweet sue. you will not tell anybody, will you?
tell what?
if they catch me once more, they will boot me out of the band.  you the replacement for the bass and the sax?
that is us.  I am daphne - and this is josephine.
I am sugar cane.
i changed it.  it used to be sugar kowalczyk.
polish?
yes.  i come from a very musical family. my mother is a piano teacher and my father was a conductor.
where did he conduct?
on the baltimore and ohio.
oh.
i play the ukulele.  and i sing too.
she sings, too.
i do not really have much of a voice - but then it is not much of a band, either.  I am only with 'em because I am running away.
running away?  from what?
do not get me started on that.  want a drink?  it is bourbon.
we will take a rain check.
i do not want you to think that I am a drinker. i can stop any time i want to - only i do not want to.  especially when I am blue.
we understand.
all the girls drink - but I am the one that gets caught.  that is the story of my life. i always get the fuzzy end of the lollipop.
are my seams straight?
I will say.
see you around, girls.
bye, sugar.  we been playing with the wrong bands.
down, daphne!
how about the shape of that liquor cabinet?
forget it.  one false move, and they will toss us off the train - there'll be the police, and the papers, and the mob in chicago...
boy, would i like to borrow a cup of that sugar.
look - no butter, no pastry, and no sugar!
you tore it again!
hey, sheboygan - you two - what was your last job - playing square dances?
no - funerals.
would you mind rejoining the living? goose it up a little.
how did those holes get there?
oh - those.  i do not know.  mice?
we got it second-hand.
all right - lets take it from the top. and put a little heat under it, will you?
yes, sue?  what is it?
i thought i made it clear i do not want any drinking in this outfit.
all right, girls.  who does this belong to?  come on, now.  speak up.  sugar, i warned you!
pardon me, mr. bienstock - can i have my flask back?

did not you girls say you went to a conservatory?
yes.  for a whole year.
i thought you said three years.
we got time off for good behavior.
there are two things i will not put up with during working hours.  one is liquor - and the other one is men.
men?
oh, you do not have to worry about that.
we would be caught dead with men.  those rough, hairy beasts with eight hands -  they all want just one thing from a girl.
i beg your pardon.
all right, girls - from the top again.
steady, boy.  just keep telling yourself you are a girl.
I am a girl.  I am a girl.  I am a girl -
good night, sugar.
good night, honey.
honey - she called me honey.
what are you doing?
i just want to make sure that honey stays in the hive.  there'll be no buzzing around tonight.
but suppose i got to go - like for a drink of water?
fight it.
but suppose i lose?  suppose it is an emergency?
then pull the emergency brake!
you know, bienstock, there is something funny about those two new girls.
funny?  in what way?
i do not know - but i can feel it right here.  that is one good thing about ulcers - it is like a burglar alarm going off inside you.
good night, daphne.
good night, josephine.
oh - sugar!
i wanted to thank you for covering for me. you are a real pal.
it is nothing.  i just think us girls should stick together.
if it had not been for you, they would have kicked me off the train.  I would be out there in the middle of nowhere, sitting on my ukulele.
it must be freezing outside.  when i think of you - and your poor ukulele -
if there is anything i can do for you -
oh, i can think of a million things -
and that is one of them.
sssh.  sweet sue.
i do not want her to know we are in cahoots.
we will not tell anybody - not even josephine.
I would better stay here till she goes back to sleep.
stay as long as you would like.
I am not crowding you, am i?
no.  it is nice and cozy.
when i was a little girl, on cold nights like this, i used to crawl into bed with my sister.  we would cuddle up under the covers, and pretend we were lost in a dark cave, and were trying to find out way out.
interesting.
anything wrong?
no, no.
why you poor thing - you are trembling all over.
that is ridiculous.
and your head is hot.
that is ridiculous.
and you have got cold feet.
is not that ridiculous?
let me warm them a little.  there - is not that better?
I am a girl, I am a girl, I am a girl -
what did you say?
I am a very sick girl.
maybe I would better go before i catch something.
I am not that sick.
i have a very low resistance.
look, sugar, if you feel you are coming down with something, the best thing is a shot of whiskey.
you got some?
i know where to get some.  do not move.
you all right?
I am fine.
how is the bottle?
half-full.
i tell you - this is the only way to travel.
you better put on the lights. i can not see what I am doing.
no - no lights.  we do not want anyone to know we are having a party.
i may spill something.
so spill it.  spills, thrills, laughs, games - this may even turn out to be a surprise party.
what is the surprise?
uh-uh.  not yet.
when?
we better have a drink first.
here.  this'll put hair on your chest.
no fair guessing.
this a private clambake, or can anybody join?
it is private.  go away.
who needs vermouth?
we have some bourbon - lets make manhattans.
okay.
manhattans?  this time of night?
and bring the cocktail shaker.
oh, sugar.  you are going to spoil my surprise.
what is going on here?  daphne - daphne -
it is not my fault.  i did not invite them.
break it up, girls!  daphne! come on, help me!
not you, sugar.
I am just going to get some ice.
put it here.
sugar, you are going to get yourself into a lot of trouble.
better keep a lookout.
if bienstock catches you again - what is the matter with you, anyway?
I am not very bright, i guess.
i would not say that.  careless, maybe.
no, just dumb.  if i had any brains, i would not be on this crummy train with this crummy girls' band.
then why did you take this job?
i used to sing with male bands. but i can not afford it any more.
afford it?
have you ever been with a male band?
me?
that is what I am running away from. i worked with six different ones in the last two years.  oh, brother!
rough?
I will say.
you can not trust those guys.
i can not trust myself.  the moment I would start with a new band - bingo!
bingo?
you see, i have this thing about saxophone players.
really?
especially tenor sax.  i do not know what it is, but they just curdle me.  all they have to do is play eight bars of "come to me my melancholy baby" - and my spine turns to custard, and i get goose-pimply all over - and i come to them.
that so?
every time!
you know - i play tenor sax.
but you are a girl, thank goodness.
yeah.
that is why i joined this band. safety first.  anything to get away from those bums.
yeah.
you do not know what they are like. you fall for them and you love 'em - you think it is going to be the biggest thing since the graf zeppelin - and the next thing you know they are borrowing money from you and spending it on other dames and betting on the horses -
you do not say?
then one morning you wake up and the saxophone is gone and the guy is gone, and all that is left behind is a pair of old socks and a tube of toothpaste, all squeezed out.
men!
so you pull yourself together and you go on to the next job, and the next saxophone player, and it is the same thing all over again.  see what i mean? - not very bright.
brains are not everything.
i can tell you one thing - it is not going to happen to me again.  ever. I am tired of getting the fuzzy end of the lollipop.
you know I am going to be twenty-five in june?
you are?
that is a quarter of a century. makes a girl think.
about what?
about the future.  you know - like a husband?  that is why I am glad we are going to florida.
what is in florida?
millionaires.  flocks of them.  they all go south for the winter.  like birds.
going to catch yourself a rich bird?
oh, i do not care how rich he is - as long as he has a yacht and his own private railroad car and his own toothpaste.
you are entitled.
maybe you will meet one too, josephine.
yeah.  with money like rockefeller, and shoulders like johnny weismuller -
i want mine to wear glasses.
glasses?
men who wear glasses are so much more gentle and sweet and helpless. have not you ever noticed?
well, now that you have mentioned it -
they get those weak eyes from reading - you know, all those long columns of tiny figures in the wall street journal.
happy days.
i hope this time you wind up with the sweet end of the lollipop.
- so the one-legged jockey said -
what did he say?
the one-legged jockey said - 'don't worry about me, baby.  i ride side-saddle.'
cut it out, girls.  stop it. joe - josephine - help!
hey, she is ticklish!
what is happened?
search me.  i mean - I will see.
i was it.
what is the big idea?
I am sorry. i was having a nightmare.  something i ate.  I am not at all well.  see?  hot water bottle.
okay, sugar - all clear.  you better go back to bed.
i might as well stay in there. i will not be able to sleep anyway.
why not?
bienstock.  he snores to beat the band. we cut cards to see who sleeps over him, and i always lose.  would not you know?
want to switch berths with me?
would you mind terribly?
not at all.
thanks, honey.
good night, sugar.
male and female - the moth and the flame - i ought to slug you!
you would not hit a girl, would you?
I will carry the instruments.
thank you, daphne.
well, there they are - more millionaires than you can shake a stick at.
I will bet there is not one of them under seventy-five.
seventy-five.  that is three-quarters of a century.  makes a girl think.
just a moment, miss -  may i?
help yourself.
i am osgood fielding the third.
i am cinderella the second.
if there is one thing i admire, it is a girl with a shapely ankle.
me too.  bye now.
let me carry one of the instruments.
thank you.  are not you a sweetheart?
it certainly is delightful to have some young blood around here.
personally, I am type o.
you know, I have always been fascinated by show business.
you do not say.
yes, indeed.  it is cost my family quite a bit of money.
you invest in shows?
no - it is showgirls.  I have been married seven or eight times.
you are not sure?
mama is keeping score.  frankly, she is getting rather annoyed with me
I am not surprised.
so this year, when george white's scandals opened, she packed me off to florida.  right now she thinks I am out there on my yacht - deep-sea fishing.
well, pull in your reel, mr. fielding. you are barking up the wrong fish.
if i promise not to be a naughty boy - how about dinner tonight?
sorry.  I will be on the bandstand.
oh, of course.  which of these instruments do you play?
bull fiddle.
fascinating.  do you use a bow or do you just pluck it?
most of the time i slap it.
you must be quite a girl.
wanna bet?
my last wife was an acrobatic dancer - you know, sort of a contortionist - she could smoke a cigarette while holding it between her toes - zowie! - but mama broke it up.
why?
she does not approve of girls who smoke.
goodbye, mr. fielding.
goodbye?
this is where i get off.
oh, you do not get off that easy.
please.  it will not happen again.
no, thank you.  I will walk.
i wish they would put us in the same room.
so do i.  but do not worry - we will be seeing a lot of each other.
414 - that is the same room number i had in cincinnati - my last time around with a male band. what a heel he was.
saxophone player?
what else?  and was i ever crazy about him. two in the morning, he sent me down for knackwurst and potato salad - they were out of potato salad, so i brought coleslaw - so he threw it right in my face.
forget it, sugar, will you?  forget about saxophone players.  you are going to meet a millionaire - a young one.
what makes you so sure?
just my feminine intuition.
are these your bags?
yes.  and that one, too.
okay, doll.
i suppose you want a tip?
forget it, doll.  after all, you work here - i work here - and believe you me, it is nice to have you with the organization.
bye.
listen, doll - what time do you get off tonight?
why?
because I am working the night shift - and i got a bottle of gin stashed away - and as soon as there is a lull -
are not you a little too young for that, sonny?
wanna see my driver's license?
get lost, will you?
that is the way i like 'em - big and sassy.  and get rid of your roommate.
what happened?
i got pinched in the elevator.
well, now you know how the other half lives.
and I am not even pretty.
they do not care - just as long as you wear skirts.  it is like waving a red flat in front of a bull.
I am tired of being a flag.  i want to be a bull again.  lets get out of here, joe. let's blow.
blow where?
you promised - the minute we hit florida, we were going to beat it.
how can we?  we are broke.
we can get a job with another band. a male band.
listen, stupid - right now spats colombo and his chums are looking for us in every male band in the country.
but this is so humiliating.
so you got pinched in the elevator. so what?  would you rather be picking lead out of your navel?
all right, all right!  but how long can we keep this up?
what is the beef?  we are sitting pretty. we get room and board - we get paid every week - there is the palm trees and the flying fish -
what are you giving me with the flying fish? i know why you want to stick around - you are after sugar.
me?  after sugar?
i watched you two on the bus - lovey-dovey - whispering and giggling and borrowing each other's lipstick -
what are you talking about?  sugar and me, we are just like sisters.
yeah?  well, I am your fairy godmother - and I am keeping an eye on you.
you girls have seen a brown bag with a white stripe and my initials?
a what?
my suitcase - with all my resort clothes.
here you are, sugar.
a bunch of us girls are going for a swim. want to come along?
you betcha.
wait a minute, daphne.  you have not got a bathing suit.
she does not need one.  i do not have one either.
see?  she does not have one either -  you don't?
we will rent some at the bathhouse. how about you, josephine?
yeah - let her soak.  come on.
do not get burned, daphne.
oh, i have some suntan lotion.
she will rub it on me - and I will rub it on her - and we will rub it on each other - bye.
what do you think you are doing?
just a little trick i picked up in the elevator.
you know, daphne - i had no idea you were such a big girl.
you should have seen me before i went on a diet.
i mean, your shoulders - and your arms -
that is from carrying around the bull fiddle.
but there is one thing i envy you for.
what is that?
you are so flat-chested.  clothes hang so much better on you than they do on me.
oh, I am terribly sorry.
my fault.
you are not hurt, are you?
i do not think so.
i wish you would make sure.
why?
because usually, when people find out who i am, they get themselves a wheel chair and a shyster lawyer, and sue me for a quarter of a million dollars.
well, do not worry.  i will not sue you - no matter who you are.
thank you.
who are you?
now, really -
have not i seen you somewhere before?
not very likely.
are you staying at the hotel?
not at all.
your face is familiar.
possible you saw it in a newspaper - or magazine - vanity fair -
that must be it.
would you mind moving just a little? you are blocking my view.
your view of what?
they run up a red-and-white flag on the yacht when it is time for cocktails.
you have a yacht?
which one is yours - the big one?
certainly not.  with all that unrest in the world, i do not think anybody should have a yacht that sleeps more than twelve.
i quite agree.  tell me, who runs up that flat - your wife?
no, my flag steward.
and who mixes the cocktails - your wife?
no, my cocktail steward.  look, if you are interested in whether I am married or not -
I am not interested at all.
well, I am not.
that is very interesting.
how is the stock market?
up, up, up.
I will bet just while we were talking, you made like a hundred thousand dollars.
could be.  do you play the market?
no - the ukulele.  and i sing.
for your own amusement?
well - a group of us are appearing at the hotel. sweet sue and her society syncopators.
you are society girls?
oh, yes.  quite.  you know - vassar, bryn mawr - we are only doing this for a lark.
syncopators - does that mean you play that fast music - jazz?
yeah.  real hot.
oh.  well, i guess some like it hot.  but personally, i prefer classical music.
so do i.  as a matter of fact, i spent three years at the sheboygan conservatory of music.
good school!  and your family does not object to your career?
they do indeed.  daddy threatened to cut me off without a cent, but i do not care. it was such a bore - coming-out parties, cotillions -
- inauguration balls -
- opening of the opera -
- riding to hounds -
- and always the same four hundred.
you know, it is amazing we never ran into each other before.  I am sure i would have remembered anybody as attractive as you.
you are very kind.  I will bet you are also very gentle - and helpless -
i beg your pardon?
you see, i have this theory about men with glasses.
what theory?
maybe I will tell you when i know you a little better.  what are you doing tonight?
tonight?
i thought you might like to come to the hotel and hear us play.
I would like to - but it may be rather difficult.
why?
i only come ashore twice a day - when the tide goes out.
oh?
it is on the account of the shells. that is my hobby.
you collect shells?
yes.  so did my father and my grandfather - we have all had this passion for shells - that is why we named the oil company after it.
shell oil?
please - no names.  just call me junior.
come on, sugar - time to change for dinner.
run along, daphne - I will catch up with you.
okay.
what is it, young lady?  what are you staring at?
you - you -
this happens to me all the time in public.
i recognized him too - his picture was in vanity fair.
vanity fair?
would you mind moving along, please?
yes, you are in the way.  he is waiting for a signal from his yacht.
his yacht?
it sleeps twelve.  this is my friend daphne. she is a vassar girl.
I am a what?
or was it bryn mawr?
i heard a very sad story about a girl who went to bryn mawr.  she squealed on her roommate, and they found her strangled with her own brassiere.
yes - you have to be very careful about picking a roommate.
well, i guess I would better go -
it is been delightful meeting you both.
and you will come to hear us tonight?
if it is at all possible -
oh, please do come.  do not disappoint us. it will be such fun.  and bring your yacht.
come on, daphne.
well, I will be - !   how about that guy?
now look, daphne - hands off - i saw him first.
sugar, dear - let me give you some advice. if i were a girl - and i am - I would watch my step.
if I would been watching my step, i never would have met him.  wait till i tell josephine.
yeah - josephine.
will she be surprised. i just can not wait to see her face -
neither can i.  come on - lets go up to her room and tell her - right now.
we do not have to run.
oh yes, we do!
josephine -
i guess she is not in here.
that is funny.  josie -  i can not imagine where she can be.
well, I will come back later.
no, no, sugar - wait.  i have a feeling she is going to show up any minute.
believe it or not - josephine predicted the whole thing.
yeah.  this is one for ripley.
do you suppose she went out shopping?
that is it.  something tells me she is going to walk through that door in a whole new outfit.
josephine.
oh, i did not hear you come in.
the most wonderful thing happened -
what?
guess!
they repealed prohibition?
oh, come on - you can do better than that.
i met one of them.
one of whom?
shell oil, junior.  he is got millions - he is got glasses - and he is got a yacht.
you do not say!
he is not only got a yacht, he is got a bicycle.
daphne -  go on - tell me all about him.
well, he is young and handsome and a bachelor - and he is a real gentleman - not one of these grabbers.
maybe you would better go after him - if you do not want to lose him.
oh, I am not going to let this one get away. he is so cute - collects shells.
shells?  whatever for?
you know - the old shell game.
daphne, you are bothering us.
anyway, you are going to meet him tonight.
i am?
because he said he is coming to hear us play - maybe.
what do you mean, maybe?  i saw the way he looked at you.  he will be there for sure.
i hope so.
what do you think, josephine?  what does it say in your crystal ball?
wise guy, huh?  trying to louse me up -
and what are you trying to do to poor sugar?  putting on that millionaire act - and that phony accent -  nobody talks like that!  I have seen you pull some low tricks on dames - but this is the trickiest and the lowest and the meanest -
this is her roommate.  daphne can not talk right now.  is it anything urgent?
well, it is to me.  will you give her a message?  I would like her to have a little supper with me on my yacht after the show tonight.
got it.  supper - yacht - after the show - I will tell her.  your yacht?
the new caledonia.  that is the name of it.  the old caledonia went down during a wild party off cape hatteras.  but tell her not to worry - this is going to be a quiet little midnight snack - just the two of us.
just the two of you?  what about the crew?
oh, that is all taken care of.  I am giving them shore leave.  we will have a little cold pheasant - and champagne - and i checked with the coast guard - there'll be a full moon tonight - oh, and tell her i got a new batch of rudy vallee records -
that is good thinking.  daphne's a push-over for him.
I am a push-over for whom?  what is it? who is on the phone?
yes, mr. fielding - you will pick her up after the show in your motorboat - goodbye - what is that you said?  oh - zowie! I will give her the message.
what message?  what motorboat?
you got it made, kid.  fielding wants you to have a little cold pheasant with him on his yacht -
oh, he does!
just the three of you on that great big boat - you and him and rudy vallee.
fat chance!  you call him right back and tell him I am not going.
of course, you are not.  I am going.
you are going to be on the boat with that dirty old man?
no.  I am going to be on that boat with sugar.
and where is he going to be?
he is going to be ashore with you.
with me?
that is right.
oh, no!  not tonight, josephine!
daphne - your boy friend is waving at you.
you can both go take a flying jump.
remember - he is your date for tonight. so smile.
come on, you can do better than that. give him teeth - the whole personality.
why do i let you talk me into these things? why?
because we are pals - buddies - the two musketeers.
do not give me the musketeers!  how'm i going to keep the guy ashore?
tell him you get seasick on a yacht. play miniature golf with him.
oh, no.  I am not getting caught in a miniature sand trap with that guy.
which of you dolls is daphne?
bull fiddle.
it is from satchel mouth at table seven.  this is from me to you, doll.
beat it, buster.
never mind leaving your door open - i got a passkey.
what are you doing with my flowers?
I am just borrowing them.  you will get them back tomorrow.
i guess he is not going to show up - it is give minutes to one - you suppose he forgot?
well, you know how those millionaires are.  these came for you.
for me?  it is shell oil.
no!
yes.  he wants me to have supper with him - on his yacht - he is going to pick me up at the pier.
no!
yes.
you heard her - yes.
oh, josephine - just imagine - me, sugar kowalczyk, from sandusky, ohio, on a millionaire's yacht.  if my mother could only see me now -
but it is such a waste - a full moon - an empty yacht -
I will throw up!
well, then, why do not we go dancing? i know a little road-house, down the coast -
well, I will be - !  he does have a bicycle.
who?
about that roadhouse -
they got a cuban band that is the berries. why do not we go there - blindfold the orchestra - and tango till dawn?
you know something, mr. fielding? you are dynamite!
you are a pretty hot little firecracker yourself.
been waiting long?
it is not how long you wait - it is who you are waiting for.
thank you.  and thank you for the flowers.
i wanted them to fly down some orchids from our greenhouse but all of long island is fogged in.
it is the thought that counts.
i seem to be out of gas.
it is sort of funny - you being out of gas - i mean, shell oil and everything -
i just got this motorboat - it is an experimental model.
looks like they are on the wrong track.
do you mind riding backwards? it may take a little longer -
it is not how long it takes - it is who is taking you.
it looked so small from the beach - but when you are on it, it is more like a cruiser - or a destroyer.
just regulation size.  we have three like this.
three?
mother keeps hers in southampton - and dad took his to venezuela - the company is laying a new pipe line.
my dad is more interested in railroads. baltimore and ohio.  which is the port and which is the starboard?
well, that depends - on whether you are coming or going - i mean, normally the aft is on the other side of the stern - and that is the bridge - so you can get from one side of the boat to the other - how about a glass of champagne?
love it.  which way?
yes - now let's see - where do you suppose the steward set it up?
oh, you have an upstairs and a downstairs.
yes - that is our hurricane cellar.
oh - in here.
of course.  on thursdays, they always serve me in the small salon.
it is exquisite - like a floating mansion.
it is all right for a bachelor.
what a beautiful fish.
caught him off cape hatteras.
what is it?
oh - a member of the herring family.
a herring?  is not it amazing how they get those big fish into those little glass jars?
they shrink when they are marinated.
champagne?
i do not mind if i do.
down the hatch - as we say at sea.
bon voyage.
look at all that silverware.
trophies.  you know - skeet-shooing, dog-breeding, water polo...
water polo - is not that terribly dangerous?
I will say.  i had two ponies drowned under me.
where is your shell collection?
yea, of course.  now where could they have put it?  on thursdays, I am sort of lost around here.
what is on thursdays?
it is the crews' night off.
you mean we are alone on the boat?
completely.
you know, I have never been completely alone with a man before - in the middle of the night - in the middle of the ocean.
oh, it is perfectly safe.  we are well anchored - the ship is in shipshape - and the coast guard promised to call me if there are any icebergs around.
it is not the icebergs.  but there are certain men who would try to take advantage of a situation like this.
you are flattering me.
well, of course, I am sure you are a gentleman.
oh, it is not that. it is just that I am - harmless.
harmless - how?
well, i do not know how to put it - but i have this thing about girls.
what thing?
they just sort of leave me cold.
you mean - like frigid?
it is more like a mental block.  when I am with girls, it does nothing to me.
have you tried?
have i?  I am trying all the time.
see?  nothing.
nothing at all?
complete washout.
that makes me feel just awful.
oh, it is not your fault.  it is just that every now and then mother nature throws somebody a dirty curve.  something goes wrong inside.
you mean you can not fall in love?
not anymore.  i was in love once - but I would rather not talk about it.  how about a little cold pheasant?
what happened?
i do not want to bore you.
oh, you could not possibly.
well, it was my freshman year at princeton - there was this girl - her name was nellie - her father was vice-president of hupmobile - she wore glasses, too.  that summer we spent our vacation at the grand canyon - we were standing on the highest ledge, watching the sunset - suddenly we had an impulse to kiss - i took off my glasses - i took a step toward her - she took a step toward me -
oh, no!
yes.  eight hours later they brought her up by mule - i gave her three transfusions - we had the same blood type - type o - it was too late.
talk about sad.
ever since then -  numb - no feelings.  like my heart was shot full of novocaine.
you poor, poor boy.
yes - all the money in the world - but what good is it?  mint sauce or cranberries?
how can you think about food at a time like this?
what else is there for me?
is it that hopeless?
my family did everything they could - hired the most beautiful french upstairs maids - got a special tutor to read me all the books that were banned in boston - imported a whole troupe of balinese dancers with bells on their ankles and those long fingernails - what a waste of money!
have you ever tried american girls?
why?
is that anything?
thanks just the same.
maybe if you saw a good doctor...
i have.  spent six months in vienna with professor freud - flat on my back -  - then there were the mayo brothers - and injections and hypnosis and mineral baths - if i were not such a coward, I would kill myself.
do not talk like that.  I am sure there must be some girl some place that could -
if i ever found a girl that could - I would marry her like that.
would you do me a favor?
what is it?
i may not be dr. freud or a mayo brother or one of those french upstairs girls - but could i take another crack at it?
all right - if you insist.
anything this time?
I am afraid not.  terribly sorry.
would you like a little more champagne?  and maybe if we had some music -  - how do you dim these lights?
look, it is terribly sweet of you to want to help out - but it is no use.  i think the light switch is over there -  - and that is the radio.  it is like taking somebody to a concert when he is tone deaf.
you are not giving yourself a chance. do not fight it.  relax.
it is like smoking without inhaling.
so inhale!
daphne...
yes, osgood?
you are leading again.
sorry.
well - ?
I am not quite sure.  try it again.
i got a funny sensation in my toes - like somebody was barbecuing them over a slow flame.
lets throw another log on the fire.
i think you are on the right track.
i must be - because your glasses are beginning to steam up.
i never knew it could be like this.
thank you.
they told me i was caputt - finished - washed up - and now you are making a chump out of all those experts.
mineral baths - now really!
where did you learn to kiss like that?
oh, you know - junior league - charity bazaars - i used to sell kisses for the milk fund.
good night.
good morning.
how much do i owe the milk fund so far?
eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
let's make it an even million.
hi, jerry.  everything under control?
have i got things to tell you!
what happened?
I am engaged.
congratulations.  who is the lucky girl?
i am.
what?
osgood proposed to me.  we are planning a june wedding.
what are you talking about? you can not marry osgood.
you think he is too old for me?
jerry!  you can not be serious!
why not?  he keeps marrying girls all the time!
but you are not a girl.  you are a guy! and why would a guy want to marry a guy?
security.
jerry, you would better lie down. you are not doing well.
look, stop treating me like a child. I am not stupid.  i know there is a problem.
I will say there is!
his mother - we need her approval.  but I am not worried - because i do not smoke.
jerry - there is another problem.
like what?
like what are you going to do on your honeymoon?
we have been discussing that.  he wants to go to the riviera - but i sort of lean toward niagara falls.
you are out of your mind!  how can you get away with this?
oh, i do not expect it to last.  I will tell him the truth when the time comes.
like when?
like right after the ceremony.
oh.
then we will get a quick annulment - he will make a nice settlement on me - I will have those alimony checks coming in every month -
jerry, listen to me - there are laws - conventions - it is just not being done!
but joe - this may be my last chance to marry a millionaire!
look, jerry - take my advice - forget the whole thing - just keep telling yourself you are a boy!
I am a boy - I am a boy - i wish i were dead - I am a boy - I am a boy -  what am i going to do about my engagement present?
what engagement present?
hey - these are real diamonds.
naturally.  you think my fiance is a bum? now i guess I will have to give it back.
wait a minute - lets not be hasty. after all, we do not want to hurt poor osgood's feelings.
i thought i heard voices - and i just had to talk to somebody.  i do not feel like going to sleep.
i know what you need - a slug of bourbon.
oh, no.  I am off that stuff - for good.
did you have a nice time?
nice?  it was suicidally beautiful.
did he get fresh?
of course not.  as a matter of fact, it was just the other way around.  you see he needs help.
what for?
and talk about elegant - you should see the yacht - candlelight - mint sauce and cranberries.
gee, i wish I would been there.
I am going to see him again tonight - and every night - i think he is going to propose to me - as soon as he gets up his nerve.
that is some nerve!
daphne got a proposal tonight.
really?
from a rich millionaire.
that is wonderful.  poor josephine.
me?
daphne has a beau - i have a beau - if we could only find somebody for you.
hi, spats.  we was laying eight to one you would not show.
why would not i?
we thought you was all broken up about toothpick charlie.
well, we all got to go sometime.
yeah.  you never know who is going to be next.  okay, spats.  report to the sergeant- at-arms.
what for?
orders from little bonaparte.
well, spats colombo - if i were saw one.
hello, copper.  what brings you down to florida?
i heard you opera-lovers were having a little rally - so i thought i better be around in case anybody decides to sing.
big joke!
say, maestro - where were you at three of the clock on st. valentine's day?
me?  i was at rigoletto.
what is his first name?  and where does he live?
that is an opera, you ignoramus.
where did they play it - in a garage on clark street?
clark street?  never heard of it.
ever hear of the deluxe french cleaners on wabash avenue?
why?
because the day after the shooting you sent in a pair of spats - they had blood on them.
i cut myself shaving.
you shave with your spats on?
i sleep with my spats on.
quit kidding.  you did that vulcanizing job on toothpick charlie - and we know it.
you and who else?
me and those two witnesses whom your lawyers have been looking for all over chicago.
you boys know anything about any garage - or any witnesses?
i feel like such a tramp - taking jewelry from a man under false pretenses.
get it while you are young.  and you better fix your lips.  you want to look nice for osgood, do not you?
it is just going to break his heart when he finds out i can not marry him.
so?  it is going to break sugar's heart when she finds out I am not a millionaire.  that is life.  you can not make an omelette without breaking an egg.
what are you giving me with the omelette?
nag, nag, nag.  look, we got a yacht, we got a bracelet, you got osgood, I have got sugar - we are really cooking.
joe -
what?
i do not mean to be forward - but am not i had the pleasure of meeting you two broads before?
oh, no!
i tell you, joe, they are on to us.  they are going to line us up against the wall and -  eh-eh-eh-eh-eh - and then the police are going to find two dead dames, and they are going to take us to the ladies' morgue, and when they undress us - i tell you, joe, I am just going to die of shame.
shut up and keep packing.
okay, joe.
not that, you idiot.
but they are from osgood.  he wanted me to wear them tonight.
joe, if we get out of this hotel alive, you know what we are going to do? we are going to sell the bracelet, and grab a boat to south america and hide out in one of those banana republics -  the way i figure is, if we eat nothing but bananas, we can live there for fifty years - maybe a hundred years - that is, if we get out of the hotel alive.  did we forget anything?
there is our shaving stuff - and there is sugar.
sugar?
get me room 414.
what do you think you are doing?
telephone call?  who is got time for that?
we can not just walk out on her without saying goodbye.
since when?  usually you leave 'em with nothing but a kick in the teeth.
that is when i was a saxophone player. now I am a millionaire.
drop her a postcard.  any minute now those gorillas may be up here -
hello, room 414?  this is the ship-to-shore operator - i have a call for miss sugar cane.
hello, my dearest darling.  so good to hear your voice again.
i may throw up.
that is funny - i never slept better.  and i had the most wonderful dream.  i was still on the yacht, and the anchor broke loose - and we drifted for days and days - you were the captain and i was the crew - i kept a lookout for icebergs, and i sorted your shells, and mixed your cocktails, and wiped the steam off your glasses - and when i woke up, i felt like swimming right back to you.
yes.  now about our date for tonight...
I will meet you on the pier again - right after the show.
I am afraid not.  i can not make it tonight.
tomorrow night?
not tomorrow, either.  you see, i have to leave - something unexpected came up - I am sailing right away.
where to?  south america?  oh. that is unexpected.
you see, we have those oil interests in venezuela - and i just got a cable from dad - the board of directors decided on a merger.
a merger?  how long will you be gone?
quite a while.  as a matter of fact, I am not coming back at all.
you are not?
it is all rather complicated - what we call high finance - but it so happens that the president of the venezuelan syndicate has a daughter, and -
oh - that kind of a merger.  is she young? pretty?
according to our tax advisers, she is only so-so.  but - that is the way the oil gushes. a man in my position has a certain responsibility to the stockholders - all those little people who invest their life savings -
oh, of course.  i understand.  at least, i think i do.
i knew you would.
i only wish there were something i could do for you.
but you have.  you have given me all that inside information - first thing tomorrow I am going to call my broker and have him buy fifty thousand shares of venezuelan oil.
smart move.  oh, by the way - did you get my flowers? you know, those orchids from my greenhouse - the fog finally lifted over long island, and they flew them down this morning.
yes, they are here.  oh - white orchids.  would you believe it - i have not had white orchids since i was a debutante.  what is this?
what is what?  oh, that.  just a little going away present.
real diamonds.  they must be worth their weight in gold.  are you always this generous?
not always.  but i want you to know I am very grateful for what you did for me.
i did not do anything.  it just happened.
oh.  the navigator just came in - we are ready to cast off.
well, anchors aweigh, you have a bon voyage.  and if you need an orchestra to play at your wedding, we will be through here in a couple of weeks.
goodbye, my darling.
i do not know about the captain - but the navigator is getting his tail out of here.
yeah - lets shove off.
wait a minute - my bracelet.  what happened to my bracelet?
what do you mean, your bracelet? it is our bracelet.
all right. what happened to our bracelet?
do not worry.  we did the right thing with it.
what did we do?  joe, you are not pulling one of your old tricks.
no tricks, no mirrors, nothing up my sleeve.  it is on the level this time.
what is the matter, sugar?
i do not know.  all of a sudden, I am thirsty.
how did you get that bracelet?
you like it?
i always did.
junior gave it to me.  it must have at least thirty stones -
thirty-four.
he is going to south america to marry some other girl - that is what they call high finance.
that is what i call a louse!  if i were you, sugar, I would throw that bracelet right back in his face.
daphne -
he was the first nice guy i ever met in my life - and the only one who ever gave me anything.
you will forget him, sugar.
how can i?  no matter where i go, there'll always be a shell station on the corner.  I will bring this back when it is empty.
you crazy or something?  the place is crawling with mobsters - gangrene is setting in - and you are making like diamond jim brady!  how are we going to get out of here?  how are we going to eat?
we will walk.  and if we have to, we will starve.
there you go with that we again.
say, boss - i been talking to some of the other delegates - and the word is that little bonaparte is real sore about what happened to toothpick charlie.  him and charlie, they used to be choir boys together.
stop, or I will burst out crying.
he even got charlie's last toothpick - the one from the garage - and had it gold-plated.
like i was telling you - little bonaparte is getting soft.  he does not have it here any more.  used to be like a rock.  too bad.  i think it is time for him to retire.
same faces - same instruments -  - and here's your valentine's card.
those two musicians from the garage!
they would not be caught dead in chicago - so we will finish the job here.  come on.
all right - so what do we do now?
first thing we got to do is get out of these clothes.
what happened?
me and tiny, we had them cornered - but we lost 'em in the shuffle.
where were you guys?
did you hear that?
yeah, but they are not watching yachts. come on - you are going to call osgood.
what will i tell him?
tell him you are going to elope with him.
elope?  but there are laws - conventions -
there is a convention, all right.  there is also the ladies' morgue.
it is all fixed!  osgood is meeting us on the pier -
we are not on the pier yet -
this is my friend josephine - she is going to be a bridesmaid.
pleased to meet you.
come one!
another bridesmaid?
flower girl.
sugar!  what do you think you are doing?
i told you - I am not very bright.
you do not want me, sugar - I am a liar and a phony - a saxophone player - one of those no-goodnicks you have been running away from -
i know.  every time!
do yourself a favor - go back where the millionaires are - the sweet end of the lollipop - not the cole slaw in the face and the old socks and the squeezed-out tube of toothpaste -
that is right - pour it on.  talk me out of it.
i called mama - she was so happy she cried - she wants you to have her wedding gown - it is white lace.
osgood - i can not get married in your mother's dress.  she and i - we' not built the same way.
we can have it altered.
oh, no you don't!  look, osgood - I am going to level with you. we can not get married at all.
why not?
well, to begin with, I am not a natural blonde.
it does not matter.
and i smoke. i smoke all the time.
i do not care.
and i have a terrible past.  for three years now, I have been living with a saxophone player.
i forgive you.
and i can never have children.
we will adopt some.
but you do not understand!  I am a man!
well - nobody's perfect.
