there am not no possums in this woods tonight, daddy.
looks that way, son. guess the cold done drove most of 'em down to the big water country -- but if there is one left out here -- we got to find him.
it is cold, daddy!
here, put my jacket over you.
if anybody's to blame, it is me -- i oughta nailed him when i took that shot.
it was too dark, daddy.
yeah. we better git back to house now.
yes, sir...
you oughta be tired, too, sounder. that possum shore whipped the hell outta you tonight!
he beat you, too, daddy, and you had a big old shootin' rifle.
boy, you do not make funny with your daddy like that.
david lee...
yes, sir...
you had a rough time out there tonight -- so you stay home from that school tomorrow.
i wanna go -- the trip do not bother me none.
you learnin' anything at that school?
yes, sir -- i learn to write a little bit, and i can read a lot--
readin' must be somethin' powerful, huh, son?
yes, sir...
when the fall comes in these parts, the night moon runs away like a rabbit -- you could stay out here lookin' all night, and not see a thing out yonder.
we goin' huntin' again tomorrow ?
yep. i guess you must wonder why though, what with the luck we havin', but like i always say--
"you lose some of the time, what you always go afta, but you lose all the time what you do not go afta!"
now who says i did not lay my mark on you, boy!
david lee, it is time for you to get to bed!
goodnight.
night, son!
and do not wake up josie mae and earl!
i bet you could use a hot cup of coffee, nathan lee.
i shore could, miss rebecca.
the boy done went into my walnuts! i skin my fingers to the bone to pick two pounds that is worth almost nothing at the commissary and he done took almost half of what i pick!
the boy is hungry, rebecca.
we been through these off-seasons before -- we made it.
what we make it to? the next season to work ourselves to death, share croppin' for old man howard, so he can get richer and we can not even eat when the croppin' time is done?
what is in there, david!?
sausage and hambones!
mama, there is hot meat on the stove!
that is right!
where did it come from, mama?
where all meat come from -- now git yourself washed up and be snappy about it -- you got six miles ahead of you to that school.
good mornin', nathan.
mornin'...
you ready to eat?
I will wait till after the children.
how is the weather out there?
little chilly.
hope it do not freeze out our baseball game today!
do not take all day at that table, david lee.
mama, when kin me and earl go to school with david lee?
maybe soon--
ready to go, mama!
tuck that shirt in, david lee.
you got two shirts on?
yes mam...
when you get outta that school, you come right on back home, you all gon' have to take this laundry work i done for miss boatwright today.
we brought your laundry, miss boatwright.
come in, children.
this is for your mama's work, and here's something for the three of you.
thank you, miss boatwright.
it is about the three musketeers.
thank you, miss boatwright.
when you read it we will talk about it...
yes mam... we gotta go, miss boatwright.. .
tell rebecca i said 'hi', now...
who is winning, mama?
nobody yet -- it is all tied up.
if they heard me sing like this up north I would be richer than the man i sharecrop for.
and if they saw me pitch the way i did today -- they would hire me just to strike out babe ruth!
what do they do in the white churches, mama?
same as we -- they pray.
you know, one time by mistake i went into a white church down in row county and to this day i do not know how'n the devil i got outta that church alive.
they probly thought you was crazy.
i guess so -- but i went home and did me some praying to the lord. i said, lord, i went into this white church down in row and all i want you to tell me is how i ever got outta there in one piece.
what did the lord tell you, ike?
he said, i do not know, ike -- you doin' better'n me, i been tryin' to git in there for 200 years and am not make it yet!
if there ever was a devil in this county, ike, you is it!
ike, you could make a song outta that!
who is they?
children, come here...
do not take my daddy! please do not take my daddy!
david, come back here!
mama, why did they take daddy away?
because he cared so damn much about you and me, child.
is he gon' be gone long?
might be...
'bye, mama...
'bye, son -- i will not be gone long.
howya do, rebecca. i sorta been expectin' you this mornin'.
i wanta see nathan.
i wish i could, rebecca, but i can not let you.
i do not understand that, sheriff young.
it is the rules and i got to follow 'em. no visitin' 'cept holidays and sunday -- and no womenfolk anytime.
you mean to tell me i can not see my own husband?
that is the way they do things here in landsdown. i just follow orders.
i got to see my husband, sheriff young!
I would like to help you, rebecca. but all that would do, is git us both in trouble.
will they give him a trial?
shore thing -- next week sometime, and as soon as i git the day, I will ride out and let you know 'bout it.
you gotta low-life job, mister sheriff!
rebecca, you jest the one i wanta see.
i brought these walnuts to trade.
that is one dollar an' twenty cents.
i wanta get some things.
i hope it am not a lot,'cause i can not give you no more credit till the croppin' season gits back, that is if na--
i did not say nothin' 'bout credit, mr. howard.
whatcha wanta order?
i need some nutmeg, flour, eggs, sugar, and...
dammit, I am talkin' to you, woman! i got to farm to think about and i need answers.
the season is a long way off, mr. howard, and by that time, nathan oughta be home. if he ain't, believe me -- the children and me -- we will grow the crops. we have to because we owe you all that money -- mr. howard.
did you see daddy?
no, son. we havta wait 'til the holiday comes -- anyway, they will not let womenfolk see their men no time.
can i go when the holiday comes?
you sure can, son...
any sign of sounder?
no mam -- i looked all over.
i think maybe he was scraped on the head by that shot. i do not think he is dead -- just gone somewhere to heal himself.
what is your daddy's name?
nathan lee morgan...
well, looka here...
hi, daddy...
hi to you, son...
mama is outside with josie mae and earl.
they is!? it shore is good to see you, boy!
we did not find sounder yet.
he will show up one day.
do you think he is dead, daddy?
naww -- he will come back to you, soon as his wounds heal. this cake shore is tasty, son.
it is a shame they will not let 'em come in here. if i had the strength I would knock down these damn walls -- if i could just git my arms 'round your mama right now -- is they on this side of us, son?
i think so...
can you say what camp they gon' send you to, daddy?
i do not know, son -- they will not tell us things like that -- but i do not want you all to come here no more.
why, daddy; you will not be here?
just do like i tell you -- I will get word to you through the visitin' preacher.
no, i am not got no word yet, rebecca. i went to the courthouse yesterday to see 'bout it, but they just will not tell me nothin' about what labor camp nathan was sent to. I am sorry, rebecca.
it is a shame, reverend. it is a damn shame.
i hope you do not take to bitterness, sister morgan. i tell you like i tell all the women in this church who got the same trouble you got. no matter what the trial or what the misery is, i tell 'em to stay with god.
yeah, he will crawl into my bed tonight, lie close to my body and keep me warm -- and rectify the evil in the men who live over us in this valley.
it is not that simple, sister rebecca -- the lord works in mysterious ways -- we come into this life with nothin' and we will leave it with nothing.
is that a blessing, reverend?
what is it, david lee?
listen, mama...
poor creature...
he will be all right, mama. I will make him all right.
he eats all right -- his throat am not scarred.
then why do not he holler like he usta?
he will... come on, git down and act like a possum.
i do not look like no possum!
act like one!
i guess I will havta work harder to git him back like he usta be.
why do not you try and git you a new dog?
david, you never cease to amaze me at how good you are in taking care of my garden.
my father taught me...
would you like to have a cool drink, david?
no, thank you -- i gotta go do some work in the field today.
miss boatwright --
yes, david...
will you help me to find out what camp they sent my father to?
see you tomorrow, miss boatwright.
david!
yes, ma'am...?
I will find out where your daddy is for you.
thank you, miss boatwright!
do not mention this to anyone! you hear me, david!
mama! mama! miss boatwright, say she gon' help me find where daddy is!
good! but you do not have to tell the whole valley 'bout it! you will get that woman in trouble!
i can not do it, rita -- that is the policy here on colored prisoners, and i am not about to change it, not even for a friend like you.
charlie, just because a man and his family are colored, you--
now look, rita, i do not make the rules -- you puttin' yourself on a limb, comin' here, askin' me to do a thing like this. and i be damn if I am going to jeopardize my job because you are in love with a little colored boy!
but, charlie --
no! n-o, no!
i see you found what you was lookin' for.
i did look, charlie, but i--
no buts, rita!
charlie, you have no legal right not to let this boy know where his father is! you hear that, you and this whole damn court house; what you are doing is wrong!
do not tell me about what is wrong. you come into my office as a friend and steal city files! i could have you arrested for that -- and if you give out that information to anybody, that is exactly what I am going to do -- and I will tell everybody in this town how you got the information and who you got it for! you will not have a friend left in this county to bring you a piece of candy!
you would do that, would not you?
you getting the point, mrs. boatwright.
you know where my father is, do not you, miss boatwright?
no, he was wrong, david, i did not find out.
but i saw you -- you looked in there, and you found out, miss boatwright.
if i tell you i didn't, david, that is what i mean.
but, miss boatwright, you--
i do not know a damn thing, now stop bothering me about it!
come, I will take you home.
I will walk...
do not pout now, david, it is a long trip.
I am used to it.
hello, david...
hi, mrs. boatwright...  I am sorry 'bout the way i acted the other day, miss boatwright.
mama, what was we laughin' for?
at the way you ask funny questions, josie mae!
can not sleep?
no, ma'am...  mama, i wanted mrs. boatwright to find out where daddy is, so me and sounder can go see him.
so did i. i figured when the time got right, we could all take a day or two and walk up there, but it is not the kind of long trip for a child to take alone.
i can do it, mama -- you know that. in the bible stories you read to us, everybody's always goin' on a long journey. jacob goes into a strange land where his uncle is and he do not even know where he lives, but he finds him. everybody finds what they supposed to find.
but you will be away from home for days -- what will you do when the dark comes, where will you sleep? i can not send you away from here like that!
mama, do not i always do what you say -- every time i go to the fields to plant the corn, to miss boatwright's and the woods -- you tell me what to do and i do it, and you do not worry.
no, i do not and i ought not not to after the way you have taken over since they took him away -- and i would like for you to see 'im so you can come back and tell me about 'im.  the field's all planted, so i guess i can spare you for a little while. when do you wanta leave?
can i go day after tomorrow?
yes, son. you better get back to bed.
good night, mama...
good night...
i wish you would not take the dog with you, david -- he is likely to be a burden to you.
i got to, mama. i know daddy wants to see him.
here's your food -- now you go straight to that place -- if you need to rest, go into a church or railroad station -- but do not go into nobody's house, you hear me?
yes, mam...
ask your daddy to give you some word about when he will be comin' home -- and tell 'im we love him.
mister, can you visit anybody here?
got to wait 'til visitin' days.
when is that?
sunday...
do you know my daddy, nathan lee morgan?
never heard of 'im. we got to lotta men here...
i just wanta wash my hand. it is got blood where i hurt it.
you do not live around here, do you?
no, mam... i come from way back there. me and my dog was tryin' to find my daddy and we got lost.
is he here in borderdale?
i do not know, he is in a prison camp.
here, you put your hand under the water and I will pump for you.
my name is camille -- camille johnson and I am the supervisor of this school. what is your name?
david lee morgan. my dog's name is sounder.  that feels better.
let me see it...
you keep looking around, david. do not you go to school?
sometime, but not like this.
it is a good thing your hand did not become infected -- how did you cut it like this?
me and sounder went to this prison camp to see my daddy and the police guard runs us away and i fell on some glass.
did your mother know you were going to see your father?
uh huh...
that does it...
thank you, miss johnson.
i do not live far from here. you and your dog can come home with me and have yourself a hot meal and then we will talk about how to get you back home.
you got a pretty house, miss johnson!
i try...
and you say all them people is dead now?
that is right--
they lived a long time ago -- before you and i were born.
where is africa, miss johnson?
here it is, right here.
that is where we come from first?
that is where we came from first.
and the other people you told me 'bout, they is all colored folk?
colored.
do not you teach in your school 'bout folk who am not dead?
sure--
here's one by a man that is very much alive.
what is his name?
dr. william e. b. dubois.
what he talk 'bout?
why do not you sit and I will read you something he said.
:--the strange endings of nature they have seen, may give the world new points of view and make their loving, living, and doing precious to all human...
:the night in the woods with his father and sounder. the shouting and laughter after the baseball game --
:...hearts. and to themselves in these days that try their souls...
:he, josie and earl, running and playing in the field.
:...the chance to soar in the dim blue air above smoke is to their...
:his visit with his father at the county jail house --
:...finer spirits boon and guerdon for what they lose on earth by being black.
:his mother, with her head thrown back, her eyes aglitter and laughing.
you are a friendly lady, miss johnson.
and you are a tired little boy. I will make up the cot and you must get some sleep.
what about sounder?
he will get his place too -- now off with your clothes and into bed.
now do not you think it is time you told me all about yourself?
i have a mother and her name is rebecca -- my father's name is nathan lee morgan, and...
you know that the class is going to challenge your story, do not you, clarence?
yes, miss johnson...
go on...
me and my little sister, went down to the water hole, last saturday--
how was your sister after you pulled her out of the water?
she was dirty and wet...
clarence, would you tell us a story that was not true, after telling us it was?
no, miss johnson...
can you swim?
yes mam...
well, how did you like the class, david?
it was the best thing i ever been to, miss johnson!
... so me and sounder, ran right by the men that was the prisoners, and crawled under the fence! that is when i cut my hand on the glass. it hurt like mad! but i kept runnin', and then i did not feel no more hurtin' till i stopped runnin'!  why was that, miss johnson?
because all you could think of was getting away from the guard.
oh... . you right, that is all that was worryin' me right then...
you know, that was a good thing you did for clarence, in class today. i believed his story, but i was afraid the other children wouldn't...
he was real scared nobody would believe him -- i could tell, even when he first stood up.
you could? how?
i been like that myself, when i thought nobody was gonna believe me...  you wanna hear another story?!
not now, david, it is time for bed. you have a long trip ahead of you in the morning...
what are you looking at, out there? there is nothing to see.
my daddy likes to look into the dark, even when there am not nothin to see -- it is what you hear he say.
you think about your father a lot, do not you?
yes mam...
well, you should not worry about him too much, david.
what do i tell my mama when i get home? i did not find him and that is what i wanted to do.
but you did all you could, david. not many little boys could have gone on such a journey as you did.
but where is my daddy!?
i can not answer that for you -- but it is no fault of your own that you do not know where your father is now. you tell me what you did that kept you from finding your father.  come on, tell me...
nothin'...
and so you did your job, right?
yes, mam...
whewwww! you sure keep my mind jumping, boy!
what do that mean?
means you keep me using my head, and that is good!
i cut it on some glass and we got lost, mama.
did you find your father?
did not see 'im, mama. the other men there say they did not know daddy.
i guess they musta sent 'im to another camp.
what is that you carryin'?
some books miss johnson gave me.
who is miss johnson?
miss johnson is a teacher, and...
so when i left, she gave me these books.
miss johnson must be a real kindly lady.
she is, mama...  when the fall comes, she wants me to come to her school.
how can you do that? you do not live anywhere near that school.
she says i can come live with her while school goin' on, and come back home every time there am not no school.
but who is going to help me here with the house and in the field?
what is wrong with him, david?
it is the heat.
it is when the heat is so bad, dogs go crazy.
he will not go mad -- he is just lookin' for a cooler spot.
what is wrong with your leg, daddy?
got it hurt in a dynamite blast, son. the dirty dogs had no more use for me, so they let me have time off my sentence, and let me come home.
the most important thing is that you are home!  we was going to have cold eatin' tonight, 'cause of the heat, but now, I am goin' to cook!
well, let's get to it, miss rebecca,'cause i been waitin' too long a time for your good cookin'!
son, that was some trip you went on...
where was you, daddy?
that musta been afta they sent me to this place call clayburn. that was the hardest workin' camp they sent me to. the work was so hard, you had to look for somethin' to laugh about to keep from feelin' the whole pain in your body. like one time, it was in the middle of the day, and there were not no sun -- you hear that?
where did the sun go to, daddy?
into the clouds and behind the mountains.
what happened afta that?
the rains started to come, and the prisoners were scared to run 'cause they had to wait for guards to round us up, and tell us when to move -- but we did not mind the rain comin' 'cause it meant we would git a little rest -- we just stood there, watchin' the guards and they weapons get wet, and that made us all feel kinda good for a minute. i was laughin' all over inside -- a minute, that is all, but what a minute it was!
and me too, son! you shore done got to be such a big little man!
we goin' huntin' again, daddy !?
you bet we is!
i cleaned and oiled all your stuff while you was gone...
goodnight, daddy...
goodnight to you, son...
daddy, you home now... that is all i want -- i do not want nothin' else...
come here, son...
mornin', son...
mornin', daddy...
where is everybody?
they gone to the field...
guess i can not just lay here, then.
you feel alright today, daddy?
great, son -- not like wakin' up in jail. for a minute or two, did not quite know where i was, but when i saw your face lookin down on me, made me know right away the day was going to be a good one, and it all belonged to me!
daddy, when is we goin' huntin'?
soon -- but it will not be too much huntin' you will be doin','cordin' to a good little story your mama told me last night -- you will be goin' away from here, will not you?
hi ya, rebecca...
tired.
somebody told me nathan was back. how is he?
why do not you pay him a visit, mr. howard? he will tell you all about it.
what did he want?
to invite you to his house -- the two of you could just sit under the shade tree, drink ice cold whiskey, and just shoot the breeze!
did you tell 'im i was too busy for that kinda stuff?
well, let's get to work!
you sure you feel up to it, nathan?
yeah. i feel real up to it right now. come on, david lee, you and me'll do the loading.
I am real proud of how you helped your mama to keep this place goin', david lee.
thank you, daddy...
wheeew! this is some hard work, but it beats goin' to jail.
you will not be goin' to jail again, will you, daddy?
no, son -- they would have to kill me before I would let 'em do that to me again!
you hurt, daddy!?
no, no, I am all right, son... this damn leg just will not act right no more!
what is wrong, nathan?
he can not get up, mama!
this done happen before. it am not nothin' -- i just have to wait a minute or two.
is there something i can do to help you?
yeah, just stay where you is...
there, you see?
i see, all right -- it is time for us to get out of this field.
i just got out here!
it is lunchtime, and i wanna have a talk with you, nathan lee. come on, children...
hi ya doin' there, ike?
any time it is saturday and i do not hafta do any work, I am doin' okay!
whatcha got there?
seems this piece of mail came to mr. howard's place this mornin' and he had me to bring it over here.
well, let me have it.
do not belong to you! it is for the little important man, here!
from miss johnson --
well, am not you gon' open and read it for us?
dear david, if you are coming to school here, be sure to bring some warm clothes. the school term will begin september 8th, but it would be good for you to be here by the 4th or 5th of the month. i do hope everything is fine and you will be here. give my "hello" to your family. yours truly, miss camille johnson...
september 4 -- how far away is that?
where you goin'!?
to the commissary to get this boy some clothes! I am gon' get everybody somethin'!
but, nathan--
do not tell me nothin' 'bout what we owe old man howard! I will do the owing, and let him worry 'bout the collecting! come on, david lee!
you just came back home, daddy. i do not wanna leave right now -- i wanna stay home and be with you.
and i wanta be with you, too, but this school is somethin' that is good for you -- somethin you need, like good air to breathe, and i want you to have it, boy, and that is the way it is going to be!
but, daddy, you need me here to help you in the field -- daddy, your leg is hurt -- you can not work like you used to. who is going to help you!? who is going to do the work, daddy?!
let me tell you somethin', boy! i do not care if both of my legs was cut off! i can do more work in that field, than you could in a hundred years!
i will not go, daddy! i will not go!
now wait justa minute! you do not tell me what you am not going to do! i tell you! i say, you goin' to that school, you goin'! you hear me!
i love you, son! do not ever think i do not love you!  we gon' get to be friends?
yes, daddy! yes!
naw, I am carryin' it!
thank you, josie mae.
be good and be smart, little boy.
yes, ma'm...
you know somethin', daddy?
what is that, son?
I am gon' miss this old raggedy place.
