I am fine.
congratulations on your...recent award.
thank you.
is there anything i can help you with?
no, just enjoying the view.
well, there is no better to way to see the world, than with us.
so I have been told.
well if you need anything, please feel free to ask me.  just a reminder we have fabulous cuisine available 24 hours in the earthrise room, and a large selection of vintage wines here in our ship bar.
I am homesick.
homesick?  it is only been two days!
we should have gone to nassau. at least we could go swimming, lie on the beach.
ah hell we can always do that. listen believe me, once we get to the moon, your tone is going to change.
how is it going to be different from this?  go see some boring footprint under glass?
look you were the one who wanted to do something different, something to tell all your friends.  any chump can go to nassau.
look around you baby, we are rubbing elbows with royalty, oil sheiks, this is class.  you will be envied by everyone.
i guess so.
besides i can not wait to tee off on the sea of tranquillity. that should shore up that prick hank drexler.
why should she, it is her fault. all guests are told not to eat in zero gravity, but she just wanted to have fun i guess, did not realize what a grain of salt can do to sophisticated machinery.
well, i guess she figures she is paying for it.
am not it the truth. must be good to be rich.
well i guess there is no time like the present.  I will go run a check on that room, just to show we go that extra mile for our guests.
sounds like you have been talking to mac too much.
evening.
it can not be.
excuse me?
you are warren wayne.
uh, yes i am.  and you are?
anna koros. she sensually extends her hand, warren shakes it -
koros, as in...koros?  dimitri koros?
my grandfather.  my god, i can not tell you what a fan i am of yours! you were magnificent in deadly gamble.
oh, thank you.
magnificent, magnificent.
well i appreciate that.
so, what brings you out here?  pleasure cruise?
well a little business too.  in my upcoming project star trackers i play a ship's captain, and i really wanted to get a feel for the outer space experience.  i feel it will add more credibility to my performance.
of course, of course...
so...
well i guess we are neighbors for this trip.
well, so we are.  sure is beautiful, huh?
it certainly is.
well, it was nice meeting you. enjoy the rest of the trip.
I am sure i will.
no, i just ran it!  why are you running it again?
well it is a good thing that i did.
it is telling me fail mode confirmed.  did you see this?
there must be some mistake. you sure you hit the right commands?
yes I am sure i hit the right commands.
why do not you reset and run it again.  the pods check out ok.
you are certain of that?
trust me.  even checked 'em with my own eyes.
all right, I will give it a shot.
oh right, right you are on that research grant.
that is right.
ryan taylor, first mate.  welcome aboard.  first time in space?
yes.  theoretical discoveries aside, there is nothing like the real thing. how about you?
this is my second commercial flight.  i used to run satellite freighters but that got old fast.
so you were looking for a new challenge.
well, plus the money am not that bad. dawn so, tell me, do you think everyone gets their million dollars' worth on this trip of a lifetime?
well, let me put it this way.  most of the cost is due to safety reasons. most people are not familiar with space travel, so we have to take extra precautions in the event they do something careless.
like open an airlock by mistake?
well i do not think there is a chance of that happening.  it is usually the moon walks.  sometimes you feel like a kindergarten teacher.
well i hope i do not do anything careless.
I am sure you will be all right.
actually I have logged about 200 hours of simulated space walking at the institute, mostly related to starship construction.
really?
still, i hope i behave on the moon.  I will stick close to you.
look at this...jesus.
yeah, i guess money do not buy class.
no.  but it buys a lot of other things.
like that piece of ass he was with.
well...i do not mind.  i can put up with it.  I am taking six months off after this, and i will not have to deal with people snapping their fingers at me.
not me.  I am in for the long haul. in nine months I will have enough to take a few years off.
well, more power to you.  me, i start to bug out after too much time out here.
i do not have a problem with it. besides, you get to meet a lot of interesting people.
oh no...i think there is carrots in here...
send it back if you do not want it.
no, i think hygiene is important. it helps you get into the part.
very professional of you.
well, everything's running smoother than a baby's ass.
am not it the truth. the two say nothing for a beat -
so, are you on for the next one?
i do not know.  everything's up in the air at this point, no pun intended.
why, did not they say?
well that hotel begins construction in january, there is going to be a lot of shuttle work.
you want to go back to shuttle work?
it is steady, good benefits.
you gotta think of your old age.
that is very pragmatic of you, barnes.
thank you.
man, I am hungry.  I am going to call the steward, you want anything?.
nah, i already ate.  why do not you just go down there?
what, and leave you here all by your lonesome?
uh...
i think i can handle it.
well, maybe i will.  you sure you do not want anything?
no.  I am all set.  thanks.
well, maybe I will surprise you.
i can hardly wait.
officer taylor, how are you this evening?
mac.  what is shaking?
what did you say to me?
it is a little late for you to be up.
look answer my question!
all too well, captain.
well shut it off at once!
bridge!  can anyone hear me?!
yeah yeah yeah, give me a minute here.
if anyone can hear me please respond!
that is very professional sounding of you, taylor.
barnes, can you hear me, are you all right?
why yes ryan, i am, and thanks for asking.  you do not have to talk to the intercom, i can hear you fine.
what is the condition of the bridge?
the bridge is fine, taylor, how are things down there?
transmit the code 3 emergency and take us offline.  override the airlock sensors and hurry!  we are running out of time, we have to get to the pods!
much as I would like to help you and our valued guests, I am afraid i can't.
what are you talking about! can you transmit the code 3 -
yes i can transmit the code 3 emergency!  i just do not think it is a prudent move at this juncture.
now do you want the good news first or the bad news?
you better start making sense!
ok, i will.  the bad news is the ship is history.  life support will last another 36 hours, maybe.
then we have got to get to the lifepods!
I would advise you to shut up and let me finish taylor.  you need not worry about the lifepods because they are all gone, jettisoned. save for one.
it is still not going to work! they will detect you upon re-entry in an emergency vessel!
who said I will re-enter in the pod? i got friends out in space, ryan, friends willing to get me back unnoticed.  thank god for deregulation huh?
what are we going to do?
i do not know.
we don't.
well maybe there is a way out of here.
fat chance of that.  even if we had c4 and a laser torch these doors would not budge.  that son of a bitch...that stupid son of a bitch.
given a malfunction, how would a rescue team get you out if the doors will not open?
probably come through the wall i suppose.
well maybe we can do something like that.
i do not think you know what you are talking about.  besides, what could we use for tools?  a steak knife?  a corkscrew?
just considering our options... sir.
well now what are we gonna do!
how am i supposed to know?
you are delbert miles!  you have more clout than some whacked out pilot!  talk to him!
talk to him...jesus...
look.  we are talking about life and death here.  i do not know why we are even having this conversation.
well what would you know about it? you do not have anything to lose.
you are going to give him those bank codes, you know why?  because I am telling you to, that is why.  I am not losing my life over some greedy pig.
who are you calling a pig, rummy?
supposing we could get out of this room?  is there anything we could do to reach the bridge?
it depends on the condition of the ship.  if i could get to one of the suit compartments i could check the exterior air locks for a possible entry.
can not we access the mainframe to check the ship's condition?
with what?  how am i going to interface with it?  i need to be able to talk to the system and to have the system talk to me.
barnes?
that is me.
break it down to me, what is going on?
seems like they are cooperating. hopefully I will be out of here and on my way very soon.
well do not drag your ass.  there will not be much of a window for us to link up.  we will be in your orbit trajectory in less than two hours.
yeah, i know bill, i came up with the plan remember?  just have those hangar doors open and ready, i can take it from there.
will do.  what about the distress signal?
i do not know.  i really have not made up my mind yet.  we will see how nicely they behave.
well that is your call.  does not make a damn bit of difference to me.  just as long as i get my cut.
oh you will get it, believe me.  so I will see you in a few.
10-4 good buddy.
uh, that is an affirmative, roger wilco.  please proceed.
we have the codes here.  how do you want to receive them?
well, preferably in tens and twenties...
that was a joke taylor, lighten up!  why do not you just hold them up to the lens.  I will write them down, and once I am through verifying them, I will get back to you.
will you transmit the distress signal?
ok...it's open.
seen one like it before?
sure. it complies with all standard construction codes.
great.
mac, i have a favor to ask you. mac looks at taylor -
certainly.  if you need anything, please feel free to ask me.  just a reminder we have fabulous cuisine available --
yes i know all that.  mac, i need you to help us out with a little technical problem.
certainly.  i have a full working knowledge of the ships operations.
right, i understand that...
i need you to actually do something for me.  i need to access your cpu, directly.
that will not be necessary.  you can simply speak to me.  i understand most languages fluently.
yeah but the ship's mainframe doesn't. i need you to tell it something.
alteration of my central processing unit should be done only by an authorized service dealer.
i know but we are in a bind.
yes mac, but the guests are requesting it.  it will reduce the level of negative feedback.
that is one of my priorities.
now mac, can you tell me the status of this deck?
one moment please...  one moment please...
but the corridor outside this door is open, correct?
yes.  you can enjoy some wonderful views from there.
mac, what about the suit compartments on this level?  can they be accessed?
I am sorry.  the suit compartments are in a non-oxygenated, zero gravity atmosphere.  I am afraid that is off limits to all passengers.
damn it.  if only we could get to those suits... dawn then thinks of something -
why can not we?
i do not know the condition of the compartments.  depending on damage, debris...could be a fatal mistake.
and suppose you could not hold out?
suppose you did not have to hold your breath?
we could send mac.  if he can retrieve one suit, we could go back for the other.
you are right.
ok mac...  I will talk to you on this. i want to find a way to get to the bridge, then i want you to come back.
certainly.  anything i can do to be of service.
he certainly is polite.
close every door behind you!
how is it looking, mac?
i would recommend a maintenance crew in this sector.
is it safe for human transport?
that is affirmative.
it must be oxygenated if we can hear him.
yeah, let's hope he can find a way through.
where the hell did you come from?
hello second mate barnes. i was instructed to come to the bridge.
were not you down in the dining room?
i was there.  officer taylor accessed my cpu directly to open the airlock doors.  they are not functioning properly.
oh he did, did he?
yes he did.  yes he did. barnes looks at the monitor - taylor and the others are still in the dining room -
you did not do anything to the monitors, did you mac?
i did nothing to the monitors.
and what are they doing now, mac?
they are awaiting further information.
were you going to give it to them?
i am here to provide service to... to all our guests.  there is a high level of passenger dissatisfaction. it is my duty...to report this.
well you did the right thing mac.
on channel 10?
the device has stopped responding.
mac, can you hear me?  come in?
taylor, you surprise me.
i do not know what you are talking about!
sure you do.  sending mac out on a little recon work.  how pathetic.  problem is it seems mac blew a few fuses.  or maybe he is just a little drunk. were you partying with a robot taylor?
look we gave you what you asked for.  it checks out did not it?! what more do you want from us!
i told you not to try anything smart!  i guess you are too much of a maverick to follow a simple order!  and that is just too bad for all of you now, is not it?
look you said it does not matter to you anyway!  why do you want to kill more innocent people!  why!
mac, you really earned your wings this flight.
my...wings...
i am here to provide service to... to all our guests.  there is a high level of passenger dissatisfaction. it is my duty...to report this.
i hear you mac and i appreciate it. frankly i do not know what I would have done without you on this one.
there is a high level...of passenger 					dissatisfaction.
and i intend to correct that at once. I will tell you something mac...
oh my god, what is he doing?
he is shutting off the air!!!
what is the use...we're going to die...
do not say that!  it am not over till it is over!
if i could get to the bridge i could send the distress signal.
even if we do, it might be too late.
everyone just stay put.
wait.
i can not let you do that.
look i know what I am doing. i have experience and training in space walking.
simulated space walking.
we are going to die.
will you shut up already?
i have not quite made up my mind yet.
I will tell you what you are going to do.  you are going to stay put like taylor said.
again with the orders from you! you got a napoleon complex chief, and I am getting sick of it!
what are you going to do about it?
will you two please stop it!  i do not want to spend my final hours listening to you bitch!
I will tell you what I am going to do.
i do not know what we are facing.
i understand.
are you ready?
ready as I will ever be.
yeah.  we did it.
so we did.
you are ready for the real thing?
at this point I am ready for anything.
i tell you, something is not right here.  how do we know they are not going to use the pod for themselves?
because, taylor would not do that, that is why.
what makes you so sure?
getting drunk is no solution.
yeah, well...i forgot my morphine back in the room.
be careful, you do not want to puncture the suit.
do not worry about me.  where are we going?
explosive?
one of barnes' duds, luckily for us.  take this out of the equation right now...
taylor?
yeah?
what do you think's going to happen to us?
well, dawn, I am an optimist by nature.
yeah, but you did not answer my question.
do you want some advice?
sure.
do not worry about what will happen, just concentrate on what is happening.  you will live longer.
words to live by.
it is time we lock coordinates.
i know, i know.
so, what are we waiting for?
cool your jets...i'm doing a little damage control.
damage control!  what kind of damage? what is going on barnes!
what the hell is that?
the engines!
dawn!  dawn!
helllp!
i think we are moving.
well is not that great.  something to write home about.
i never though I would be stuck in a wine closet with warren wayne.
well get used to it, 'cause here we are, on the cruise of a lifetime.
i guess i owe you a debt of gratitude.  you saved my life.
it was no time to lose my partner. we are going to have to hurry, he is on to us.
oh my god.  what happened?
the room is filled with poison gas.  the hydraulic system must have blown.
what is that?
a schematic of the ship.  looking for a lifeline to the pods.
we do not have enough suits to get the others out.
that is why we need a safe passage. remember what you said earlier, about getting through the wall? that might just be our ticket.
take this flare.
a flare?  a flare will not do it.
no...
a little dab'll do ya. now you know how to get there, right?
why?  where are you going?
I am not going with you.
what?  what are you talking about?
there is only room on that pod for seven.  that is you and the others.  I am counting on you to get them out of there.
and what are you going to do?!
I am going to try and buy you some time.  i can get to the bridge from here.
but how are you going to escape?
do not worry about me.  there is still a chance i can issue a distress signal.
but you can not be sure!  it is suicide.  you have to come with us!
i can't!
i will once i get past the bulkhead.  good luck.
you too.
you are not helping my heart condition any, barnes!  now just what the hell are you dragging your ass for?
the others decided to get cute with me, so I am teaching them a lesson!
this ship is going down in a blaze of glory!
well blaze your ass out of there! you have completely altered your trajectory, are we linking up or not?!
do not worry about me, I am changing coordinates now.  I have come to far to be tripped up by some dudley do-right... motherfuckers!
it is getting hard to breathe...
just do not move around too much.
it is getting too cold in here.  i can not stand this anymore!
baby, take it easy.
how can you sit there with your fat stomach and tell me to take it easy!  i want to go home!  i want to be warm!  i want to get out of here!
oh warren...oh warren...take me, god take me...
oh yeah...
oh yeah...
oh sara...
anna...
anna...
well if you knew it then why did set your thrusters on before making the calculation?
i told you, i had to teach a few people a lesson!
goddamn it barnes this really steams my onions!
let's get something straight, chappy!
now i got enough air and supplies to make another complete orbit in the pod!  you are just going to have to pick me up later.
this is a major screw up on your part, goddamn it!
is that clear?
that is clear.
good.  now you will hear from me when i have the new coordinates. in the meantime do not bug me.
sheesh!  aye aye cap'n!
over and out!
idiot...
good help is hard to find...
dawn.  come in.
taylor!  where are you?
I am in the bridge.
barnes?
he is out of the equation.  talk to me.
I am about to blow the wall.
hurry.  you have to get them out of there!
how does the distress signal look?
uh, it is ok, everything's going to be ok...now I am counting on you, and whatever you do keep calm, we do not want them to panic.
I will do my best.
so what is going to happen to you?
I am staying with the ship.  I will be all right.  now hurry.
thanks for everything, taylor. will i see you again?
hopefully sooner than later.
sooner than later.
over and out.
what is happening around here!!!
there is no time to explain.  get everyone together!  we found a way to the pods!
where is taylor?
he is up on the bridge!  he is going to be ok.  now who is missing?
carlo!
he is in the bathroom.
I am going back for taylor!
are you nuts!  it is too risky!
what the hell are you doing?
we have room!  let's go!
what do you mean?  what happened!
we do not have time.  I will explain later, hurry!
jesus, come on!
they are not going to make it!
so close...
and so far.
i never thought this would happen.  no premonitions, nothing.
it did.  it is.  there is nothing we can do about that.
except write our wills.
will you marry me?
marry you?
that is right.  will you marry me?
i would, but no one can perform the ceremony.  i guess it does not matter.
it would matter to us.
in that case, i accept.
good.  in that case, i pronounce us man and wife.
right now it is about 8 of the clock at home.  people are going to work, kids are going to school...
try not to think about it.
what is it?!
i do not know.  wave to them!
