I am an addict. i can not go through a day without the stuff. theo reaches over and pours for him with a steady hand.
you are not from around here, are you?
I am from akron.
I am looking for a man.
what kind of man?
a bowler.
lane's closed big fellah, league night.
I am not here to bowl.
you drag that coconut around for your health, or do you know how to use it?
I am looking for somebody.
hey, am not i seen you on the tour?
no, pinhead, he am not here to bowl.
fazeli...i do not know no buzz fazeli.
what do you want with old man faz?
some unfinished business.
if you wanna do business in this town, there is other people around here got more weight than old faz.
you guys got something going on downstairs?
we provide some extracurricular activities for the senior citizens in the community.
basement bingo?
yeah, basement bingo.
lemme see your ball.
ah, come on, lemme see your ball.
you afraid we are going to steal it?
aagh! stop! those are my bowling fingers!
tell your little pal to let go.
breeze, give him his ball back!
where can i find buzz fazeli?
whoa, cool your maples. over the bridge, past the peter pan, last house on the dead end. theo releases sid's hand. sid drops to his knees and cradles his damaged hand.
have not seen a ball like that since '69.
it belonged to my dad.
is mr. fazeli in please?
who wants to know?  zeus!
I am a bowler.
I am sick of you people. why do not you leave him be?
oh sure. let everyone in. from now on i leave the door wide open. let the parade begin!
clam it!
buzz fazeli.
theo.
i know your face, you are an up-and-comer. you bowl on the tour.
I am not on the tour this year.
need some advice, huh.
well, mr. fazeli, the bowling congress says I am a thorn in their side.
do not worry about the congress, they are just a bunch of moralistic busy-bodies.
get that outta your mouth!
they suspended me.
i got suspended when i was young, too. i was pretty cocky in my day.
they suspended me for 100 years.
100 years!
i can appeal in five. i was hoping you could help me mr. fazeli.
what do you think i can do?
i need a sponsor to get my sanction card back. where i come from, you are the king.
sure, around here, any fat old bald guy could be king. I am nothing. it would not do any good for me to talk to the congress.  hey, you thirsty? you like orange whips?
I have never had orange whips, I am from akron.
he is the guy buzz.
he is not the guy, millie. just whip the whips.
i looked in his car. he is got pictures of you, clippings, maps.
bowlers do not go around killing other bowlers. he is only a fan, millie. I will give him some tips and an autograph and he is outta here.
you are in trouble, are not you buzz? you are doing something dangerous in that alley.
millie, i know what I am doing.
we should leave this town. i can not take this anymore. I am not going to let him kill you in my house.
remember the finals in akron in '59? you had a seven-ten split in the final frame.
yeah, against that prick vandemark.
ten thousand to one, but you pegged it. the toughest shot on the last frame.
that game was before you was born.
my mom was there. she told me about it. the 'fazeli split.'
orange whip, nectar of the bowling gods. thanks sweetie. millie turns the tray so that buzz takes the untainted whip.  theo takes the other glass.
thanks.
where did you get this ball?
it is mine.
who gave it to you?
grace skinner.
grace skinner. who is grace skinner to you?
she is my mom.
who are you? who sent you here?
I am your son. you are a hard father to find.
son?
millie, please.  i do not have a son. i think you better leave now young man. buzz gestures towards the front door.
i do not know no grace skinner.
you knew her. you married her in 1963.
you are a bullshit artist, that is what you are. you got no right to be here! theo yanks the trophy away from buzz.
i got a right. you are my father.
i am not nobody's father!
my poor baby!
you see what you did?  take your ball and get out.
99 years, 241 days,  15 hours, and 20 minutes of no bowling. alfie shuffles up to the self-serve island and begins wiping it down.
find your bowler?
yeah, but it did not go so good. he was not the man i thought he would be. theo is trying to affix the lid on his cup, but his hands are trembling, spilling some of the coffee.
my father used to say to me "never..." no, hmmm. "always..." no, no...  ah! love and hate are blood relations.
maybe i should have left the ball in the car.
he is not here.
I am sorry about zeus, millie.
this is a sign! someone is coming to take buzz away from me. i do not know if you are the guy or what, but I am not letting it happen. I am leaving him first.
i could not kill buzz. i need his help. theo helps millie load suitcases into the trunk of her car.
buzz fazeli never helps anybody but himself.
he is my father, millie.
he is no father to you.
careful with that one. he will not tell me anything, but i know there is something strange going on over at the lanes. if you ask me, I would say the old fart wants to die.
where can i find him?
the peter pan.
yeah, and make it extra muddy, i did not sleep a zee last night. sheila fills a cup. buzz lifts it to his mouth, his hands trembling.
you do not need coffee, mr. fazeli; you need a vacation. sheila catches sight of theo pulling into the parking lot. she puts a ken head earring in her right ear. buzz follows sheila's gaze.
some people will do anything for an autograph. theo enters the diner and walks over to buzz.
millie left to stay with her sister in ronkonkoma.
you know what a mixer ball is? it is like you, you come out of nowhere and upset things, scattering everything all over. buzz grumpily waves at him to sit.
what are you doing over at the lanes that is so dangerous, buzz?
you should not listen to her, she is a nervous old nellie.
she thinks someone is trying to kill you.
i could not pay someone enough to try to kill me. sheila comes over to take their orders.
buzz burger, side of 'cues. you have not introduced me to your fan.
sheila, meet...uh...  i forget the name.
theo.
theo! this is sheila kastle, my partner's daughter.
you look like you are something on the lanes.
theo's bowled on the tour.
oh, a professional man. what will you have?
what is your specialty?
whips...orange whips.
then I will have the number four with one of your finest whips.
how do you want it?  the eggs.
uh...over easy.
coming right up.
watch out for that one. she is got a great average, but she is looking for a prince. and, believe me, she is
kissed a lotta tadpoles.  listen, i been thinking about your problem. I am not the guy to sponsor you. it would be unethical. but, there is something i could do for you.  putt-putt golf.
putt-putt golf?
it is the next level, the next dimension...  ...the small ball.
the small ball.
it is going to be bigger than big. think europe. think asia. they do not have room for real golf courses in japan.
not for me. miniature golf's for pansies.
if the japanese are pansies, then pansies are my kind of people. sheila steps over to the booth with their food. the buzz burger has three holes cut in the middle to make it look like a bowling ball. buzz sees the two sleazeballs park their car and walk towards the diner.
maybe i could bowl in japan.
three whips. to go.
when you get a chance.
hey, you still here?
we are looking for buzz fazeli, seen him?
i do not know no buzz fazeli.
look sid, a buzz burger. the faz's favorite lunch. sid reaches for the plate. buzz walks over to the booth  and pulls his burger away from sid.
buzz, mr. kastle wants to talk to you.
are you guys bruddas?
hey, cut it out sid, that tickles. I am serious! you guys are related, right?
he is my dad.
look, faz, mr. kastle was not his usual charismatic self today when he told us to tell you...  what was that he said...?
i remember, sid! mr. kastle says he do not like no sticky fingers in the till.
pinhead! do not just blurt it right out.
your pop said to put these on his tab. sid gets up and jerks his thumb towards the door.
so buzz, let's skedaddle. mr. kastle is waiting. as buzz gets up, theo rises and steps between his father and the two sleazeballs.
do those two work for your dad or mine?
mine, and they never tip.
do you know where they are taking him?
yeah, babylon. buzz runs the lanes there for my dad. everybody who has anything to do with bowling in this town answers to my dad. theo splits.
what is on your mind, miles?
we have been partners a long time now, have not we buzz?
seven years.
this scam we got going here was your
brainstorm, buzz. i admit, i thought it was a rotten idea, but i put up the scratch.  and now we got a beautiful thing.
it is a beautiful thing.
a beautiful thing. and you know why buzz? you know what we got? buzz raises an eyebrow as he buttons his shirt.
and look at that; both partners go down together. kastle shoves the sculpture onto the floor, stands up, and crushes it under his heel. he goes over and puts his arm around buzz.
simple math, buzz.  two plus two does not equal three.
miles, I have always been on the square with you.
I am sure you have buzz.
wish me luck.
what the fuck is this?
what is it look like to you?
it looks like dwarf bowling.
very good, busyboy.
dwarf bowling's illegal.
what are you gonna do, call the bowling police?
heh, heh, heh.
you said it would be unethical to help me. you call dwarf bowling ethical!
i do what i gotta do to survive.
you have no right to call yourself a bowler. buzz slaps theo in the face.
I am more of a bowler than you will ever be. i deal with my own shit. i am not asking anyone to bail me out.
I am your blood.
you wish!
what makes you so sure it was me? she coulda had lotsa bowlers! theo rushes buzz and grabs his arm. the two men struggle for the pin.
do not say that about my mom!
i had a career. she wanted a little bowler of her own. sid and breeze leap into the fray, prying the two men apart. they wrestle theo against a wall, pressing his face into the tiles.
fuck you and fuck bowling.
that is a laugh. you are all strung out. you are a bowling junkie.
i do not need the stinking pro-tour.
you are dead without the pro-tour, and you know it. get him away from me. sid and breeze punch theo in the face.
here theo, it is the fazeli specialty; a seven-ten split. theo looks down the lane and sees the two pins standing.
I am not here to - i can't...
weird, comes into alleys and does not bowl.
it is not an "alley". i hate when people call it a "bowling alley", it is so common! i prefer "bowling center".
someone gonna get kacked, boss?
if i find out buzz is comin' up short on dwarf bowling, it is lights out for him and pink slips for you. sid and breeze look sideways at each other.
i came here to have a word with your dad.
what do you want with my dad?
business.
will not your father help you with that?
having a legend for a dad is not all it is cracked up to be.
your dad's one of the only nice people in this fucking town. my dad is slime. kastle walks over. theo stands up and shakes kastle's proffered hand.
so you are buzz's boy. I have been expecting you. you hurt my feelings when you did not come and see me sooner.
you know who i am?
nobody sticks a finger into a bowling ball in this town without miles kastle knowing about it. you do not mind if i have a word with theo, do you bunny? kastle takes theo by the elbow and pulls him away.
i heard you have been having a little trouble with the congress.  theo pulls his eyes off sheila. kastle walks theo past pairs of bowlers.
you might say I am at the top of their shit list.
maybe i can help you.  try a lighter ball, penelope - you will get hurt with that big ball, honey.  I have seen tapes of you bowling on the circuit. you got fazeli blood running through you. your pop was a genuine talent in his day.
what is with the bad air between you two, mr. kastle?
it is nothing, just a slight business imbalance.  how is gloria's thumb?
hello, mr.kastle.
hello, violet. how is my favorite 'bowlerina' doing?
132, 154.
you keep that up carmelita and one day you will be a champion just like mr. skinner here. what do you think, theo? think carmelita's got the stuff?
that is some pinfall. almost a 133 average. her ball's flat, she needs to work on her spin control.
that is right, did not you have a slight control problem in a recent tournament,champ?  now go take out your "big four", darling.  come on, we are making her nervous.
i get them while they are young. builds loyalty.
she hit it, mr. kastle!
four or five years when a girl like that is bowling on the pro tour for team kastle, she will pay a handsome profit on my investment.
think of this business like a big aquarium. you gotta have some sharks to eat the dirt at the bottom so the guppies can swim free at the top.
profits down there, philanthropy up here.  besides, it beats the pants off bingo.
nice set-up.
if it springs a leak, it will be because buzz is making waves.
what if he wants to get out?
he is earned an early retirement.  but enough about losers; buzz fazeli is history. lets talk about your future.  i wanna show you something.
rac. r-a-c. renovate, automate, computerize. that, my boy, is the future. one of the monitors shows a little girl bowling. her ball moves so slowly it barely tips over the first pin. kastle hits a key and the pins explode in an emphatic strike. the little girl jumps with joy.
what ever happened to just bowling?
there is a lot of competition for amusement out there. you got to adapt to survive.
i like the sport the way it is.
a guy like you could breathe some fire into bowling. you got ambition like a...like a...blowtorch. you go for what you want and anything that gets in your way - pssshht! -  shish kebabs.  maybe lady fate washed you up on my doorstep for your own good.  i think i could help you, theo.
how mr. kastle?
you need a sponsor; i have influence. i could sponsor you.
why would you help me?
i like you, theo. you bowl with soul.
junior's a problem child. he has a thing about -
sheila!
this is a vicious cycle.
i think that a motorbike is one of the last really free things that people can do.
is not this technically a scooter?
when I am on my bike i feel like a wild person.  better than any sex I have ever had.
kinda tough on the butt.
everything has it is drawbacks.
where did your brother escape from?
the mental hospital.
what does he do?
he follows me, he tries to have sex with me, and then they send him to the nut-hut for a while and then he gets out and then he follows me, he tries to have sex with me, they send him to the nut-hut for a while...
whoa.
it is a vicious cycle.
do not tell me, john.
cool!
theo. howzitgoin.
hey man, welcome to our parking lot. lemme give you some advice, if she asks you to dance, make sure her brother's not around. somebody blew out junior's pilot light, if you get my meaning.
how is that?
i was doing the lambada with her and the guy freaks, he breaks my arm, tries to kill me. i swear man, the guy thought i was a piata. if nobody else had not a been there, he would not have stopped. he woulda killed me. fuckin' guy man, just snapped. how do you like your burger?
uh...over easy.
I will tell you one thing, you will not see me around that alley with that freak on the loose. stay away from his ass - and do not play any of his fuckin' knock-knock jokes.
mind if i cut in?
no, not at all.
you and your sideburns are the talk of the party, theo.
the ladies in akron call them thigh- ticklers.
can i ask you something personal?
I would rather you didn't.
do you have a girlfriend?
not while I am in training.
do you have a boyfriend?
no. do you?
no. not at the present.
so this brother of yours is hazardous to the health of your dates?
nobody in this town really understands junior. when i went to family sessions for him i realized he was the sanest one in the family. actually, he is the only one in this whole fucking town who knows exactly who he is and what he wants.
unfortunately what he wants is you.
so, what about you?
do i want you?
we will get into that later.
theo, what would you do if you could not bowl?
i do not know. it is all i ever wanted to do.
i wanted to be a motocross champion. my folks did not really care what i did. then junior blew a fuse and i became their last hope. most girls get ballet stuffed down their throats, i got bowling. i never understood how anyone could take it so seriously. i hope I am not insulting you.
no, I am fascinated.
why were you suspended?
i used to be kind of wild. they used to call me the bad boy of bowling.
so you are hoping buzz can get you re- instated?
well, that was plan a.
what is plan b?
plan b is your dad.
what do you think my dad's going to do for you?
he said he would sponsor me.
ha! and what do you have to do for him?
nothing.
oh really? nothing? my dad does not do anything unless there is something in it for him.
he asked me to keep an eye on you for a couple of days.
what? be my body guard?  here's my body, theo. guard it. for my dad's sake. for your career. sheila starts to unbutton her bowling shirt.
sheila, please.
come on theo, what about plan c?
what is plan c?
plan c...  ...is me.
come on, junior. everyone's waiting for you, son. the beam of light catches junior's face. he is crouched inside the machine at lane six. jr. his face is cut and bleeding and his straitjacket torn and filthy.
needs lubrication. lubrication.
we are having a party for you, boy. cake and shish-k-bob, just like you love. junior cringes away from the light.
you made me hurt him!
i have someone for you to play with junior.
someone wants to play with me?
i have someone for you to play blueface with junior.
blueface! blueface is my favorite.
bowling used to be so pure, so...all- american. breeze sings along with caruso and pretends to conduct.
la da da dalala...
i hate fuckin' opera.
how could you hate opera, sid? opera has all the drama and excitement of real life - to music!
how do you know, you do not even speak latin?
you listen to the feelings, not the words.
you got an 8-track tape player on purpose, just 'cause you knew the only thing they had on 8-track was fuckin' opera.
it was a clearance.
you know, elvis bowled.
no kiddin'.
bowling was the most incorruptible sport. no megalomillionaires, no
gambling. and it was a safe place for kids, a place where the whole community could meet for some wholesome, clean fun.
sure, sid.
but not no more. now people take advantage. bowling am not what it used to be. there is something evil spreading in this sport - like a big, gigantic, puss- ridden -
- canker sore.
right, eating at the core, eating it is way out. it makes me sick!
how do you turn this thing off?
wait! that is an aria!
theo, i want you to get out of this town.
I am getting to like it here.
did that porcupine say he would get you back on the tour?
i gotta survive.
he will be a barnacle on your ass the rest of your life.
you got a better offer?
no...
i did not think so.
not for somebody who hit a man with his ball on national television.
that is right, buzz, and you know when i did it? last match, last frame. all i needed was one spare for the crown - and i get stuck with the seven-ten, the fazeli split.
you never even took the shot. you could not do it. theo moves towards buzz in a threatening manner.
i was beaten on a shot named after my own dad. the moment passes. theo turns and climbs into his car. he looks up at buzz.
look, kid, gimme a break. I am an old man.  I am runnin' on a delrin aorta. I am finished - dead from my ankles up.
i could not care less.
i do not think your new outfit suits you, theo.
really? i kinda like it.
do you talk with your mom?
it is been awhile. she did not want me looking for my dad.
my mom told me not to stay in this town.
so why do you stay?
I am a credit card junkie. i went on a binge and my dad bailed me out. now I am trapped in his easy payment plan.
i bet you get to meet a lot of eligible bowlers.
yeah, but they are all little wannabes. I am looking for a professional man.
i may not be a pro bowler, but I am no amateur man. sheila moves closer to theo.
how much would you charge me for the lips?
more than you could afford.
come on, bargain with me.
i could let them go for ten.
you professional men drive a hard bargain. I am afraid i only have five on me. sheila pulls out a 5 dollar bill.
if you want a professional man, you have to be willing to pay for him.
what are you going to do about your brother?
you are here.
what about the guy he put in the body cast?
then it is true, is not it? about...
...lane six. yes.
dad, this is ridiculous. just open it.
ssssh! now real quiet. on three. one...two...three!
i bet you did not know that you and junior have something in common, theo: junior can not bowl anymore either. is not that right junior? kastle slams the ketchup bottle down on junior's right hand. the table settings jump from the shock. junior sits impassively, his face a blank.
see! no feeling. tell theo what happened to your hand, junior.
after we eat, dad.
he stuck it in the ball return machine when he was a kid. crushed all the nerve endings. junior starts stroking the ketchup bottle with his dead hand.
it is not so bad. when I am alone, it feels like someone else. sheila grabs the bottle from junior, opens it and pours some on her shish kebab. she leans over and whispers furiously to her father.
do you have to get your hooks into every guy I am interested in?
you are just like you mother! always jealous!
that is why mom ran away, because you had to control everything!
she ran away to be with that...  that motocross champion.
i do not like to talk about it.
you are prone to violent outbursts, are not you?
it depends.
it feels good to let it out, does not it? sheila leans over and whispers furiously to her father.
you are using theo for your own deviant purposes!
look who is talking!
leave him alone!
just because your mother signed part ownership of the lanes over to you, does not mean you have a right to tell me how to run my business! i can have my lawyers take that deed away from you like that.  sheila and kastle sit up.
come on sheila, knock-knock.
who is there?
junior.
junior who?
j'you-and-your-friend do it yet?
fantastic! what talent.
you still got the touch junior.
hello mr. kastle.  junior, long time. i thought they locked you up and threw away the warden!
is it true they blacked out the whole county giving you electro-shock? junior looks from one man to the other, breathing heavily, his nostrils flaring.
hey, enough fun and games. we have work to do. come on junior. kastle heads for his car. junior gets up and follows. the two sleazeballs tarry as theo stands.
if junior thinks you are doing the bouncy- bouncy with his sister, he is going to tap dance on your spleen.
buzz has been moving the cash out in hollow bowling pins. sid and breeze throw sideways glances at each other.
no!
i want you two to pick up buzz and bring him to lane six. junior will take it from there.
you already have a partner mr. kastle. sheila walks over as the sleazeballs' car pulls out of the driveway.
i think buzz is retiring soon. in fact, i think he is retiring tonight. kastle pulls out a shiny gold credit card and holds it in front of sheila.
do not go near the bowling alley.
bowling "center"!
it would not bother you if buzz was in danger, would it?
nope, i could not care less.
I am sure you would not care if he needed your help, right?
why should i help that old fuck.
yeah, what did buzz fazeli ever do for you?
zip.
and besides, it is probably too late, anyhow.
way too late. buzz fazeli is history.  too late for what?
nothing.
too late for what, sheila?
you know how people with broken bones know when there is a storm coming?
you got any broken bones?
no, but something is going to blow in this town. i can feel it.
are you fucking with me sheila? is something gonna happen to buzz? sheila seems to be trying to tell theo, but is unable.
i can not tell you, theo.
why not?
i saw your eyes when you hit that guy with your ball on tv. thunder rumbles. theo takes sheila by the shoulders.
tell me, sheila. what are you afraid of? sheila shakes her head.
I am afraid you will hurt him.
it is junior, is not it.
i can not - i can not do it.  he is my brother.
he is my father.
these open the back door. do not let him catch you behind the machines; if he does, you are trapped. I will meet you at the bridge. theo takes the keys. sheila grabs his arm.
you do not have to do this. we could just cut out of here, go to akron,  or anywhere else.
I will be at the bridge.
knock-knock.
who is there?
who is there!
buzz fazeli.
no. i say knock-knock! you say who is there. i say who is there and then you say who who. you are not playing right.  knock-knock.
who is there?
junior!  you are supposed to say junior who! I am going to have to hurt you. theo and junior circle one another.
you should not touch her.
no, junior, you should not touch her.
nobody touches her. except me. i touch her. sheila told me you played bouncy- bouncy with her.
what did your dad tell you to do to buzz? theo scrambles up the lane on hands and knees. junior catches him, grabbing his ankles.
he told me to play blue-face with buzz. i like games.
what did you do to buzz?
you played bouncy-bouncy with sheila, so I am going to play blue-face with you.
i do not want to play.
you told junior that we did it.
it?
it. bouncy-bouncy. fucked. he tried to squeeze my fucking head off. what did you say to him? when they reach each other, they stop. sheila seems to weigh her answer.
i told him you were my boyfriend.
what the hell did you go doing that for sheila? we have not even gotten naked yet!
we would have sooner or later.
oh great! he tried to kill me! you knew he would go off if he thought i fooled around with you.
did you - kill him?
how do you get this thing down?
tell me what happened theo.
you wanted me to kill him, did not you?
if he is not dead, he will keep coming back.
he is dead sheila.
i feel sick.
you should.
are you sure he is dead?
i did not stop to take his pulse.
where are you going?
i think your brother may have already gotten to buzz. he gets into his car.
can i come with you?
i did your dirty work for you sheila, now fuck off. theo drives away leaving sheila standing alone. she watches his car recede with a thoughtful expression, then turns on her heel.
hello?
hello, mom?
theodore? where are you? are you alright?
i found dad.
he is dead, is not he.  buzz fazeli might just as well have died before you were born.
mom, you know i had to do it. i just did it a little too late.
you sure you are ok teddy? you are not bowling are you?
i gotta go. love ya mom.
did you hear about that bowler who got smeared? i saw them pull a body bag out of the alley. i heard he was kacked but good. they had to take apart the pin machine to get him out.
the pin machine?
just like junior did the last time; lane six. all's i know is it is going to be a closed coffin. my advice to you is to lay low. he puts on a pair of dark 7-eleven shades, flips up his collar and skulks away.
bowling police, step back, give him room.
nothing going on here, everybody stand back. let him through, ladies. ladies, please. as they start to move through the female throng, a little girl pops out in front of them, holding her ball.
where is junior?
he killed your stoolie embezzler father, and he is going to kill you next! sid and breeze push him towards the van as the crowd's murmur increases. kastle turns and yells over his shoulder.
sorry about your loss.
i should have pegged you guys for bowling dicks from day one.
you should probably hit the road. go home. this place could get hazardous for your health.
so, buzz was stooling for you guys.
you call it stooling, we call it cooperating. breeze looks under theo's car.
did you know you were parked in the handicap space?
kastle's daughter's been lookin' for you.
she told us you went after junior to save your old man's hide. you got some balls goin' after that psycho.
only problem is, you did not put his lights out, you just got him mad. then he took it out on poor faz, god rest his soul. theo patches out.
think he bought it?
I would buy it!
why did you come back?
when I am with you sheila, i do not even think about bowling. theo takes sheila in his arms and kisses her passionately. she stops him and looks around nervously.
if junior finds us, he will kill us both.
i killed him once, I will just have to kill him again.
you do not get two chances with junior.
at least I will die smiling.
say something, theo. give me something. a doll's legs catch fire. theo stares into sheila's eyes.
plan c. from now on it is going to be plan c. both bodies throb and grind, their sandy hands sliding over each others' sweaty skin.
the faz sure took care a her.  breeze makes a nasal grunt as he tries to suppress a snigger. sid - trying to keep a straight face - elbows him. sid and breeze approach the coffin. breeze pulls an orange whip out of a paper bag and carefully places it on the coffin lid.
nectar of the bowling gods, faz.
see ya 'round faz.
theo, buzz is dead.
i did not come this far to bury a guy that is not my dad. he owes me.
back to plan a. the vicious cycle all over again. theo lets go of sheila.
I have been trapped by miles kastle my whole life. she walks over to her scooter, and mounts it.
now he is the one who is locked up and I am the one who is free. if i got to do this alone, i might as well start now. she revs up and peals out.
sshheeiillaaa!
why is junior's watch in that coffin? something stinks around here.
your time is up, busyboy.
who identified the body?
the body was identified along proper bowling congress guidelines for processing a bowling related fatality.
I am the next of kin. i should have seen him.
after we id, we bury the body. case and casket closed.
you tried to make it look like junior trashed his place. junior's underground in that coffin you dicks put him in.
it is splitsville for you.
you faked my dad's murder. you used him! where is he! theo chases sid and breeze around their car. he catches sid and grabs the middle fingers on his right hand. sid howls.
ow! ooh! no, please! doc said I would be back on the planks in a week! show him breeze! breeze pulls a copy of "new york bowler" from his pocket. the headline reads "rub out!:bowling legend kacked by dwarfscam kingpin" with a photo of buzz fazeli.
what makes you think you know me so well that you can give me an ultimatum? huh?
who said anything about an ultimatum? you want to find your father? get a shovel and start digging. hurry up, he is probably in purgatory by now. sheila makes a pathetic attempt to speed away from theo. he moves up beside her again.
you are really pissing me off.
I am pissing you off? I am doing what i said I would do. what the hell are you doing? what about your word?
my word is good, and it will always be good. when did i ever give my word to you?
what about plan c?
fuck plan c!
your word is so good, you are never going to give it to anyone.
you think I am dumping you to get back into bowling. well who is dumping who?
I am not dumping you, I am suspending you.
sez you!
suck my dick!
you a mini-golfer?
nope.
paradise, huh? might be one of the new putt-putts off route 99. theo turns to leave.
can i get you something for the road?
you have orange whips?
orange who? not from 'round here, are ya?
no. I am from akron.
i just hold it loosely with both hands?
that is right, sugar, find the grip that is right for you. then grasp firmly. the camera weaves past a five foot pink whale with a gaping green mouth leading onto a mini-green.
grasp firmly. then what?
line up where you want it.
yeah.
now swing it out a little to the right...
like this?
no, no, that is too far. try a more gentle stroke. it is all in the stroke. go ahead, now, honey - stroke. as the camera comes around the side of the whale, we see an elderly man in a fire hydrant red sports coat and white slacks hunched over a diminutive fiftyish woman.  his back is to the camera and he is wearing a baseball cap with a plastic halo attached to it.
strokin'. here goes nothin'.
hole in one! you are the queen of stroke!
yippy!
we am not married no more.
he says that to all his wives.
the whole world thinks you are underground.
i am underground.
it could just as easily have been me in that box.
i told you to get lost. you forced yourself into this mess, so the mess accommodated you. buzz straightens out and carefully remolds the bent out of shape halo.
what about bowling?
bowling died for me years ago. besides, I am a living dead legend. I am a hero.
you are a scumbag.
so, eh, you never saw me. right?
i never saw you.
thanks, kid.  where are you goin' now?
I am goin' straight. no more short cuts. theo gets into the car. buzz leans in the open window.
listen, if straight does not work out, you come work for me.  just make sure nobody's following you. buzz's face is eerily lit by the glow of the sunset, his halo bouncing in the breeze.
i did not mean that stuff i said. i was trying to keep you out of this muddle. I am glad i did not have my tubes tied. oh, and by the way, i made a call for you before i - uh - retired. buzz takes his card and scrawl on the back with a gold pen.
you give ed klein of the american bowling congress a call.  tell him your maynard's boy. he is expecting you, and he owes me. he will getcha back in like flynn.  do not say i never gave you nothing.
see ya 'round maynard.
very professional.
i am a professional man.
lips still for sale?
you bet. for five bucks, I will even throw in the tongue.
can you change something this big?
