according to this we have completed our exploration of the entire sector.
fifty-four planets - and their gaseous atmospheric anomalies. our sensing and analytic equipment worked well.
then it is time we were heading home. three years is...
i have an energy wave from 240 degrees mark six port --
visual!
do not tell me that was any meteor shower.
negative. the subspace shockwave originated at bearing three-two- three, mark seven-five, the location is...  praxis. a klingon moon. barren of indigenous life forms but -
essential as a resource. praxis is their key energy production facility.  send to klingon high command: "this is excelsior, a federation starship traveling through beta quadrant. we have monitored a large explosion in your sector. do you require assistance?"
aye, sir.
mr. valtane, any more data?
i have confirmed the location, sir, but...
what is it?
... i cannot confirm the existence of praxis.
praxis?
what is left of it.
captain, I am getting a message from klingon high command.
onscreen.
an incident?
do we report this, sir?
are you kidding?  send to starfleet command...
where is mr. sulu?
captain sulu... on assignment... anyone seen spock?
me?
we have volunteered to rendezvous with the klingon ship that is bringing chancellor gorkon here, and escort him safely through federation space.
i have personally vouched for you in this matter, captain.
you have personally -
we volunteered?
there is an old vulcan proverb: only nixon could go to china.
how could you vouch for me? that's...  ... arrogant presumption -
i was asked by my father to open neg-
i know your father's the vulcan ambassador for heaven's sake, but you know how i feel about this: they are animals.
jim, there is an historic opportunity here -
do not trust them. do not believe them -
they are dying.
let them die.
as you were. lieutenant...?
saavik, sir. we were told you would need a helmsman -  ... so i volunteered.
lieutenant, i am pleased to see you.  the lieutenant is the first vulcan to be graduated at the top of her class as the academy.
congratulations, lieutenant. that must make you very proud...
control tower, reading, sir.
control, this is enterprise requesting permission to depart.
aft thrusters -
thank you. lieutenant, one quarter impulse power...
captain, may i remind you that regulations specify thrusters only while in space dock?
uh, jim...
you heard the order, lieutenant.
aye, sir.
plot a course for kronos, lieutenant.
kronos, sir?
I am still in the chair, lieutenant.
aye, sir.
sorry -
come on, saavik, you could knock -
we are almost at the rendezvous - i thought you would want to know...
right -
i gather you are not enthusiastic about the assignment... i do not think many on board are.
you piloted well out of spacedock, lieutenant -
i always wanted to try that.
only do not try putting words in my mouth.
you have done well, saavik. as your sponsor at the academy i have followed your career with... satisfaction. and as a vulcan.
sir, i speak to you as a kindred intellect. do you not recognize that a turning point has been reached in the affairs of the federation?
i am not certain such speculations are included among your duties, lieutenant.
you must have faith.
faith...?
that the universe will unfold as it should.
never been this close.
the chancellor is undoubtedly awaiting our signal.
uhura, hailing frequencies. right standard rudder, bring us alongside...
right standard rudder, z plus five degrees...
channel open, captain.
this is the starship enterprise, captain james kirk commanding.
this is kronos one. i am chancellor gorkon.
chancellor. we have been ordered to escort you through federation space to your meeting place on earth.
thank you, captain.
uh, would you and your party care to dine this evening aboard enterprise with my officers as guests of the united federation of planets?
we would be delighted to accept your gracious invitation.
we will make arrangements to have you beamed aboard at 1930 hours.
i shall look forward to it.
i hope you are happy.
captain.
maybe if their particles just got a wee bit mixed...
energize...
chancellor, may i present commander spock, whom i believe you know, dr. leonard mccoy, chief medical officer, montgomery scott, chief engineer...
commander, face to face at last.. you have my thanks..
I have always wanted to meet you, captain.
I am not sure how to take that.
your research laboratory is most impressive...
starfleet's been charting and cataloging planetary atmospheres. all vessels are equipped with chemical analytic sensors...
this cannot be easy for you, captain...  i would feel awkward if i had to give you a tour of our vessel...
would you care to go topside?
very much.
captain, you are not going to show them the bridge??
full diplomatic courtesy, mr. chekov...
"to be or not to be, that is the question" which preoccupies our people, captain kirk. we need breathing room...
i beg your pardon?
they are naturally wary, ma'am. we have been at war a long time.
how do both sides overcome ingrained prejudice?
perhaps with a few small steps at a time. like this one.
and perhaps with a large step or two. like a peace treaty.
i believe the captain feels that starfleet's mission has always been one of peace -
far be it for me to dispute my first officer. starfleet has always -
we are explorers not diplomats!
starfleet's killed an awful lot of natural phenomena in the name of "exploration"...
thank you, captain kirk. the evening has been most... edifying.
we must do this again soon.
i do not believe our own conduct will distinguish us in the annals of diplomacy...
I am going to sleep it off. let me know if there is some other way we can screw up tonight.
what is it?
i am uncertain.
spock, I am really tired...
we are reading an enormous amount of neutron radiation.
where?
curiously it appears to emanate from us.
from enterprise?
saavik, you know anything about a neutron energy surge?
sir?
mr. chekov, anything unusual?
just the size of my head -
i know what you mean...
what the -
we have fired on the chancellor's ship -
torpedo room--?
uhura, monitor!
direct hit -
confirmed, captain!
we have not fired -
according to the data bank, we have - twice...
they are preparing to fire.
shields up, captain --?
captain, our shields -- !
uhura, signal our surrender.
captain --
we surrender.
this is enterprise. we surrender. repeat  enterprise surrenders --
captain, if they fire at us with our shields down --
torpedo bay! did we fire those torpedoes?
stand down your weapons.
captain, if --
stand down, mr. scott. all stop. that is an order.
aye, sir.
what the hell's going on?
i wish i knew. uhura?
it is pretty chaotic over there. there is been some weapons fire and a lot of shouting...
I am going aboard. spock, you have the conn.
i am responsible for involving you in this. i will go.
I am going. you are going to be responsible for getting me out of this. meantime we are not going to be the instigators of a full-scale war on the eve of universal peace.
perhaps you are right.
good luck, captain.
I am going too. they may need a doctor.
my god, what happened here?
you feign ignorance?
what happened?
you crippled our gravitational field with a direst torpedo hit, and two starfleet crewmen beamed aboard in magnetic boots and did this! we have witnesses!
he is a doctor!
how can i trust --
are you carrying a surgeon?
we were until your torpedoes!
then let me help!
sweet jesus...! he is lost a lot of whatever this stuff is...
can you - ?
jim, i do not even know his anatomy.
no!
chancellor gorkon, can you hear me? chancellor...?
under article 184 of interstellar law, i place you both under arrest. you are charged with assassinating the chancellor of the high council.
he just tried to save him!
take them away.
i assume command of this ship as of  0130 hours. uhura, send to starfleet hq. explain precisely what has taken place, and request instructions.
yes, sir.
but we can not allow them to be taken back to kronos as prisoners.
what do you suggest, lieutenant? opening fire will not retrieve the captain; and an armed engagement was precisely what he wished to avoid.
at least we must keep track of where they are taken, sir. i -
I have already addressed that question, mr. scott. we will e able to follow the captain's movements.
how did you - ?
in the meantime we must endeavor to piece together what happened here tonight. according to our data banks, this ship fired those torpedoes.
no way!
mr. scott, you forget yourself. please accompany me.
mr. president.
admiral donald...bill...
mr. president we cannot allow federation citizens to be abducted.
at present I am awaiting a full report from enterprise. pending that i am constrained to observe interstellar law.
I would prefer not to be the president to push the button if i can avoid it.
the longer we wait, the less accessible the hostages will be, mr. president.
I will bear it in mind, admiral. i think that is all.
trouble?
we have been ordered to -
in nineteenth century france, workers who felt their livelihood threatened by machines, flung their wooden shoes - called sabots - into the gears to stop them. hence the word sabotage.
we are experiencing a technical malfunction. all backup systems inoperative.
it is as i said, mr. spock: inventory still registers every torpedo.
yet the data banks insist we fired: twice. one computer is lying.
a computer canna lie, sir.
i think  not.
you can check the torpedoes visually, if you like -
we will have to check every one of them, mr. scott.
that could take hours!
nevertheless.
and if they are still in place?
then someone forged a data bank entry.
her own father...?
such things have happened before, sir.
they do not place the same value on life that we do, spock - you know that... take my word: she did not shed one bloody tear...
that is hardly conclusive, mr. scott, as klingons have no tear ducts.
any reply from starfleet to our dispatch, lieutenant.
not as yet, sir.
curious. you have not been assisting commander uhura with her radio transmissions, have you, lt?
commander uhura has been experiencing technical difficulties sir.
very well. for twenty-four hours we will agree that this conversation did not take place.
a lie?
an omission. after that -
twenty-four hours from now we will not have a clue where the captain is.
i know precisely where he will be.
what?
is not it a fact that you served romulan ale, a beverage illegal in the federation because of its overwhelming potency?
the drink was served...
and you still maintain your ship did not fire on kronos one? would you have known if she had? come now, captain. the record clearly there were no other ships in the sector.
there... were no other ships in the sector.
did you have occasion to refer to your ship's data banks during that night?
i checked the data banks, yes.
and what did they tell you?
that we fired two photon torpedoes. but -
doctor mccoy, what is your current medical status?
aside from a touch of arthritis, I would say pretty good.
for 27 years i have been ship's surgeon and later chief medical officer aboard the uss enterprise. in three months I am due to stand down.
stand...?
retire.
ah. i believe you also consumed romulan ale at the officers' mess on the night of question, doctor?
was chancellor gorkon alive when you first examined him?
barely.
have you saved patients as "barely" alive as he was?
i did not have the knowledge of klingon anatomy i needed.
you say you are due for retirement. may i ask: do your hands shake?
i was nervous -
you were incompetent! - whether deliberately or as a result of age combined with drink this court will determine.
i tried to save him! i was desperate to save him! he was the last best hope in the universe for real peace.
the chancellor herself will testify that the defendant's hands shook.
and now we come to the architect of this tragic affair, captain james tiberius kirk. i put it to you, captain, that you were seeking revenge for the death of your son.
that is not true...!
that, either as an instrument of federation policy or acting on your own drunken initiative, you and your fellow conspirators crippled kronos one and cold-bloodedly assassinated the chancellor of the high council. then you and doctor mccoy went aboard to make certain the job was complete.
are those your words?
yes.
spoken by you?
yes...
louder, please. we cannot hear you.
those words were spoken by me.
send to commander enterprise: "we stand ready to assist you. captain sulu, uss excelsior." attach our co-ordinates.
is that wise, sir? i mean, given their situation -  aye, sir.
sulu's giving us his position and telling us he is standing by...
he is placing himself in a most awkward position...
you were demoted...
yes.
for insubordination.
i have on occasion disobeyed orders.
and you were obeying or disobeying orders the night you arranged the assassination of chancellor gorkon?
you deny enterprise fired on kronos one?
well, i -
you deny that your men beamed aboard kronos one and shot the chancellor?
i cannot confirm or deny actions which i did not witness.
captain kirk, are you aware that under federation law, the captain of a starship is considered responsible for the actions of his men?
i am.
so if it should prove members of your crew did in fact carry out such an assassination - ?
as captain i am responsible for the conduct of the crew under my command.
your honors, the state rests.
an ancestor of mine maintained that if you eliminate the impossible whatever remains - however improbable - must be the truth.
what exactly does that mean?
it means that if we cannot have fired those torpedoes then someone else did.
they dinna fire on themselves. and there were no other ships present.
there was an enormous neutron energy surge.
not from us!
too far off. very near us. perhaps... underneath us...
if another ship had been beneath us the klingons would have seen her!
would they?
a bird of prey canna fire when she is cloaked!
this one can.
they you are talking about a dreadful new engine of destruction, mr. spock.
i believe i am.
and they would be right. we have no evidence - just a theory that happens to fit the facts...
even assuming you are correct, mr. spock, why would they fire on their own president?
i want this ship searched from bow to stern. lieutenant saavik, you are in charge. start with the transporter room and work your way outwards...
you are forgetting something.  the data banks say we fired. if we did, the killers are here; if we didn't, whoever altered the data banks is here. either way, what we are searching for is here...
what are we searching for, mr. spock?
you tell them, lieutenant.
he wants your obedience to the brotherhood of aliens.
he is got it.
and your coat.
fraid not. it would not fit him, anyway.
krandog aranty.
thanks...
what is the brotherhood of aliens?
how did you know...?
there is a reward for your death.
figures.
we have been set up all along.
we do not get many presidential assassins.
we did not kill gorkon.
of course not. anyway, somebody up there wants you out of the way.
i do not believe we can get more out of the way than this.
they will make it look like an accident...
what are you in for, if you do not mind me asking?
i do not mind. smuggling. guilty. i come from arc. smuggling is an ancient and respected trade there.
how much time's left of your sentence?
do not you know? everyone on rura penthe is here for life.
any progress?
we have got a crew of three hundred turning their own quarters inside out,  but the killers may be among them. surely they have disposed of these boots by now. would not it have been logical to leave them on gorkon's ship?
even logic must give way to physics. gravity had not been restored by the time they escaped. without their boots they would not have stayed on the klingon transporter pads.
suppose when they returned they threw the boots into the garbage?
I am having the garbage searched. if my surmise is correct these boots will cling to the killers' necks like tiberian bats. they could not make their escape without them; nor can they simply throw them out a window for all to see; no - they are here. somewhere.
I have pulled out my - uh wooden shoe and starfleet is screaming for us to return to port.
mr. scott, any progress on repairing our warp drive?
- could take weeks, sir.
thank you, mr. scott. we were to return to spacedock, the killers would surely manage to dispose of their incriminating footwear.
a lie?
an error.
you understand that we have lost all contact with captain kirk...?
at present, he is surrounded by a magnetic shield. if my calculations are correct, he should be deep into his escape planning by this time.
they will respect him now...
that is a comfort...
that is not his knee.  not everybody keeps their genitals in the same place, captain.
anything else you want to tell me?
bones, why do not you see what you can do? let them know we are not holding a grudge.
suppose he is holding a grudge?
when whoever it is makes their move, you will not be here to ask if he is the one.
there is got to be a way out of this place...
sorry to wake you, sir, but starfleet urgently requests any data we may have on the whereabouts of enterprise.
what?
apparently they are refusing to acknowledge signal to return to spacedock, sir.
signal starfleet that... we have no idea location of enterprise.
sir?
you having hearing problems, mister?
no, sir.
three months till retirement. what a way to finish.
we are not finished.
speak for yourself. one day... one night...
- kobayashi maru...
bones, are you afraid of the future?
that was the general idea i intended to convey.
i did not mean this future.
are we playing multiple choice?
some people are afraid of the future; of what might happen;  i was frightened, really frightened.
specifically of...?
no more neutral zone. i was used to hating klingons... that is why i failed in our assignment.  it never even occurred to me to take gorkon at his word. spock was right.
well, do not be too hard on yourself - we all felt exactly the same -
uh uh. somebody felt much worse. and I am starting to understand why.
well, if you have got any bright ideas, now's the time to -
listen. no one has ever escaped from rura penthe.
except us.
it is possible.
i know how to get outside the shield.
where do we come in?
getting outside the shield is easy. after that it is up to you to get us off the surface before we freeze. can you?
possibly.
i can not make it alone. you are the likeliest candidate to come to this god-forsaken place in months.
candidate for what?
what is it with you, anyway?
still think we are finished?
more than ever.
klingon blood.
they must have walked through it when it was floating and tracked it back here.
this is the first evidence that corroborates our theory.
now we go to starfleet?
now we expand our search to include uniforms.
all uniforms?
what kind of creature is this? last night you two were spooning -
do not remind me.
they are outside the beaming shield. mr. scott, start your engines.
aye, aye, sir.
mr. spock, rura penthe's deep in klingon territory. if we are discovered...
quite right, mr. chekov. what is now required is a feat of linguistic legerdemain - and a degree of intrepidity. before the captain and doctor mccoy freeze to death.
jim, leave me - I am finished...
no way.  you see this?
it is the viridium patch spock slapped on my back right before we went aboard gorkon's ship.
that cunning little vulcan...
once we are beyond the shield they should be able to pick it up two sectors away.
if they are even looking for us...
spock's looking for us...
I have heard of chameloids - "shapeshifters" - i thought you were mythical.
give a girl a chance, captain.
it takes a lot of effort.
i do not wonder. stop me if I am wrong but do we really have any way of knowing if this is the real you?
i thought i would assume a pleasing shape.  we are outside the shield. now it is your turn, kirk.
are you crazy?
she did not need our help getting anywhere... where did she get these convenient clothes? and do not tell me that flare is standard prison issue...
an accident was not good enough...
good enough for one - two would look suspicious... killed while attempting escape... now that is convincing for both.
your friends are late...
they will be here...
is not it about time you became something else?
i like it here...
what took you so long?
kill him! he is the one!!
not me, idiot - him!
damned clever if you ask me...
killed trying to escape - it is a classic...
captain...
he was just about to explain the whole damn -
absolutely not!
come on...
the klingons have a new weapon: a bird of prey that can fire while cloaked. she torpedoed gorkon's ship.
so, that is it..
get close enough to a man and you can kill him on "stun" without setting off the alarm - of course you can not get rid of the body...
first rule of assassination: always kill the assassins.
if you are logical.
i do not want to.
i believe you. please...
i believe the operation is over.
the charge is murder.
you must have cursed yourself, for having programmed our data banks, lieutenant. only they revealed something wrong aboard enterprise.
she programmed the torpedo hits?
but it was when you tried to persuade me the captain was guilty that i should have understood.
you can not prove any of this...
perhaps neither of us was hearing very well that night, lieutenant. there were things i tried to tell you too - about having faith.
you have betrayed the federation - all of you.
who is "us?"
i will not allow starfleet to be dismantled over some klingon promises.
starfleet will be around long enough for me to convene a court martial on this ship, lieutenant. win, lose or draw it will be on your record.
from starfleet?
who else?
gorkon's own man??
who else?
this is incredible -
who else...?
the peace conference.
what peace conference?
azetbur has agreed to meet the federation at a undisclosed location to continue her father's work... the conspirators obviously intend to try again...
we can send a message to starfleet command -
i do not think so. enterprise has disobeyed orders and harbors two escaped convicts. admiral donald will make certain all your ship-to- shore transmissions are jammed.
where is the conference?
she is only a cog in the wheel - no way she knows that.
I have been dead before. uhura, raise excelsior. she ought to have the co-ordinates.
why would they give them to us?
the commander is an old friend of yours.
this is captain sulu, uss excelsior.
sulu!
standing by, captain kirk.
you understand that by even talking to us, you are violating regulations, captain.
I am sorry, captain - your message is breaking up.
bless you, sulu.  where is the peace conference? they are going to attempt another assassination.
the conference is at camp khitomer, near the romulan border. I am sending the exact coordinates on a coded frequency.
I am afraid we may need more than that. there is a bird of prey on the lookout for us. and she can fire while she is cloaked.
surely not.
I am telling you. hang on.  how many of those things are there? come on, lieutenant, you are charged with murder...
just the prototype.
you hear that?
I am getting underway now. but you should know, I am in alpha quadrant. the chances of my reaching the conference in time are slim.
when does this conference start?
according to my information, today.
thank you, captain sulu.
do not mention it, captain kirk.
are you dining on worms?
you were right: it was arrogant presumption that got us into this situation. you might have died.
the night is young. anyway, it was logical.  you know, you are a great one for logic. I am a great one for  rushing in where angels fear to tread. we are both extremists. reality is probably somewhere in between us.
i was blind. i could not see past the death of my son. i could not trust.
i too was blind. i knew about her - and i did nothing. i trusted too much.
you could not have known she was listening the night i dictated that entry into my log. you were proud of her achievements as a vulcan.
i was prejuduced by those achievements.
gorkon had to die before i understood how prejudiced i was...
can we two have grown so old and inflexible that we have outlived our usefulness?  would that constitute a joke?
someone said the difference between comic and cosmic is the letter "s." you have not outlived your usefulness - to me. and you are not responsible just because she is also vulcan -
i should have been -
not for the actions of another. no one is responsible for any actions but his own. human beings -
but i am not human. i am only -
spock, you want to know something?
captain, when we get to camp khitomer, how will we defend ourselves? i mean, if this new bird of prey can fire while she is invisible...?
now there is a poser.
close enough to beam down?
not yet... section 4236...
she is here - somewhere.
but if she is cloaked...
then all we have got is a neutron radiation surge - and by the time we are close enough to record it, we are ashes...
captain, perhaps we are going about this the wrong way; our job is to get to the conference; her job will be to stop us.
make ourselves a target?
shields. battle stations.
shields up. battle stations.
mr. chekov, take us forward, thrusters only, one half impulse power...
aye, sir; thrusters...
uhura?
nothing, captain. if they are here, they are rigger for silent running.
this is fun...
captain, shall we attempt to return fire?
what is she waiting for?
probably trying to figure out why we are reversing, wondering if we detect her.
captain, we can not see her, but she gives off heat...
not from a distance. she will not show up on any type of scan.
too bad we can not smell her.
in space, no one can hear you sweat.
i do not think starfleet could have envisioned our current predicament.
maybe we should write them a letter?
under impulse power she expends fuel like any other ship. we call it "plasma" - i do not know the klingon name for it, but by any name it is merely ionized gas.
well, what about all that atmospheric equipment we are carrying to catalogue gaseous anomalies?
I am going to perform surgery on a torpedo - you never know...
you may need assistance, doctor...
fascinating...
mr. chekov, slow down. take us forward, thrusters only, one quarter impulse power.
aye, sir; thrusters...
bet you wish you would stood in bed...
vulcans sleep lying down...
spock, that was actually funny.
we do sleep lying down.
calm yourself, doctor, the operation is almost complete...
thank you, nurse. jim, she is ready! lock and load!
pity they are retiring us just as i was starting to understand you, spock...
we were beginning to hit our stride together, doctor...
but we have not run out of history just yet.  your father quoted hamlet: he called the future - "the undiscovered country"...
i always assumed hamlet meant death.
gorkon thought the undiscovered country might mean something else - another kin of life. people can be very frightened of change. i know i was.
they might as well arrest me, too; i felt like lieutenant saavik.
but you did not join a conspiracy.
they do not arrest people for having feelings.
if they did we would all have to turn ourselves in. how can we rely on them?
the only way to find out if a man's trustworthy...
... is to trust him.
time we got underway ourselves, gentlemen.  once again, we have saved civilization as we know it.
and the good news is they are not going to prosecute.
to be -
or not to be -
that is the question -
course heading, captain?
second star to the right - and straight on till morning...
