i notice dr. crusher laughing along with the rest of you. as most of you know, the doctor will also soon be leaving the enterprise, to assume command of starfleet medical. again, I am forced to ask, beverly, have you considered what you are doing to little ole me?! I will probably get some old battle-axe of a doctor who will tell me to eat my vegetables and put me on report if i dont show up for my physical on time!
it will serve you right.
sort of like losing a son and gaining an empath, is not it?
please, beverly, this is hard enough.
if you start tearing up i promise to beam you out. level one medical emergency.  theres no crying in starfleet.
really, captain, it was a lovely toast.
the least i could do for you, deanna.  besides, you know me... im a talking head.
and you need not worry. I will brief your new counselor on everything she needs to know.
the hell you will. you know too much about me as it is ... now you promised there are no speeches during the ceremony on betazed.
may i have this dance?
with pleasure, captain.
so... to happy endings.
to happy endings.
sir.  i noticed an interesting confluence of emotion at the wedding. i am familiar with the human concept of tears through laughter and its inverse, laughter through tears, but i could not help wondering about the human capacity for expressing both pleasure and sadness simultaneously.
i understand why it would seem confusing. certain human rituals... like weddings, birthdays or funerals evoke strong and very complex emotions. these rites carry great weight with us because they denote the passage of time.
and you were particularly aware of this feeling because commander riker will be leaving to assume command of the titan?
will and deanna joining the titan. dr. crusher going to starfleet medical...
and this makes you "sad"?
well. i suppose it does a bit. I am very happy for them, of course, but I am going to miss them. the ship will seem... incomplete without them.
that is because you have a familiarity with them. you can predict specific reactions and behavior and are comfortable in that knowledge.
yes. and, frankly, i envy them as well. they have made important choices; they are going to have great challenges ahead of them. new worlds to conquer...
the choices i made have led me here as well. this is the only home i have ever known. i cannot foresee a reason for leaving.
you never know what is over the horizon, data. before too long you will be offered a command of your own.
if i were... i believe my memory engrams would sense the absence of your specific reactions and behavior. i would "miss you."
now, you make a toast.
to new worlds...
new worlds. yes data, brave new worlds...
join us, commanders.  now what is the disposition of the fleet?
they are holding position.
and?
they will obey, praetor.
it is imperative we retain their allegiance or our great mission will be strangled before it can truly draw breath.
how many warbirds will you need?
none.
praetor. you have the whole fleet at your disposal. they supported the coup, they will follow you.
the scimitar will serve my needs.
but surely...
i came this far alone ...
are we prepared?
yes, praetor.
i will not do it.
wont do what, mister worf?
captain. i think it is inappropriate for a starfleet officer to appear...  naked.
come now, a big, strapping fellow like you? what are you afraid of?
I am picking up an unusual electromagnetic signature from the kolarin system.
what sort of signature?
it is very faint but I have isolated it to the third planet in the kolarin system.
what do we know about the planet?
uncharted. we will have to get closer for a more detailed scan.
theories?
since positronic signatures have only been known to emanate from androids such as myself, it is logical to theorize that there is an android such as myself on kolarus iii.
how many of you did dr. soong make?
i thought only me, myself and lore.
diverting to the kolarin system takes us awfully close to the romulan neutral zone.
still well on our side...
i think it is worth a look. do not worry, number one, we will get you to betazed with time to spare.
thank you, sir...
where we will all honor the betazoid traditions. no cold feet, or any other parts of our anatomy. now, if youll excuse me.  ill be in the gym.
i read six distinct positronic signatures, spread out over a few kilometers on the surface.
what do we know about the population?
isolated pockets of humanoids. it appears to be a pre-warp civilization at an early stage of industrial development.
captain, i do not recommend transporting, that ion storm does not look very neighborly. -it could head this way with- out much warning .
captain, i hope i do not have to remind you --
i appreciate your concern, number one, but I have been itching to try out the argo.
sir --
captain's prerogative, will. there is no foreseeable danger... and your wife would never forgive me if anything happened to you.
the closest signature is two kilometers to the west... that direction, sir.
thank you, data.  let's see what she can do.
it appears to be...  ... an arm.
why is it moving?
like me, it has been designed with modular power sources.
the final signature is approx- imately 300 meters up that incline.
mister worf, accompany data please.
to find the head, sir?
if you do not mind.
it is you.
the resemblance is... striking.
why am i looking at me?
you are not looking at your- self. you are looking at me.
you do not look like me.
no.
i would like to pick you up now. may i do that?
if you would not mind.
thank you.
he is very observant.
i can see that.
you have a red shirt.
this is not an appropriate time for a conversation.
why?
because the captain has to concentrate on piloting the vehicle.
why?
data!
sorry, sir.
well, he seems to have the same internal mechanics as data but not as much positronic develop- ment.  the neural pathways are not nearly as sophisticated. id say he is a prototype. something dr. soong created before data .
do you have a name, sir?
can you tell me how you came to be on the planet where we found you?
i was taken from my homeworld by people called the "pakjeds." they are fat. they traded me to a ship belonging to the "bolians." the "bolians" are blue. they put me in a seat and asked me questions. then they were attacked by another ship...
fuzzy face is gone.
yes, please continue.
i was in space for a long time. then a ship belonging to the talosians" picked me up. they asked me where i came from. i told them people called the pakleds" took me from my homeworld. they are fat
do you know who i am?
you are me.
no. my name is data... i am your brother.
well, that sounds relaxing too.
it is... invigorating.
so theyve got him up and running.
he is a very unusual android.
runs in the family.
counselor.
do you have a moment, sir?
of course, sit down.
it is about data  I have watched him with the b-9 and I am troubled. data's desire for a "family" is very strong. I am afraid he may be investing too much in the b-9.
you are speaking of emotional investment?
the b-9 is like a slow child, sir. and data, in his own way, has assumed the position of a parent or guardian. I am afraid he has expectations based on his own experiences. he will be disappointed when the bi-9 cannot meet those expectations.
as much as we care for him, deanna... we have to remember that data is not capable of disappointment.
i do not believe that, sir. weve shared many disappointing journeys.
I am going to miss you.
and i you.
captain, you have an alpha priority communication from starfleet command.
acknowledged ...  ...i'll talk to data.
admiral janeway. good to see you.

with or without the rest of the fleet?
a diplomatic mission. we have been invited, believe it or not. seems there is been some kind of internal political shakeup. the new praetor, someone called shinzon, has requested a federation envoy.
new praetor?
there is more... as always. he is reman.
believe me, we do not under- stand it either. you are the closest ship so i want you to high tail it over there and hear what he has to say. get the lay of the land, if the empire becomes unstable, it could mean trouble for the entire quadrant.
understood.

not with the romulans.

just lucky, admiral.
let's hope that luck holds. janeway out.
cannon fodder.
then how did a reman get to be praetor? i do not get it.
we have to assume he had romulan collaborators.
a coup d'etat?
the praetor's power has always been the romulan fleet. they must be behind him.
starfleet intelligence was only able to provide a partial account of his military record. we can infer he is relatively young and a capablecommander. he fought seventeen major engagements in the war. all successful. beyond that, we know nothing.
well... it seems we are truly sailing into the unknown. keep at it. anything you can give me would be appreciated. dismissed.
at present he serves no useful function. dr. soong created us to become active and useful members of society. i do not believe he would have wanted the b-9 to live out his life in his present state.
i can not believe the captain went along with a memory download.
captain picard agrees that the b-9 was probably designed with the same self-actualization parameters as myself. if my memory engrams are successfully integrated into his positronic matrix, he should have all my abilities.
he would have all your memories too. you feel comfortable with that?
i feel nothing, geordi. it is my belief that with my memory engrams he will be able to function as a more complete individual.
an individual more like you, you mean.
yes.
maybe he is not supposed to be like you. maybe he is supposed to be just like he is.
do you know where you are?
i am in a room with lights.
can you remember our father?
no.
do you know the name of the captain of this vessel?
no.
is that your final answer?
what purpose does this serve?
it seems to be a redundant memory port.  maybe it is for provisional memory storage in case his neural pathways overload?
dr. soong must have found it unnecessary in later versions.
it is possible the extra memory port is interfering with the engram processing. mind if i keep him here and run some diagnostics?
no, i do not mind.
but i believe he will prove incapable of performing higher functions.
do not give up hope, data. i know, i know, you are not capable of hope.
i am not.
why do not they answer our hails?
it is an old psychological strategy, number one. to put him in a position of dominance and make us uneasy.
it is working.
counselor?
sir, i recommend we raise shields.
not yet, mister worf.
captain, with all due respect to diplomatic protocols  -- the federation council's not sitting out here, we are.
patience. diplomacy is a very exacting occupation. we can wait.
my god...
should i raise shields?
no!
captain!
tactical analysis, mister worf.
fifty-two disruptor banks, twenty-seven photon torpedo bays, primary and secondary phased shields.
she is not out for a pleasure cruise.
she is a predator.
we are being hailed.
on screen.
enterprise. we are the reman warbird scimitar.
praetor shinzon, I am pleased to...
i am not shinzon. i am his viceroy. we are sending transport coordinates.
not very chatty.
away team. transporter room four.
i hope you will forgive the darkness... we are not comfortable in the light.
praetor shinzon?
and you are not as we imagined you.
no?
praetor?
I have never met a human woman.
I am only half human.
deanna troi of betazed. empathic and telepathic abilities, ship's counselor. all of this i knew... but i did not know you were so beautiful.
i am, commander riker...  may i touch your hair?
praetor, we have come to romulus on a matter we were -- assured was of great importance. if you have anything to say to us as representatives of the federation, i suggest you do so now.
on the world i come from there is no light. no sun. beauty is not important. i see now there is a world elsewhere.
praetor shinzon. were not here to discuss your lack of a social life.
yes, I am sorry, captain.  there is so much we have to talk about.
i would be interested to know what we are talking about.
unity, captain! tearing down the walls between us to recognize we are one people. federation and romulan. human and vulcan and klingon and reman. I am speaking of the thing that makes us the same. we want peace.
i want to end the centuries of mistrust. i want to be your ally, not your enemy. as a first step i propose we eliminate the neutral zone and begin a free and open exchange of goods and ideas.
and the senate supports you?
i have dissolved the senate.
right now, youre thinking this all sounds too good to be true?
yes.
and you are wondering why the scimitar is so well armed. is this the ship of a peacemaker? or a predator?.
but you are also thinking the chance for peace is too promising to ignore. above allyou're trying to decide if you can trust me.
yes.
then perhaps the time has come to add some illumination to our discussion. computer, raise lighting four levels.
no one knew what to do. finally i was taken to a doctor who had some experience with terran illnesses and i was finally diagnosed with shalaft's syndrome. do you know of it, captain?
you know i do.
we need to talk, just you and i.
come to dinner on romulus tomorrow. just the two of us. or just the one of us.
you know i need to verify this.
i know.
when was he... created?
about twenty-five years ago. they probably used a hair follicle or skin cell.
i think a skin cells the more likely of the two.
i would say he is been trained to resist telepathy. what i could sense of his emotions were erratic, very hard to follow.
is he sincere about wanting peace?
i do not know.
sir, the strongest sense i had was that he is more than urious about you. he very much wants to know you.  the same way you want to know him.
how could i not?
captain, do not assume he is anything like you are. you should resist the urge to think you know him.
i not only know him, deanna, i am him.. and he is me!
imzadi. this is so good.
no!
he can never know you as i know you... he can never touch you as i touch you.
this is not real.
can you feel my hands... are they real? can you feel my lips, my loins?
I will always be with you now. now and forever.
you sick bastard!
then i do not understand the reason for the delay!
you do not have to understand.
and bringing the enterprise here?! what possible purpose could that serve?
i have a purpose.
then perhaps you will enlight- en us?
silence, romulan!
you must learn patience, commander. do you know where i learned it? in the dilithium mines of remus. spend eighteen hours every day under the ash of a romulan guards whip and you will soon understand patience.
praetor.
now go. i have some personal business.
and when i was ready they were going to replace you with me, an exact biological duplicate. put a romulan agent at the heart of starfleet to.influence your command structure. it was a bold plan.
what happened?
as happens so frequently here on romulus, a new government came to power. they decided to abandon the plan -- frankly, i think they were afraid I would be discovered and it would lead to war. they were not ready for that.
romulan ale -- I am surprised. i can not stand it.
you will acquire a taste for it.
it is not quite the face you remember.
not quite. i envy the hair- line.
a lifetime of violence will do that. my nose was broken four times. and my jaw... but so much is the same. the eyes, you recognize the eyes.
yes. the eyes have it.
our eyes reflect our lives, do not they? yours are so confident.
how did you end up on remus?
they sent me there to die. how could a mere human survive the dilithium mines? it was...  i was a slave. and a monster. the only thing the romulan guards hated more than the remans was me. but one man took pity on me: the man who became my viceroy. he taught me how to survive. and in that dark place, where there was nothing of myself, i found my reman brothers. they showed me the only kindness i ever knew.
for thousands of years the romulan senate has met in this chamber and dictated the fate of its sister-planet... but the time has come for us to live as equals.
you are doing this to liberate the remans?
no race should be a slave to another.
you do not trust me.
i have no reason to.
of course you do. if you had lived my life and experienced the suffering of my people... youd be sitting where i am now. at least i hope you would.
and if you had lived my life you would understand that there is a great respons- ibility in representing the federation. i can not let my personal feelings unduly influence my decisions.
all i have is my personal feelings.  i was not raised with the ideals of the federation. but I am trying to understand them now. to live up to them. to live up to you.
i want to know  where i come from. the remans gave me a future. you can tell me about my past.
there is so much, and so much of it is dull...
were we always explorers?
no. i was the first picard to leave earth.  it caused quite a stir, in fact. but i had spent my whole life...
looking up at the stars.
yes.
and you dreamed about what was up there. about...
new worlds.
after you, praetor.
age before rank, jean luc.
so I am not as tall as you expected?
i always hoped i would hit two meters.
with a full head of hair.
there is that.
shinzon... I am trying to believe you.
i know.
if there is one ideal the federation holds most dear it is that all men, all races, can be united. from the first time the vulcans came to earth we have sought a future of peace. nothing would make me more proud than to take your hand in friend- ship. in time. when trust has been earned.
I am honored to think i might someday speak with such eloquence.
in time, jean luc.
in time.
this is a mistake.
he is gentler than i thought. and he has a sense of humor.
do not forget our mission, shinzon. we should act. now. time is running out.
my time. I will spend it how i choose.
sir, we have had an unauthorized access into the main computer.
who was it?
it is going to take some time to find out -- the data stream was rerouted through substations all over the ship.
what programs were accessed?
that is what i do not get -- it is mostly basic stellar cartography: star charts; communications protocols; some uplinks from colony tracking stations. it is not even restricted material.
set up a security program to detect any unusual data stream rerouting. if it happens again, we want to be ready.
there is something else. i was reviewing the sensor logs.
i thought thalaron radiation was theoretical.
which is why our initial scans did not pick it up. but he is got it, captain.
as i remember, thalaron research was banned in the federation because of its bioqenic properties.
it has the ability to consume organic material at the subatomic level. i can not overestimate the danger of thalaron radiation, jean luc. a microscopic amount could kill every living thing on this ship in a matter of seconds.
understood. keep on it. i need to know what he has and how to neutralize any threat. give me options.
beverly, come in.
you are working late.
remember him?
he was a bit proud as i recall.
he was a damn fool. selfish and ambitious. very much in need of seasoning.
he turned out all right.
i so wanted to believe shinzon. but the thalaron radiation can not be explained away. whatever he is after, it is not peace.
is he very much like you were?
yes.
data to captain picard. geordi and i have identified the source of the unauthorized computer access. and, i believe, we have also discovered an opportunity to gain a tactical advantage.
on my way.
jean luc, whatever you were... right now you are the man you have made yourself. he is someone else.
i wish i could believe that, doctor.
you are not here.
very logical, deanna... but your heart does not constrain itself to mere logic.  to leave all of this behind and be with me.
no.
i can feel your desire, deanna.
the bond is broken.
find her again.
no -- this is wasting time.
do as i tell you!
praetor, we have received the transponder signal.
on my way.
it is accelerating. you have no more time for games.
have the doctors prepare. I will be on the bridge.'
aside from slightly elevated adrenalin and serotonin levels, you are completely normal.
can you describe it, deanna?
shinzon's viceroy seems to have the ability to reach into my thoughts. I have become a liability... i request to be relieved of my duties.
permission denied. if you can possibly endure any more of these assaults.  i need you at my side. now more than ever i...
hello, jean luc.
why am i here?
i was lonely...
what are you doing?
i need a sample of your blood. what do your borg friends say? resistance is futile.
all of this so you could capture me?
do not be so vain. after we found it, we made a few modifications. an extra memory port, a hidden transponder. perhaps your eyes will be a bit less confident when you learn I have gained access to starfleet's communications protocols. i now know the location of your entire fleet ...  you may go.
maybe I will train it to do little tricks for me like your robot does.  or maybe ill snap its ugly head off.
what is this all about?
it is about destiny, picard. about a reman outcast who...
you are not reman.
and I am not quite human. so what am i? what do you see?  do you see a life you might have led? lost youth never to be recaptured?
i see a young man trying desperately to deny who he is.
i see an old man, set in his ways, afraid to live without a uniform to prop him up and a starfleet regulation to tell him what to do. i see the man i will never be.
i will not defend my life to you.
my life is meaningless as long as you are alive. what am i while you exist? a shadow? an enigma?
if your issues are with me... this has nothing to do with my ship and nothing to do with the federation.
oh, but it does.  we will no longer bow like slaves before anyone. not the romulans and not your mighty federation. we are a race bred for war. for conquest.
think about what you are doing, shinzon. are you ready to plunge the entire quadrant into war to satisfy your own personal demons?
it amazes me how little you know yourself.
I am incapable of such an act, and so are you.
i think the facts speak for themselves. the same noble picard blood runs in our veins. had you lived my life, you would be doing exactly as i am. look in the mirror, and see yourself.
so, human... you have met your better self!
what are you doing to counsellor troi?
I am preparing her for shinzon. to sooth him as she soothes you. to stand at his side as she does at yours.
that will never happen.
listen to him, android. such a small and weak creature. yet he roars so valiantly...
it would take me but an instant to tear that valiant heart from your chest.
there'll be another after me. and another after that. you will find we are a resilient species.
i look forward to the sport.  take him.
my mission was a success, sir. i have discovered the source of the thalaron radiation.
good work. the download?
he believes he has our communications protocols. but they will give him inaccurate locations for all starfleet vessels.
a bit less florid, data.
aye, sir... this way.
a weapon.
it would appear so.
geordi equipped me with the prototype for the emergency transport unit. i recommend you use it to return to the enterprise.
it will only work for one of us.
yes, sir.
we will find a way off together. recommendations?
there is a shuttlebay 948 meters from our current location.
alacrity would be appreciated, commander.
they are trying to override the access codes. reman is really a most complex language with pictographs representing certain verb roots and...
while i find that fascinating, data, we really need that goddamned door open!
what do you imagine this is?
port thrusters, sir. would you like me to drive?
can you open the shuttlebay doors?
affirmative, sir. negative, sir. they have instigated security overrides and erected a force field around the external portals.
well then... only one way to go.
do you think this is a wise course of action?
we are about to find out... power up disruptors and fire on my mark.
ready, captain.
fire!
the enterprise is immaterial! they will not make it back to federation space.

i thought we discussed patience, commander.
and mine is wearing thin, young man! we supported you because you promised action. and yet you delay and you waste your time playing games with picard while--
commander suran, the games are over. in two days the federation will be crippled beyond repair. does that satisfy you?
for the moment.
and when i return... you and i shall have a little talk about showing proper respect!
the more i studied his dna the more confusing it got. finally i could only come to one conclusion... shinzon was created with temporal rna sequencing. he was designed so that at a certain point his aging process could be accelerated to reach your age more quickly, so he could replace you.
but the romulans abandoned the plan.
as a result the temporal sequencing was never activated. remember, he was supposed to replace you at nearly your current age. he was engineered to skip thirty years of life. but since the rna sequencing was never activated, his cellular structure has started to break down. he is dying.
dying?
he was not designed to live a complete, human life span.
can anything be done for him?
how long does he have?
i can not be sure but the rate of decay seems to be accelerating.
brother. i cannot move.
no, i have only activated your cognitive and communication subroutines.
why?
because you are dangerous.
why?
you have been programmed to gather information that can be used against this ship.
i do not understand.
i know.
do you know anything about shinzon's plans against the federation?
no.
do you have any knowledge of the tactical abi1ities of this ship?
no. can i move now?
no. i must deactivate you.
for how long?
indefinitely.
how long is that?
it is called a cascading bio- genic pulse. the unique properties of thalaron radiation allow the energy beam to expand almost without limits. depending on the radiant intensity it could encompass a ship... or a planet.
and that is exactly what he is going to do.
sir?
his hatred of the federation is apparent. he would have built a weapon of that scope for one reason. he is going after earth.
oh boy. destroy humanity and the federation is crippled.
and the romulans invade.
how can you be certain?
i know how he thinks.
but we do have one advantage.  he needs your blood to live. he might come after you first.
I am counting on it... we have been ordered to head to sector 3274. starfleet is diverting the fleet to meet us there.
strength in numbers?
we can only hope so.
to seek out new life and new civilizations. zephyr. cochrans own words. when charles darwin set out on the h.m.s. beagle, on his journey into the unknown... he sailed without a single musket.
that was another time.
how far we have come. let me know if you need anything.
how long?
a matter of hours now.
how long until we reach the rift?
seven minutes.
how long until we reach the fleet?
at our current velocity we will arrive at sector 3274 in approximately 40 minutes.
"for now we see but through a glass darkly..." he said he is a mirror.
of you?
yes.
i do not agree. although you share the same genetic structure, the events of your life have created unique individual.
but so much is the same. on a biological level he is... and i will not accept the idea that there is nothing i can do. i have a responsibility to try to make a human connection with him.
he would deny a "human" connection is possible. he considers himself entirely reman.
he may have already rejected my humanity, but you also have a twin
no, sir, it is not possible. the b-9 is physically identical to me, although his neural pathways are not as advanced. but even if they were, he would not be me.
how can you be sure?
i aspire, sir. to be better than i am. the b-9 does not. nor does shinzon.
we are passing through the bassen rift. the projections will return when we have cleared it.
it is interfering with our uplink from starfleet cartography?
yes, sir. the rift effects all long-range communications.
commander riker, evasive maneuvers!
report.
he is firing through his cloak. we can not get a lock.
worf, prepare a full phaser spread, zero elevation. all banks on my mark. scan for shield impacts and stand by photon torpedoes.
aye, sir
we are losing dorsal shields.
full axis rotation to port! fire all ventral phasers!
minimal damage to the scimitar.
defensive pattern kirk epsilon. geordi, get those shields online.
counselor troi, report to the bridge.
unless we can disable his cloak we are just going to be firing in the dark.
agreed.
sir, we are being hailed.
on screen.
you can not trace my holographic emitters, captainn. so do not bother. and you can not contact starfleet. we are quite alone.
we are.
it is just the two of us now, jean luc, as it should be... your ship and mine... you and me.
why are you here?
to accept your surrender. i can clearly destroy you at any time. lower your shields and allow me to transport you to my ship.
and what of the enterprise?
i have little interest in your quaint vessel, captain. if the enterprise will withdraw to a distance of one hundred light years, it will not be harmed.
you know that is not possible.
i know... you will all gladly die to save your home world.
look at me, shinzon! do you feel the blood pumping inside you? your hands, your eyes, your nature, are the same as mine. buried deep inside you beneath the years of pain and anger is a capacity you have forgotten. it is the one way our mirror can reflect the two of us exactly because it is the very thing that truly defines us. to be human is to try to make yourself better than you are.
i know you as well as i know myself, shinzon. there was a time you looked at the stars and dreamed of what might be.
long ago.
not so long.
childish dreams, captain. lost in the dilithium mines of remus. I am what you see now.
i see more than what you are.
the man who is jean luc picard and shinzon of remus will not exterminate the population of an entire planet! he is better than that!
he is what his life has made him!
yes.
so if i gave you my life, what would you do with it? would you spend the years in a blaze of hatred as you are now? or could you change? could you try to remember a mother's touch you never felt? a father's words you never heard? could you do that?
i do not know.
but you want to.
that is your life... not mine.
please.
its too late.
you can still make a choice! make the right one now!
i have no choices! i can not fight what i am!
report!
two ships decloaking, sir! romulan!
believe it or not, i think the cavalry has arrived.
we are being hailed.
captain picard, commander donatra of the warbird valdore. might we be of assistance?
your timing is impeccable, commander.
the empire considers this a matter of internal security. we regret you have become involved.
when this is over, i owe you a drink.
coordinate our attack with the valdore's tactical officer. triangulate fire on any shield impacts.
aye, sir.
let her pursue -- drop cloak on the aft port quadrant and prepare for full emergency stop.
what?!
you heard me.
praetor...
full stop and fire !
I am afraid that drink will have to wait, captain.
do you have life support?

understood.
we have lost structural integrity on decks twelve through seventeen, sections four through ten.
emergency force fields are holding.
captain -- i might have a way to find them.
counselor?
the one thing he may have forgotten in the course of battle: me.
make it so.
what is it?!! focus on your job!!
she is here.
captain, we have lost ventral shielding on deck twenty nine.
divert power and compensate.
intruder alert!
let's go.
he is getting his cloak back. we have exhausted our compliment of photon torpedoes. phaser banks are down to four percent.
what if we target all phasers in a concentrated attack?
what is he doing?
he wants to look me in the eye.
he thinks he knows exactly what I am going to do.
sir?
weve got him!
we are being hailed.
deanna, stand by.  open a channel.
i hope you are still alive, jean luc.
i am.
do not you think it is time to surrender? I will have my cloak back in a matter of minutes and your poor ship is shot to pieces. why should the rest of your crew have to die?
geordi, put 211 power to the engines.  take it from life support if you have to -- everything you can give me.
aye, sir.
deanna, on my mark.
ready, sir!
target disruptors. destroy them.
disruptors are off-line, sir.
deploy the weapon. kill everything on that ship. then set a course for earth.
what about picard?
our greater goal is more important, brother.
but, praetor, you will not survive without him...
how long until he can fire?
the targeting sequence should take about four minutes.
but how can he? he will kill you.
this is not about me anymore.
prepare for a site-to-site transport.
sir, we wont be able to bring you back. its a one way trip. captain, i do not know if the transporter...
that is an order, commander.
sir, allow me to go. you are needed here.
negative.
sir.
you have the bridge, commander. use all available power to move away from the scimitar.  now, mister la forge.
aye, sir.
what is our approximate distance?

sir, we are being hailed.
on screen.
open a channel.
this is commander donatra of the valdore. we are dispatching shuttles with medical personnel and supplies.
thank you, commander.
geordi... prepare the shuttle- bay for arrivals. they do not know our procedures so just... open the doors.
I will take care of it, sir.
number one.  you have the bridge.
captain, the hemingway has arrived to tow us to spacedock.
on my way. please notify commander riker.
the titan's a fine ship, will. and she is getting a captain worthy of her.
she is the most beautiful ship ive ever seen.
but she is not the enterprise.
i promise you in time, she will become your home ...if i could offer you one piece of advice?
anything.
when your first officer insists that you can not go on away missions... ignore him.
i intend to.
serving with you has been an honor.
the honor was mine. captain riker.
you can' t imagine them, jean luc. they are kids! all with advance degrees in xenobiology and out to conquer every disease in the quadrant.
reminds me of a young doctor i used to know...
they are running me ragged. nothing but question day and night... i love it! come to dinner and 1'1 tell you all about it. there is a bajoran band at the officer's mess.
not tonight, i have work here.
soon then.  ill save the last dance for you.
what is this?
your new chair, sir.
