... population three hundred million...
say the greeting again...
yew-cheen chef-faw... emphasis on the 'cheen' and the 'faw'...
you either need a new uniform or a new neck.
'yew-cheen chef-faw'... my collar size is exactly the same as it was at the academy.
sure it is. and your hair is still chestnut brown.
oh, my god, are they vegetarians? that is not in here...
better have the chef whip up a light balsamic vinaigrette... something that goes well with chrysanthemums...
they need us to mediate some territorial dispute...
we can not delay the archaeological expedition to hanoran two. it would put us into the middle of monsoon season...
the diplomatic corps is busy with dominion negotiations.
... so they need us to put out one more brush fire.  anyone remember when we used to be explorers?
'yew-cheen chef-faw.'
deck ten.
very funny...
your captain used to cut quite a rug...
captain...
worf, what the hell are you doing here?
you have no idea what precipitated his behavior?
... and now he is holding our people hostage down there...
the enterprise can be at your position in two days, admiral...
that is probably not a good idea. your ship has not been fitted for this region; there are environmental concerns...
what kind of concerns?
we have not fully identified the anomalies yet. they are calling this whole area the briar patch... it took us a day to reach a location where we could get a signal out to you. just get me data's schematics. I will keep you informed.  dougherty out.
i want our guests to depart as quickly a etiquette allows. I will ask worf to delay his return to ds9 so he can join us. we are going to stop by sector four-four- one on our way to the goren system.
they... are in opposite directions, sir...
are they...?
your federation procedures have made this mission ten times as difficult as it needed to be...
our procedures were in place to protect the planet's population from unnecessary risk...
planet's population. six hundred people. you want to avoid unnecessary risks? next time leave your android home.
take us into a high orbit.  lie down, admiral. the girls will take twenty years off your face...
another time.
your self-restraint puzzles me, admiral. you continue to deny yourself every benefit this mission has to offer...
i prefer to wait until we can share the benefits with all the people of the federation...
who is it?
commander riker...
... and gorgonzolla cheese.
we will not be able to go any faster than one-third impulse in that muck...
nothing dangerous turned up in the astrometric survey...
so where are the 'environmental concerns' the admiral was talking about?
the only unusual readings were low levels of metaphasic radiation from interstellar dust across the region...
bridge to captain picard. we are approaching sector four-four-one.
slow to impulse. we are on our way.
we are about to lose communications with starfleet, captain.
do you have everything you need from command?
we have downloaded all the files on the duck blind mission as well as intelligence reports on the son'a.
you have two days to become experts... mister worf, your job and mine will be to find a plan to safely capture data.
I have already modified a tricorder with one of his spare actuation servos. its operational range is only seven meters but it should shut him down...
it is good to have you back, worf.  slow to one-third. take us in.
the son'a discovered an m-class planet with humanoid life six months ago. turned out it is in us to get approval for a sociological study. the federation council suggested it be a joint mission...
why was data assigned?
"environmental concerns", again. an android could be safely exposed to the elements during the installation of a duck blind...
i do not see anything to suggest the son'a have any interest in sociology...
what are they interested in...?
wine, women and song.
you should feel right at home with them.
nomadic, collectors of precious metals, jewels...
hmm, i should feel right at home with them...
you are in luck... it says here they have taken women from several races as indentured servants.
why would we be involved with these people?
good question.
you have not done that in a long time...
what...?
what you are doing to my neck...
was i doing something to your neck?
it says here that some form of genetic damage has apparently prevented the son'a from procreating...
no children?
if that is true, they are a dying race.
i... i must have slept through my alarm. I am on my way...
we will skip the court martial this time... picard out.
the torque sensors are out of alignment... by twelve microns... you could hear that?
when i was an ensign, i could detect a three-micron mis- alignment...
captain, i was not expecting you.
this was too important for the enterprise to be on the sidelines, admiral...
i wish i had better news. commander data attacked us in the mission scout ship yesterday. ru'afo and i have decided to send in an assault team...
sir, commander worf and i have been working on several tactical plans to safely...
your android has turned dangerously violent, captain... considerable damage was done to my ship. he must be destroyed.
i know what data means to starfleet, jean-luc... but our crew is at the mercy of those people on the planet...
it is not safe for you to remain in this area.
he is right. our shields have been upgraded to protect against the environmental anomalies...
all right. you have twelve hours, captain. then i want you out of the briar patch. in the meantime, we will be heading out to the perimeter to call for son'a reinforcements in case you fail.
understood.
good luck. dougherty out.
sensors are not picking up any ships coming from the surface...
transmit a wide band co-variant signal. that will get his attention.
he might be using the planet's rings to mask his approach.
the metaphasic radiation in those rings is in a state of extreme flux. steer clear of them, mister worf...
come out, come out wherever you are...
sir?
hmm? oh, it is just something my mother used to...
sir, if we fire a tachyon burst, it may force him to reset his shield harmonics. when he does, we could beam him out...
make it so.
direct hit. he is resetting his shield harmonics...
beam him out!
he is activated a transport inhibitor.
prepare to enter the atmosphere... we will use the ionospheric boundary to shake him...
scanners are off line!
evasive maneuvers... heading one- four-zero mark three-one...
do you know gilbert and sullivan?
no, sir. i have not had a chance to meet all the new crew members since I have been back...
they are composers, worf, from the nineteenth century. data was rehearsing a part in h.m.s. pinafore before he left...  "a british tar is a soaring soul, as free as a mountain bird, his energetic first should be ready to resist a dictatorial word..."
sir, inertial coupling is exceeding tolerance... if we do not release him, he may destroy both vessels...
I am not letting go of him.
the damping sequencer was damaged by phaser fire!
transferring controls to manual.
counselor?
they have an incredible clarity of perception, captain. I have never encountered a species with such mental discipline...
my name is sojef, captain.
jean-luc picard... my officers doctor crusher and counselor troi.
would you like something to eat?
no, we are here to... rescue them.
as you wish. but i would ask you to disarm yourselves. this village is a sanctuary of life.
prepare to transport the 'hostages' to the ship...
they should be quarantined before joining the ship's population.
we were under the impression they were being held against their will.
it is not our custom to have guests here at all, let alone hold anyone against their will.
my people have a strict policy of non-interference with other cultures. in fact, it is our prime directive.
your directive apparently does not include spying on other cultures.
if i were in your shoes, I would feel the same way after what happened.  the 'artificial lifeform' is a member of my crew. apparently, he became... ill...
you have warp capability?
capability, yes. but where can warp drive take us, except away from here...?
... and because they have warp capabilities, the consequences to their society are minimal...
you have done a terrific job, jean- luc. now, pack your bags and get the hell out of there. how is data?
in stasis. la forge is completing the diagnostic.
I will need all your paperwork tomorrow. we are heading back your way. set a course to rendezvous with us so you can transfer the crew and equipment on your way out.
you are not finished here?
just a few loose ends to tie up. dougherty out.
come in.  hi.
got a minute? i... need a little counseling.  first time for everything. do i... lie down... or what?
whatever makes you comfortable...
this is not one of the usual therapeutic postures...
but it is comfortable.
why do not you try sitting up?
or you could try lying down.
you are in quite a mood today.
both.  i think I am having a mid-life crisis...
... i believe you...
... I am not sleeping well...
... doctor crusher has something that will take care of that...
what i need, i can not get from doctor crusher...  counselor, do you think it is possible for two people to go back in time to fix a mistake they have made?
on this ship, anything can happen. and usually does.
augh.
augh?
i never kissed you with a beard before.
i took these out of data's neural net... they contain memory engrams...
do you know how they were damaged?
by a son'a weapon.  there is no doubt about it, sir. that is what made data malfunction.
the son'a reports claim they did not fire until after he malfunctioned.
i do not believe it happened that way.
why would they fire at him without provocation?
all i know is that he was functioning normally until he was shot. then, his fail-safe system was activated...
fail-safe?
his ethical and moral subroutines took over all of his basic functions...
so, you are saying he still knew the difference between right and wrong.
in a sense, that is all he knew. the system is designed to protect him against anyone who might try to take advantage of his memory loss.
and yet he attacked us. and told the ba'ku we were a threat...
implants bothering you?
it is nothing. I am just tired.
hello, data...
captain, geordi...?
you are aboard the enterprise.
yes... that looks like them.
what is the last thing you remember, data...
'his nose should pant and his lip should curl...'
from the mission...
i was in an isolation suit collecting physiometric data on ba'ku children. my last memory is going into the hills, following a boy...
i understand how you feel. we just want to retrace data's movements that day...
why?
i do not like to leave questions unanswered.
then you must spend your life answering questions.
there is no need for concern. i am operating within normal parameters now.
you are what?
i am better.
i believe the boy is... afraid... of me.
it is nothing personal data. you have to remember these people have rejected technology. and you...
... i am the personification of everything they have rejected.
until this week, that young man probably never saw a  machine, let alone one that walks and talks...
and i do not believe i made a very good first impression.
tricorder functions are limited due to heavy deposits of kelbonite in these hills...
how about a passive radiation scan?
can he breathe under water?
data does not breathe.
will not he rust?
no.
a ship,
it is clearly federation in origin, captain.
'just a few loose ends to tie up.'
incomplete, i might add.
what you are seeing is a computer driven image created by photons and forcefields...
i know what a hologram is, captain. the question is -- why would someone want to create one of our village?
data, if you were following the boy and discovered this ship...
... it is conceivable i was shot to protect the secret of its existence.
what possible purpose could a duplicate village have except... to deceive the ba'ku...
deceive us?
to move you off this planet. you go to sleep one night in your village... wake up the next morning in this flying holodeck transported en masse. a week later, maybe a month, you have been relocated on a similar planet without ever realizing it.
why would the federation or the son'a wish to move the ba'ku?
i do not know.
do not panic...
I have been shot at... thrown into the lake out of an invisible ship that is come to abduct us all... what is there to panic about?
did any of the hostages mention a cloaked ship during their debriefings?
no, sir...
debrief them again.  have you been in a fight, commander?
no, sir. it is a gorch.
gorch?
admiral dougherty wants to know why we have not left yet...
we are not going anywhere.
deck five.
you klingons never do anything small, do you...
doctor crusher asked to talk to you when you returned...
picard to crusher...
captain, the son'a hostages declined to be examined. i had them confined to quarters.
and our people?
they all have slightly elevated levels of endorphin production... probably the result of the environmental anomalies here...
are they in any danger?
not at all. they are fine... in fact, they are better than fine. increased metabolism, high energy, improved muscle tone. we should all be so lucky.
very good, doctor. picard out.
we came here from a solar system on the verge of self- annihilation... where technology had created weapons that threatened to destroy all life. a small group of us set off to find a new home... a home that would be isolated from the threats of other worlds.  that was three hundred and nine years ago.
you have not aged a day since then?
actually, i was a good deal older when we arrived... in terms of my physical condition.
there is an unusual metaphasic radiation coming from the planet's rings. it continuously regenerates the cells in our bodies. you must have noticed the effects by now.
we've... just begun to.  i suppose you are seventy-five.
to many offlanders, what you have here would be more valuable than gold-pressed latinum.  and I am afraid it is the reason that someone is trying to take this world away from you.
the artificial lifeform was right?
if not for data, you would probably have been re-located by now.
clearly, the architects of this conspiracy have tried to keep it a secret. not just from you, but from my people as well.  i do not intend to let them.
we have always known that to survive, we had to remain apart. it has not been easy. many of the young people here want to know more about the offland... they are attracted to stories of a faster pace of life...
most of my people who live that faster pace would sell their souls to slow it down.
but not you.
there are days.
you do not live up to your reputation as an offlander, picard.
in defense of offlanders, there are many more like me...
... who would not be tempted by the promise of perpetual youth? i do not think so.
you give me more credit than i deserve. of course, I am tempted. who would not be?  but some of the blackest marks in the history of my world have involved the forced relocation of a small group of people to satisfy the demands of a larger one. I would like to believe we learn from our mistakes. obviously, some of us haven't.
the craftsmanship is extraordinary.
this is a school... that is a student's work.  she will be ready to become an apprentice soon. then, in thirty or forty years, she will take her place among the artisans...
an apprentice for thirty years.  we have noticed your people's mental discipline. did that develop here?
more questions. always the explorer. if you stay long enough, that will change.
will it?
you will stop reviewing what happened yesterday... stop planning for tomorrow... until you find...  let me ask you a question -- have you ever experienced a perfect moment in time?
a perfect moment?
when time seemed to stop... and you could almost live in that moment...
seeing my home planet from space for the first time...
yes. exactly. nothing more complicated than perception.  you explore the universe. we have discovered a single moment in time can be a universe in itself... full of powerful forces... most people are not aware enough of the now... to ever notice them...
i wish i could spare a few centuries to learn.
it took us centuries to learn that it does not have to take centuries to learn.
there is one thing i do not understand.  in three hundred years...you never learned to swim?
i just... have not gotten around to it yet.
i wonder if you are aware of the trust you endanger, jean-luc picard. in my experience, it is unusual for...
... an offlander?
for someone so young.
funniest thing, captain. there was not anything wrong with my implants. there was something right with my eyes. when doctor crusher removed the ocular connections, she found the cells around my optic nerves...
... had regenerated.
it may not last after we leave. if not, i just wanted, before we go...  I have never actually seen a sunrise.
you are looking well, jean-luc. rested.
your "briar patch" turned out to be more hospitable than i expected.
that is why we put chromodynamic shields in place - so our people would not feel the effects from the metaphasic radiation...
... or understand that they were participating in the outright theft of a world.  i will not let you move them, admiral. I will go to the federation council...
I am acting on orders form the federation council.
how can there be an order to abandon the prime directive...?
the prime directive does not apply. these people are not indigenous to this world. they were never meant to be immortal. we will simply be restoring their natural evolution.
who are we to decide the next course of evolution for these people?
there are six hundred people down there. we will be able to use the regenerative properties of this radiation to help billions.  the son'a have developed a procedure to collect the metaphasic particles form the planets rings...
a planet in federation space...
right. we have the planet and they have the technology -- a technology we can not duplicate. you know what that makes us? their partners.
our partners are nothing more than petty thugs.
on earth, petroleum once turned petty thugs into world leaders. warp drive transformed a bunch of romulan thugs into an empire. we can handle the son'a, I am not worried about that...
someone probably said the same thing about the romulans a century ago.
with metaphasics, lifespans will be doubled... an entire new medical science will evolve...  i understand your chief engineer has the use of his eyes for the first time in his life... would you take his sight away from him?
there are metaphasic particles all over the briar patch. why must this planet be...
the concentration in the rings is what makes the whole damned thing work. do not ask me to explain it. i only know they inject something into the rings that starts a thermolytic reaction. after it is over, the planet will be unlivable for generations.
delay the procedure. let my people look at the technology.
our best scientific minds already have. we can not find any other way to do this.
then the son'a can establish a separate colony on this planet until we do...
it would take ten years of normal exposure to begin to reverse their condition. some of them will not survive that long. besides, they do not want to live in the middle of the briar patch... who would?
the ba'ku.
we are betraying the principles upon which the federation was founded... this is an attack on the very soul of the federation.  this will destroy the ba'ku. just as cultures have been destroyed in every other forced relocation throughout history.
we are only moving six hundred people, jean-luc.
how many people would it take... before it becomes wrong? a thousand? fifty thousand. a million?
prepare the ship for departure at oh-seven-hundred hours.
aye, sir.
gallatin! so the righteous starfleet captain finally released you. did you encounter any problems on the surface?
no, sir. but it was not easy... being among them...
I am sure. just do not forget what they did to us.  we will have them rounded up in a day or two... we need not bother with the federation holo-ship any more. just get the holding cells ready.
you must be planning on doing some hunting.
go back to your quarters  that is an order.
there is a short letter i left you all, just some... sentimental nonsense... the computer will bring it to your attention at oh- four-hundred... I would just as soon you delete it...
fat chance. I will post it on every monitor on the ship...
the injector performs perfectly in every simulation...
sir, as the enterprise left orbit, one of their support craft went down to the surface.  it appeared to be the captain's yacht. five persons on board.
we are not waiting until morning... take the shuttles and get everyone off the surface tonight.
when we are forced away by the terrain, we will use transport inhibitors to compensate. the mountains have the highest concentrations. once we are there, transport will be virtually impossible...
there are caves in those mountains.
we can hold them off a long time... once we get there...  but they will not make it easy to get there...
captain, I have activated transport inhibitors around the village...
good. let's begin to move these people out...
should i distribute phasers to the ba'ku, sir...?
no. we will be responsible for that, mister worf.
they are following the kelbonite deposits... using the interference to block our transporters...
recommendations?
take me down. let me talk to picard.
talk... we should send down an assault team and take them by force.
that is not an acceptable option. if people get hurt, all the support we have in the federation...
federation support, federation procedures, federation rules... look in the mirror, admiral... the federation is old... in the last twenty four months, it is been challenged by every major power in the quadrant -- the borg, the cardassians, the dominion... they all smell the scent of death on the federation. that is why you have embraced our offer... because it will give your dear federation new life. well, how badly do you want it, admiral? because there are hard choices to be made now. if the enterprise gets through with news about their brave captain's valiant struggle on behalf of the defenseless ba'ku, your federation politicians will waver, your federation opinion polls will open a public debate, your federation allies will want their say... need i go on?
there is an alternative to an all- out assault. isolinear tags would allow our transporters to lock on to them.
we would have to tag every one of them... that would take time... and we do not have it. the enterprise is only nineteen hours from communications range with the federation...
I will order riker to turn around.
picard's first officer. do you really believe he will listen?
my father told me i should not talk to you.
i understand.
i don't.
not everyone here agrees with him. i mean, you know, about machines. there was even a big fight about it once.  do you like being a machine?
i aspire to be more than i am.
i know why.  so people like us will not be afraid of you any more.
perhaps, that is true.
do not you ever get tired?
my power cells continually re- charge themselves.
i can not imagine what it would be like to be a machine.
perhaps it would surprise you to know that i have often tried to imagine what it would be like to be a child...
really?
really.
for one thing, your legs are shorter than everyone else's.
but they are in a constant state of growth. do you find it difficult to adapt?  a child's specifications are never the same from one moment to the next. i am surprised that you do not... trip over your own feet.
sometimes i do.
my legs are eighty-seven-point- two centimeters. they were eighty-seven-point-two centimeters the day i was created. they will be eighty- seven-point-two centimeters the day i go off line. my operation depends on specifications that do not change.  i... cannot imagine... the experience of growing up or even tripping over my own feet...
but you have never had adults telling you what to do all the time... or bedtimes... or having to eat food you do not like...
i would gladly accept the requirement of a bedtime in exchange for knowing what it is like to be a child.
do machines ever play?
i play the violin... and my chess routines are quite advanced...
no, i mean...
chase me!
for what purpose?
because you are it. and if you tag me... then I am it.
but i can run much faster than you... i am capable of exceeding forty-seven meters per second...
data... have not you ever just played... for fun?
androids... do not have...fun.
why not...?
no one's ever asked me that before.
if you want to know 'what it is like to be a child', you need to learn how to play...
you need a haircut, commander.
accelerated hair growth is often experienced by klingons during jak'tahla...
jak'tahla?
roughly translated: puberty... although for a klingon that is not doing it justice...  any severe mood swings, unusual aggressive tendencies -- be sure to let me know right away...
the ba'ku could use some rest, sir. according to the geo-scan, this may be the safest area for the next few kilometers...
very well. we will take an hour. break out some rations...
right beyond that ridge is where the caves begin... we can hide for days...
by now the son'a have scanned the area and know that just as well as we do.
how is it a woman like you never married? and do not tell me you "just have not gotten around to it yet"...
what is the rush?
i should warn you... I have always been attracted to older women...
commander, I am showing two son'a ships on an intercept course.
how long 'til they reach us?
eighteen minutes...
i do not think they believe us.
why not?
a photon torpedo.  is not that the universal greeting when communications are down?
i think it is the universal greeting when you do not like someone.
full impulse.
the manifold can not handle full impulse in the patch, commander.
if we do not outrun them, the manifolds are going to be the only thing left of this ship.
I will be in engineering.
all hands. battle stations!
and have you noticed how your boobs have started to firm up?
isolinear tags. their transporters can lock onto them.
we have to find shelter...
there is a cavern at the base of the next hill...
this way!
what is inside that nebula cluster?
cometary debris, pockets of unstable metreon gas... we do not want to go in there, sir...
yes, we do.  you are relieved, ensign. take over at ops.
sir, they have detonated an isolytic burst... a subspace tear is forming...
on screen.
i thought subspace weapons were banned by the khitomer accord...
remind me to lodge a protest...
we are pulling it like a zipper across space...
options?
eject the core.
will that stop the tear?
you got me, commander.
that is your expert opinion?
detonating the warp core might neutralize the cascade... but then again it might not. subspace weapons are unpredictable. that is why they were banned.
the tear is closing on us... impact in fifteen seconds...
eject the core.
we are still thirty-six minutes from transmission range, sir.
we are through running from these bastards.
how many?
another forty-three people reported taken, sir...
I am showing fresh air  behind this calcite formation, captain...
will the structure hold if we blast through?
i believe it is safe, sir.
aye, sir. highly volatile...i recommend we keep our distance...
negative. i want to use the ramscoop to collect as much of it as we can...
the purpose being...?
the purpose being i intend to shove it down the son'a's throat.
commander, if one of their weapons hits that gas...
it is our only way out of here, mister nara.
i would not be surprised if history remembers this as the riker maneuver...
if it works you mean.
even if it doesn't, they will be teaching kids as the academy not to do this for years to come.
they are powering their forward weapons array.
blow out the ramscoop. stand by full thrusters.
will he live?
yes. but look at this medscan...
anij!
tournel will take you the rest of the way...
no... i want to stay with you...
it is safer there. i will join you shortly.
worf to picard...
yes... yes, i... can hear you...
we are trying to get to you, sir...
worf, you must hurry...
we are coming as fast as we can... we can not risk using phasers...
i understand. tell doctor crusher to have a hypospray of lectrazine ready...
she is stabilizing.
is it safe to move her?
safer than leaving her here.
order them to surrender, and i promise you will not be court- martialed.
if a court-martial is the only way to tell the people of the federation what happened here, then i welcome it.
i wonder... which one of us will be facing that court-martial...
there is nothing further to be gained from this...
you are not going to launch anything until...
in six hours, every living thing in this system will be dead or dying.
you are ro'tin, are not you...? there is something in the voice.  would you be his friend gal'na?  i helped your mother bathe you when you were a child. she still speaks of you.
you have brought the federation into the middle of a blood feud, admiral. the children have returned to expel their elders... just as they were once expelled. except ru'afo's need for revenge has now escalated to parricide.
we are taking this ship out of here... this mission is over...
it is not over.
it is over.
i do not take orders from you.
if you begin the procedure while the planet is still populated, the federation will pursue you until...
admiral dougherty will not be joining us for diner. deploy the collector.  do you have a problem with those orders?
may i talk to you alone?
deploy the collector.
moving them is one thing. killing them all...
no one hated them more than you, gal'na.  we have come a long way together. this is the moment we have planned for so many years...
separate the starfleet personnel and secure them in the aft cargo hold... see that picard joins them...
the shields in that section will not protect them against the thermolytic reaction...
thank-you for reminding me.
a coward... without the moral courage to stop an unspeakable atrocity. you offend me.
is this how a federation officer begs for his life?
I am not begging for my life. I am begging for yours.  there is still a way home, gal'na.
what you are asking me to do... is impossible... the crew is loyal to ru'afo...
do you know how to disable the injector?
but i would need at least three minutes on the bridge.
if we could lure him away from the bridge...
it does not matter where he is. as soon as he realizes something is happening, he will override my commands with one word at his com- link...
what if he does not realize something is happening...  can you get me to a transmitter? i have to speak with worf and data on the surface... we will need their help...
initiate launch sequence.
activating injector assembly.
exactly as the simulations predicted...
sir, i am not showing any change in metaphasic flux levels...
your scanners must be malfunctioning.
all ship functions are off-line.
all injector sub-systems are confirmed off-line.
decloak the holo-ship and engage a tractor beam, mister worf.
this ship is equipped with fourteen long range transporters... are they all useless...?
they must have been locked and secured after we were beamed here.
isolate one and re-route its command sequence through the auxiliary processor...
the council has ordered a halt to the ba'ku relocation while they conduct a top-level review.
top level review, my ass. there'll be no cover-up of this. not after i get...
the countdown control has been transferred to the collector...i can not override...
scan for lifesigns.
one. it is ru'afo.
can you beam him off?
negative. he is established a security field around the control room...
is there any other way to disable the injector?
i wish there was a way to bring them back home.
ask them.
I am afraid there is too much bitterness... on both sides.
mother and son. you arranged this...?
i thought it might begin the healing process.
but i have three hundred and eighteen days of vacation time coming. i plan on using them.
I will be here.
do you really think your mighty federation would be interested in protecting six hundred people?
the "mighty" federation could learn a few things from this village...
i have to go home now.
bye.
