leaving section fourteen for section fifteen.
project parabolic course to avoid entering neutral zone.
aye, captain.
may i remind the captain that if a starship enters the zone --
I am aware of my responsibilities, mister.
... now entering the neutral zone...
shields activated!
inform the klingons we are on a rescue mission...
we are over our heads. mr. sulu, get us out of here.
I will try, captain.
fire all phasers...!
no power to the weapons system, sir.
any suggestions, admiral?
prayer, mr. saavik. the klingons do not take prisoners.  captain.
physician, heal thyself.
that is all you have to say?
I am not a drama critic.
well, mr. saavik, are you going to stay with the sinking ship?
permission to speak candidly, sir?
very well.
i do not believe this was a fair test of my command capabilities.
and why not?
because... there was no way to win.
a no-win situation is a possibility every commander may face. has that never occurred to you?
... no, sir. it has not.
how we deal with death is at least as important as how we deal with life, would not you say?
as i indicated, admiral, that thought had not occurred to me.
then you have something new to think about. carry on.
would not it be easier to put an experienced crew back on the ship?
they will learn. galloping about the cosmos is a game for the young, doctor.
i assume you are loitering here to learn what efficiency rating i plan to give your cadets.
i am understandably curious.
they destroyed the simulator room and you with it.
the kobayshi maru scenario frequently wreaks havoc with students and equipment.  as i recall you took the test three times yourself. your final solution was, shall we say, unique?
it had the virtue of never having been tried.
yours was not a solution which would have occurred to a vulcan mentality.
so you said at the time. speaking of which, your protg's first rare -- a trifle emotional --
she is half romulan, jim. the admixture makes her more volatile than -- me, for example.
than you. yes, i see that. by the way, thank you for this.
i know of your fondness for antiques.
'it was the best of times, it was the worst of times...' message, spock?
none of which i am consciously aware -- except, of course, happy birthday -- surely the best of times.
hrummm... and where are you off to, now?
the enterprise. i must check in before your inspection. and you?
home.
do not tell me you have got something.
we have picked up a minor energy flux reading on one dyno scanner.
damn! are you sure? maybe the scanner's out of adjustment --
i suppose it could be a particle of preanimate matter caught in the matrix...
all right, let's get on the comm-pic to doctor marcus. maybe it is something we can transplant.
you know what she will say...
how can you let them pull that stuff on you? they are just lazy.
and bored. i know. but maybe it is something they can...
come on, mother, that is just the military mentality. never put off tomorrow what you can put off today. if there is one atom of life...
i know, i know...
well, do not have kittens. genesis is going to work. they will remember  you in a wreath with newton, einstein, surak...
thanks a lot. no respect from my offspring --
par for the course... you teaming up with me for bridge after dinner?
maybe...
every time we have dealings with starfleet, i get nervous.  we are dealing with something that could be perverted into a dreadful weapon. remember that overgrown boy scout you used to hang out with? that is exactly the --
bless me, doctor; and what beams you into this neck of the woods?
'beware romulans bearing gifts.' happy birthday...
romulan ale! bones, you know this stuff is illegal --
i only use it for medicinal purposes. do not be a pring...
twenty-two, eighty-three...
takes the stuff a while to ferment. gimme.
I am almost afraid to. what did you bring me, contraband klingon --
more antiques for your collection -- cheers!
cheers. bones, these are... charming.
four hundred years old. you do not find many with the lens still intact.
uh -- what are they?
for your eyes. for most patients of your age, i generally administer retlax five to restore flexibility of the lens.
but I am allergic to retlax.
exactly. happy birthday.
slide them down your nose. now look at me over the top. and you read printed matter through the bottom.
amazing! i do not know what to say --
say thank you.
thank you.
damn it, jim, what the hell's the matter? other people have birthdays. why are we treating yours like a funeral?
bones, i do not want to be lectured.
what do you want? damn it, why is not there a girl here? you know this has nothing to do with age. this is about you flying a goddamn computer console when you wanna be out hopping galaxies.
spare me your notions of poetry, please. we all have our assigned duties and...
bull. you are hiding -- hiding behind the rules and regulations --
and who am i hiding from?
from yourself, admiral.
do not mince words, bones; tell me what you really think.
I am your doctor and I am your friend, jim. get back your command. get it back before you really do grow old. before you turn into part of this collection.
are you sure these are the coordinates?
captain, this is the garden spot of ceti alpha vi --
i can hardly see --
you are crazy -- !
i saw it -- !
there is an air-lock.
i told you! i told you i saw a --
ssssh!
botany bay -- oh no!
what is the matter -- ?
but the child --
never mind! hurry!
i do not know you. but you. i never forget a face. mister chekov, is not it?  i never thought to see your face again.
chekov, who is this man?
a criminal, captain -- a product of the late 20th century genetic engineering --
what do you want with us? i demand --
you are in a position to demand nothing, sir. i, on the other hand, am in a position to grant nothing. what you see is all that remains of the ship's company and the crew of the botany bay, marooned here fifteen years ago by captain james t. kirk.
listen to me -- you men and women --
save your strength, captain, these people have sworn to live and die at my command two hundred years before you were born. do you mean he...  ... never told you the tale? to amuse you, captain? never told you how the enterprise picked up the botany bay, lost in space from the year 1996, myself and the ship's company in cryogenic freeze?
I have never even met admiral kirk --
admiral? he did not tell you how admiral kirk sent seventy of us into exile on this barren sand heap with only the contents of these cargo bays to sustain us?
you lie! on ceti alpha v there was life, a fair chance to --
this is ceti alpha v! ceti alpha vi exploded six months after we were left here. the shock shifted the orbit of this planet and everything was laid waste. admiral kirk never bothered to check on our progress. it was only the fact of my genetically engineered intellect that enabled us to survive! on earth, two hundred years ago, i was a prince, with power over millions -- now, like prometheus i have been left by admiral kirk to digest my own entrails.
captain kirk was your host! you repaid his hospitality by trying to steal his ship and murder him.
and I will wager he never told you about his shipmate, the beautiful and courageous lieutenant mcgiver, who gave up everything to join me in exile. out of love. and see how admiral kirk requited her devotion -- she is dead as earth!
khan, listen to me! captain kirk was only doing his duty! you --
there is some pain at first, i am told, and then the effects are quite benign -- until the end. that was what i learned from watching my wife.
i really must thank you.
i am delighted; any chance to go aboard enterprise, however briefly, is always an excuse for nostalgia.
i cut your new orders personally. by the end of the month, you will have your first command: uss excelsior.
thank you, sir. I have looked forward to this for a long time.
you have earned it. but I am still grateful to have you at the helm for three weeks. i do not believe these kids can steer.
permission to come aboard, captain?
welcome aboard, admiral. i believe you know my trainee crew. certainly they have come to know you.
yes, we have been through death and life together.
mr. scott, you old space dog. you are well?
i had me a wee bout -- but dr. mccoy pulled me through.
oh? a wee bout of what, mr. scott?
shore leave, admiral.
ah.
and who is this?
midshipman first class peter preston, engineers mate, sir.
your first training voyage, mr. preston?
yes, sir.
i see. well, shall we start with the engine room?
he is not what i expected, sir.
what did you expect, lieutenant?
he is very human.
we can not all be perfect, saavik. you must control your prejudices and remember that as a vulcan as well as a romulan you are forever a stranger in an alien land. around you are humans, and as a member of the starfleet you are unlikely ever to escape their presence or their influence. you must learn to tolerance in addition to all else i have taught you. tolerance is logical.
i believe you will find everything shipshape, admiral.
oh do you? have you any idea, midshipman preston, how many times I have had to listen to mr. scott on the comm, telling me his troubles? have you any idea the ribbing I have had to endure in the officers' mess to the effect that the enterprise is a flying death trap?
oh, no, sir! this is the finest engine room in the whole star --
midshipman, you are a tiger.
my sister's youngest, admiral. crazy to get to space.
every young boy's fancy. i seem to remember it myself.  very well. mr. scott, are your engines capable of handling a minor training cruise?
give the word, admiral.
mr. scott, the word is given.
aye, sir.
what about the rest of the inspection, admiral?
the inspection will continue once we are underway, doctor.
very well, mr. saavik, clear all moorings.
aye, sir.
all moorings are clear, captain.
thank you, mr. saavik.
lieutenant, how many times have you piloted a starship out of spacedock?
never, sir.
take her out, mr. saavik.
aye, sir.
there is a first time for everything, admiral.
to be sure, captain.
aft thrusters, mr. sulu.
aft thrusters, sir.
we are clear and free to navigate.
course heading, captain?
steady on course. all systems normal.
it is not much different from enterprise.  when i was a guest aboard her some years ago, captain kirk kindly allowed me to memorize her technical manuals. and now, mr. chekov, let us review: you say you have no details of project 'genesis' ?
beyond what i told you, sir, it is classified information.
umm. and would admiral kirk have access to such information?
i would think so, sir. he is on the fleet general staff.
then to whom do you report directly regarding genesis?
to doctor marcus, the civilian director of the experiments on space laboratory regula i.
i see. helmsman?
does that about do it?
i do not think there is another piece of information we could squeeze into the memory banks. next time, we will design a bigger one.
who --
... come in, please. this is reliant calling regula i. repeat. this is uss reliant --
commander, we are receiving. this is regula i. go ahead.
dr. marcus... good. we are en route to you and should be there in three days.
en route? why? we were not expecting you for another three months. has something happened?  has something happened? do you read us?
all went well. nothing has happened. ceti alpha vi has checked out.
i still do not under --
we have received new orders. upon our arrival at regula i, all materials of project genesis will be transferred to this ship for immediate testing at ceti alpha vi.
will you please be quiet!  commander chekov, this is completely irregular. who gave the order you are quoting? who gave the order?
the order comes from starfleet command, dr. marcus, direct from the general staff.
but genesis is a civilian project, under my control --
i have my orders.
this is completely improper, commander chekov. i have no intention of allowing reliant or any other unauthorized personnel access to our work or materials.
I am sorry you feel that way, doctor. admiral kirk's orders are confirmed. please prepare to deliver genesis to us upon our arrival. reliant out.
well done, commander.
you realize, sir, that they will attempt to contact admiral kirk and confirm the order.
will you please be quiet! we must have order here.  this has to be some sort of mistake.
mistake? we are all alone here. they waited until everyone was on shift-leave to do this. reliant is supposed to be at our disposal, not vice-versa.
I have tried to warn you. scientists are always pawns of the military --
starfleet has kept the peace for a hundred years, i cannot and will not subscribe to your interpretation of this event.
lieutenant, are you wearing your hair differently?
it is still regulation, admiral.
may i speak, sir?
lieutenant, self-expression does not seem to be one of your problems.
i wish to thank you for the high efficiency rating.
you earned it.
i did not think so.
you are bothered by your performance on the kobayashi maru.
i failed to resolve the situation.
there is no correct resolution. it is a test of character.
may i ask how you dealt with the test?
you may ask, lieutenant.
that was a little joke.
humor... that is a difficult concept ... it is not logical...
we learn by doing, lieutenant.
yes.
take the test again.
kirk here.
i have an urgent commpic from space lab regula i for the admiral. dr. carol marcus.
in my quarters, uhura.
yes, sir.
it never rains but when it pours --
as a physician you of all people should appreciate the danger of re-opening old wounds.
uhura. can not you augment?
I am trying, sir. stand by...
jim... read me? can you read me?
message breaking up, carol. what is wrong? what is wrong?
... can not read you... repeat...
repeat... what is wrong? what is wrong?
... taking genesis away from us...
taking genesis? who? who is taking genesis?
... see you but can not hear. did you... order...?
what order? who is taking genesis?
... please help us, jim... will not let them have... without proper... repeat... on whose authority...
carol!
jim please --
uhura! what is happening? damn it...
transmission jammed at the source, sir.
damn. alert starfleet headquarters. i want to talk with starfleet command.
stop engines.
stop engines.
an emergency situation has arisen. by order of starfleet command, as of now, 1800 hours, i am assuming command of this vessel. duty officer so note in the ship's log. plot a new course: for space laboratory regula i.  mr. scott?
aye, sir.
we will be going to warp speed --
aye, sir --
course plotted for regula i, admiral...
engage warp engines --
prepare for warp speed.
ready, sir.
something may be wrong at regula i. we have been ordered to investigate.
regula i is a scientific research laboratory, if memory serves...
i told starfleet all we had was a boatload of children but we are the only ship in the quadrant. spock: those cadets of yours -- how good are they? how will they respond under real pressure?
like all living beings, admiral each according to his gifts. the ship is yours.
that will not be necessary: just take me to regula i.
excuse my presumption, but i do not agree. as a teacher on a training mission, i am content to command a starship. if we are to go on actual duty, it is clear that the senior officer aboard must assume command.
but it may be nothing; garbled communications. why do not you...
you proceed from a false assumption. i am a vulcan. i have no ego to bruise.
you are going to remind me that logic alone dictates your actions.
i was going to remind you of nothing, least of all that which you know well.  your mistake, if i may be so bold, was promotion. commanding a starship is your first best destiny. anything else is a waste of material.
i would not presume to debate you.
that is wise. in any case, were i to invoke logic, logic clearly dictates that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.
or the one.
will you accompany me to the bridge?
I would best talk with mr. scott, first so that he may, in his own words, explain the situation to his cadets.
there are two possibilities, sir they are unwilling to respond, they are unable to respond.
how far?
twelve hours and forty-three minutes, present speed.
give up genesis, she said. what in god's name does that mean? give it up to whom?
it might help my analysis if i knew what genesis was.
I have got the sick bay ready. will someone please tell me what is going on?
computer. request security procedure and access to project genesis summary.
carol marcus --
yes.
wait --
stage one of our experiments was conducted in the labora- tory. stage two of the series will be attempted in a lifeless underground; stage three will involve the process on a plane- tary scale. what follows is a computer projected simulation of stage three. please watch closely.
it literally is genesis...
the power of creation --
have they proceeded with their experiments?
the tape was made a year ago. i can only assume they have reached phase two by now --
but dear lord, are we intelligent enough to -- suppose, this thing were used where life already exists?
it would destroy such life in favor of its new matrix --
it is new -- have you any idea what you are saying?
i was not attempting to evaluate its moral implications, doctor. as a matter of cosmic history, it has always been easier to destroy than to create --
not anymore! now you can do both at the same time! according to myth, the earth was created in six days. watch out: here comes genesis; we will do it for you in six minutes --
i do not dispute that in the wrong hands --
would you like to tell me whose are the right hands, my cold-blooded friend? are you in favor of these experiments?
gentlemen, this is not --
really, dr. mccoy; you cannot ban the acquisition of knowledge because you distrust the moral implications of what you learn. logic suggests --
what is she doing here?
chekov's on reliant, is not he?
she is not responding...
try the emergency channels...
enterprise to reliant. come in, reliant.
picture, mr. saavik.
is it possible their comm system has failed -- ?
it would explain a great many things --
they are requesting visual communications, sir.
let them eat static.
they are still running with shields down.
of course. we are one big happy fleet. ah, kirk, my old friend, do you know the klingon proverb that tells us revenge is a dish that is best served cold?  it is very cold in space.
reliant in our section this quadrant, sir, and slowing --
visual.
sir, may i quote general order 12: 'on the approach of any vessel, when communications have not been est --
lieutenant, the admiral is aware of the regulations.
aye, sir.
this is damned peculiar.  yellow alert.
energize defense fields.
I am getting a voice message... wait ... short range band. they say their chambers coil is shorting their comm system.
spock?
careful: not all at once. the engine room. lock on target and prepare to fire.
locking phasers on target.
their coil emissions are normal... wait: their shields are going up. they are locking phasers -- !
raise shields! energize phasers, stand by to --
mr. sulu... the shields!
trying, sir!
i can not get power, sir!
scotty!
mr. scott on discrete.
scotty, let's have it.
they knew just where to hit us.
who? who knew just where to hit us? and why?
one thing is certain; we cannot escape on auxiliary power.
visual!  mr. sulu, divert everything to the phasers --
too late --
scotty -- what is left?
just the batteries, sir. i can have auxiliary power in a few minutes --
we do not have minutes. can you give me phaser power?
a few shots, sir.
not enough against their shields.
who the hell are they?
on screen.
admiral --
do it, while we have time.
khan!
who?
you still remember, admiral. i cannot help but be touched. of course, i remember you.
what is the meaning of this attack? where is the crew of the reliant?
surely i have made my meaning plain. i mean to avenge myself upon you, admiral. I have deprived your ship of power and when i swing round i mean to deprive you of your life --
-- but i wanted you to know first who it was who had beaten you: i, khan noonian singh, the eagle you attempted to cage forever.
khan, listen to me -- if its me you want, I will have myself beamed aboard. all i ask is that you spare my crew.
that is a most intriguing offer. typical, i must say of your sterling character. let me think.
genesis, what is that?
do not play with me, kirk, my hand is on the phaser control --
give me some time to recall the data on our computers --
i give you sixty seconds, admiral.
admiral, you can not give him genesis...
at least we know he has not got it. just keep nodding as though I am giving orders. saavik, punch up the data charts of reliant's command console -- hurry...
reliant's command...
hurry.
the prefix code?
it is all we have got.
on screen...
we are finding it.  please, please -- you have got to give us time -- the bridge is smashed, computers inoperative...
you have got to learn why things work on a starship.  it is coming through now, khan...
the prefix code is 16309. all commands from each starship bridge are relayed electronically; each ship has its own prefix combination code...
thirty seconds...
... to prevent an enemy from doing just what we are attempting; using our console to tap in a message, an order to lower reliant's damn shields...
let's hope he has not changed the combination. he is quite intelligent...
wait for my signal, spock -- too soon and he will have time to figure it out and raise them again.
khan, how do i know you will keep your word?
I have given you no word to keep, admiral. in my judgment, you simply have no alternative.
i take your point. stand by to receive our transmission.
mr. sulu, lock phasers on target and await my command...
phasers locked...
time's up, admiral...
here it comes. now, spock.
sir -- our shields are dropping!
raise them --
they will not --
where's the over-ride??
at them! at them! fire! fire! why can not you?
we can not fire, sir; they have damaged the photon controls and the warp drive. we must withdraw!
no!
sir, we must!  we must repair the damage. enterprise will wait; she is not going anywhere.
sir, you did it.
i did nothing -- except get caught with my britches down. i must be senile. mr. saavik, you just keep right on quoting regulations. meantime, let's find out what the hell is going on and see how bad we have been --
is the word given?
the word is given: warp speed.
aye...
why?
he wants to kill me for passing sentence on him 14 years ago -- and he does not care who stands between him and his vengeance.
if he hadn't, we would be space by now.
admiral, this is spock.
yes, spock.
engine room reports auxiliary power restored. we can proceed at impulse power.
best speed to regula i. kirk out. scotty, I have got to ask: any chance of getting the mains back on the line?
doctors lose patients sometimes. damn. I am still in the dark: how did he know about genesis?
at the moment that question takes a back seat to preventing him from laying his hands on it. you said it yourself; we are talking about a bang that would re-arrange the universe...
there may still be time... you gave as good as you got.
i got beat. we are only alive because i knew something about these ships that he didn't.
approaching regula and space lab regula i.
try again.
... no response, sir.
sensors, captain?
scanners and sensors still inoperative. there is no way to tell what is  inside the station.
and no way of knowing if reliant is still in the area...
affirmative, admiral.
... blind as a tiberian bat. what do you make of the plantoid beyond?
regula is class "d'. it consists of various remarkable ores. essentially, a great rock in space.
reliant could be hiding behind that rock.
a distinct possibility.
engine room... scotty, do we have enough power for the transporters?
just barely, sir.
I am going down to the station.
khan could be down there!
he is been there and has not found what he wants. can you spare someone? there may be people hurt.
i can spare me...
begging the admiral's pardon: general order 15: 'no  flag officer shall beam into a hazardous area without armed escort.'
there is no such regulation.
all right, join the party. mr. spock, the ship is yours.
aye sir --
establish a parking orbit around the station and send me a complete damage report when you have talked with mr. scott.
be careful, jim...
indeterminate life signs.
phasers on stun. move out.
they even killed the galley chief.
this one looks like a steward. they are not warm, but rigor has not set in. this did not happen all that long ago, jim.
saavik, for god's sake, tell her we are all right.
i say again. this is enterprise. please acknowledge signal. please --
that is true, admiral. all the memory cells have been emptied.
erased...
he left us.  we were no longer of use. saavik where is  the reliant crew? dead?
marooned on ceti alpha v. he is completely mad, admiral. he blames you for the death of his wife...
it does not make sense. these coordinates are well within regula -- a plantoid we know to be lifeless and airless.
if stage two was completed, it was underground -- she said it was going to be underground.
stage two of what?
kirk to enterprise. damage report, spock?
admiral, if we go by the book, like lieutenant saavik, hours could seem like days.
i read you, captain. let's have it.
meaning you can not even beam us back?
not at present.
captain spock, if you do not hear from us within one hour your orders are to restore what power you can, take the enterprise to the nearest star base and alert starfleet command when you are out of jamming range.
sir -- we will not leave you behind...!
uhura, if you do not hear from us, there will not be anybody behind. kirk out.  you gentleman can remain here, or...
go? where are we going?
where they went. saavik.
but what if they went -- nowhere?
then this will be your big chance to get away from it all.
I am admiral kirk...
we were still there, you dumb bastard! we could hear the screams all the way to the transporter room --
where is dr. marcus --
I am doctor marcus!
david --
mother, go back!
jim --
go back. I am going to kill him.
you do that and you will have murdered your father.
why did not you tell me?
she is making it up! my father was professor --
captain... we are waiting. what is the delay?
all is well, sir. you have the coordinates to beam up genesis...
first things first, captain. kill admiral kirk.
kirk! kirk, you are still alive -- my old friend...
still, 'old friend.' you have managed to kill just about everyone else, but like a poor marksman, you keep missing the target.
perhaps i no longer need to try.
let go -- he can not -- !
only half of you would get there.
goodbye, admiral. oh, and do not count on enterprise. she can not move. my next act will be to blow her out of the heavens.
khan!
well?
warp drive still inoperative. all other systems should be restored shortly.
so are we, it looks like.
i do not understand. who is responsible for all this? who is khan?
it is a long story.
we appear to have plenty of time.
do you have anything to eat? i do not know about anyone else, but I am starved.
how can you think of food at a time like this?
our first order of business is survival.
this? it took the starfleet corps of engineers ten months in space suits to tunnel out all this. what we did in there -- we did in a day. david, why do not you show dr. mccoy and the lieutenant our idea of food.
but we can not just sit here -- !
david. please.
this is just to give us something to do, is not it?  come on.
admiral?
as your teacher mr. spock is fond of saying: i like to think there always are possibilities.
david was right, was not he? it is just to keep them busy.
why? why did not you tell me?
how can you ask me that? were we together? where we going to be? you had your world and i had mine. i wanted him in mine, not chasing through the universe with his father.
you did this -- in a day?!
the matrix formed in a day. the life forms grew later -- at a wildly accelerated rate. can i cook or can not i?
departing dark side, regula.
visual --
what are you looking at?
the admiral's son.
do not you believe it.
oh, i believe it.
what are you looking at?
i do not know.
now that is what i call a meal.
it is like the garden of eden...
what is on your mind, lieutenant?
the kobayashi maru, sir.
are you asking me if we are playing out that scenario now, lieutenant?
on the test, sir, will you tell me what you did? I would really like to know.
lieutenant, you are looking at the only starfleet cadet who ever beat the no-win scenario --
and almost got tossed out of the academy...
how?
i reprogrammed the simulation so it was possible to rescue the ship.
what?
i changed the conditions of the test. i received a commendation for original thinking.  i do not like to lose.
then -- you never faced that situation -- faced death...
until now.
we each face death every day we are alive, saavik.
spock, this is kirk. it is two hours. are you about ready?
right on schedule, admiral. just give us your coordinates and we will beam you aboard.
but the damage report -- we were immobilized...
come, come, lieutenant, you of all people go by the book. hello, spock. you remember dr. marcus...
certainly...
by the book...
regulation 46-a: 'if transmissions are being monitored during battle...'
'... no uncoded messages on an open channel...'
you lied.
i exaggerated.
hours instead of days, saavik; now we have minutes instead of hours --
I am taking this bunch to sick bay.
what is working around here?
not much, admiral. we have partial main power...
that is it?
best we could do in two hours.
admiral on the bridge --
battle stations.
uh oh.
she can out-run us and out-gun us. but there is the mutara nebula at 153 mark four.
scotty, can we make it inside?
the energizer's bypassed like a christmas tree -- so do not give me too many bumps.
no promises, mr. scott. on your way.
i think we can guarantee she will follow us, mr. saavik. remind me to explain to you the concept of human ego.
best speed, scotty...
estimating nebula penetration in two minutes. reliant is closing.
steady as you go...
we will lose them if they go in there.
rake her.
that was close --
they just do not want us going in there.
admiral, they are reducing speed.
uhura, patch me in --
no sir! we have genesis -- whatever you want --
full power damn you!
tactical!
inoperative.
raise the shields...
phaser lock inoperative, sir.
best guess, mr. sulu. fire when ready.
hold your course. look sharp...
at what.
yours... is... the superior...
i shall avenge you --
admiral, I have got to take the mains off the line. the energizer's shaken loose and i can not get in there to fix her -- radiation --
all right, we will do the job with auxiliary power.
sporadic energy readings port side, aft. could be an impulse turn.
he will not break off now. if he followed me this far he will be back. but from where...?
he is intelligent, but not experienced. his pattern indicates two dimensional thinking...
mr. saavik, all stop.
all stop, sir.
descend ten thousand meters. stand by photon torpedoes.
cease fire. look sharp.
power levels quite low, sir.
mr. scott, can you get the mains back on line?
I will need ten minutes, sir, 'til the radiation dissipates.
uhura, send to commander, reliant: prepare to be boarded.
enterprise to reliant: you are ordered to surrender your vessel. respond!  nothing, sir.
we will beam aboard. alert transporter room --
it is the genesis wave!
what?
he is on a build up to detonation!
how soon --
we encoded four minutes --
we will beam aboard and stop it --
you can't!
saavik, get us out, best speed!
aye, sir.
are you out of your vulcan mind? no human can tolerate the radiation loose in there!
but, as you are so fond of observing, doctor, I am not human.
you are not going in there -- !
I am afraid i can not stop to discuss this logically --
time from my mark...
two minutes, ten seconds.
engine room! what is happening?!
time!
three minutes, thirty seconds.
distance from reliant...
no, sir! you will flood the whole compartment...!
he will die -- !
spock!
the ship -- out of danger?
yes --
... the good of the few...
or the one.
i never took the kobayashi maru test -- until now. what do you think of my solution?
spock...!
i have been -- and always will be -- your friend... live. long. and. prosper.
we commend the soul of our brother departed. we love we commit his body to the depths of space.
honors -- hup!
after you dismiss the company, you will take the watch. set course for ceti alpha v and we will pick up survivors.
aye, sir.
I will be in my quarters if needed, but i would prefer...
understood, sir.
dismiss the company.
i do not mean to intrude.
uh, no...  i should be on the bridge.
are you running away from me?
i suppose i was.  i poured a drink. would you like it?
no. i -- i guess I am not what you expected.
i did not expect anything.
that makes two of us.  lieutenant saavik was right: you never have faced death --
not like this -- no. i have not faced death, i cheated death. i tricked my way out of death and patted myself on the back for my ingenuity. i know nothing.
you knew enough to tell saavik that how we face death is at least as important as how we face life --
it was just words.
but good words. that is where ideas begin. maybe you should listen to them.
I am trying, david.
so am i. my friends were killed, too.
i am truly sorry.
i was wrong about you. and i'm sorry.
is that what you came here to say?
mainly.  and also that I am proud -- very proud -- to be your son.
admiral on the bridge!
as you were, mr. saavik.
aye, sir. on course to ceti alpha. all is well.
good, i believe you already know my, uh, son --
yes, well, why do not you show him around and...
aye, sir --
it is a far far better thing i do than i have ever done before... a far better resting place i go to than i have ever known...
is that a poem?
something spock was trying to tell me. on my birthday.
you okay, jim? how do you feel?
young. i feel young, doctor.
