of course, where you been kid?
you look great!  the uniform and everything!
that is no battle, kid... they are just sitting there!
but there was a lot of firing earlier...
enough!  i already know about the data you have intercepted, but its' too late.  whatever information you have gathered will be destroyed... you will come to know such suffering as only the master of the bogan force can provide...
you will get no information from me. you have no authority... the council can not hold me!
it appears your ship had an accident. i will see to it that your death is duely reported.  there will be no one to save you this time.
I will tell you, luke, and this is between you and me.  the star force is not all it is cracked up to be. frankly, it is a bore, and it is going to stay that way as long as this system is neutral...
but you always said things were so great at the academy... what happened?
the academy is fantastic... of course, they will not teach you anything about flying you do not already know.  most of the instructors are very conservative pilots.  you can fly circles around them... but there is a lot on the scientific side that is down-right amazing, and you get a lot of discipline... but after you graduate, do not join the star force -- go free-lance.  it is the only way to get into the action... i can not wait until my hitch is up.
at least you are doing something... I would give anything to be in your position.
just be warned, that things are not always as they seem... especially the starforce recruiting posters.
first thing tomorrow morning you are going to check those condensing units on the south ridge.
i will, but I will have enough time to transmit my application first.
you will check the condensing unit first... and you are not going to bed until those 'droids' are completely cleaned up...
but you promised!  I have saved enough money and now you have the extra help ... you promised!
i said we would see.  and as it is, i was forced to borrow your academy savings to buy the new 'droids.'  when you have saved it up again, I will let you go.
you used my savings!  you stole my savings.  if my father were here...
your father's dead.  do not ever forget who is taking care of you, giving you food, giving you shelter, and giving you the allowance in the first place. if you plan to work at the academy the way you work around here, you will not last very long.  i do not want another word.  finish your dinner, then finish cleaning those 'droids.'
not unless you could get me into the military academy at anchorhead.
I am sorry, sir, I am only a 'droid,' and not very knowledgeable of such things... not on this system anyway. as a matter of fact, I am not even sure which system we are on.
that is all right.  there is nothing anyone can do about it.  you can call me luke.
thank you, sir.  I am see threepio, human cyborg relations, and this is my counterpart, artoo detoo.
there is a lot of carbon scoring here. it looks like you boys have seen a lot of action...
indeed, sir, sometimes I am amazed we are in as good shape as we are, what with the rebellion and all...
you have been in the counter wars?... against the empire?
that is how we came to be in your service, if you take my meaning...
tell me where you have been.  i am going to become a startrooper and fight in the wars.  my father was a jedi!  were you in many battles?
several, i think.  there is not much to tell.  I am not much more than an interpreter, and not very good at telling stories, not at making them interesting anyway...
according to my father's tapes, this is the spot where general kenobi lives, but the instruments just do not match up with the landscape... there is no doubt about it, we are lost...
if you do not mind my saying so, sir, i do not see how anyone could live in this forsaken place.
well, i do not know what to do now. we will just have to head inland and see if we can not find a settlement.
good morning!
what do you mean, 'good morning'? do you mean that it is a good morning for you, or do you wish me a good morning, although it is obvious I am not having one, or do you find that mornings in general are good?
all of them altogether. you seem to have gotten yourself into a fine mess!  what happened?
sorry, but that was the only way to get you down.
could not we have tried to think of something else first!
you are lucky those tuskens did not boil you before they hung you out to dry.  they are not the friendly sort. you would best be moving on before they come back.
what happened?  I am sorry, sir, i must have taken a bad step...
can you stand?  we have got to get out of here before those tuskens come back.
i can not make it.  you go on, master luke.  it does not make sense for you to risk yourself on my account.  I am done for.
no, you are not.  what kind of talk is that...
I am luke starkiller, guardian of the bendu.
oh, so you are a warrior then?
of course.  I am a bendu officer.
who are you anyway?
you might say I am part of the landscape here.  they call me ben kenobi.
you are general kenobi?!?  the jedi knight!  the commander of the white legions?
I am afraid it is been a long time since the white legions roamed the stars.  but i have the memories.
i do not see why.  i do not believe we have ever met.
i am the son of annikin starkiller.
i know who you are.  stand up so that we can talk properly.  you are embarrassing me.  I am not that important.
but you are... i know your 'diary of the clone wars' by heart.  my father...
i... I am not a bendu officer.  I am not even a startrooper.
i know that.
you saw through me?
you could put it that way.
i assure you my intentions were not bad.
i know your intentions.  i probably know much more about you than you realize.  in many ways you are a lot like your father.  he was an indulgent man, but a clever warrior.  now what brings you out here?
my father told me many stories about you.  he said if i was ever in trouble, to come here... i need your help.
I am afraid I have gotten too old for this sort of thing.
but you must!  i can not do it alone. I am not at all like my father.  I would never make it.
i already know you think you are worthless.  i recommend you learn to think of yourself in a better light, for what you believe you are is what you become.  i have not been involved in anything like this for many years.
but the sith lords are involved! whatever information this r-2 unit is carrying, it must be awfully important.  they are probably looking for him... I am no match for the sith. this is a jedi's work.  this is your responsibility!
not any more!
you were right.  it is my responsibility.  the force of others brought the message to you and then it brought you to me.
my father used to talk about the force of others.  but he never told me what it was...
let's just say the force is something a jedi warrior deals with.  it is an energy field in oneself, a power that controls ones acts, yet obeys ones commands.  it is nothing, yet it makes marvels appear before your very eyes. all living things generate this force field, even you.
you mean i generate an energy field?
it surrounds you and radiates from you.  a jedi can feel it flowing from him...  ... from here!
could i learn to feel it?
that is not a human decision, not your or mine.
what do you mean?
it means you would better get some rest. we will be leaving for mos eisley first thing in the morning.  the trip will be difficult and dangerous, but it is the only spaceport with ships large enough to get us to organa major.  now go on!
luke, I am coming along to do what i can, but I am tired and I am depending on you to get us through.
but you are still a powerful jedi. you do not need my help.
a jedi's power is measured by the amount of the force that is stored within him, and i have little of the force left in me.
how can you store an energy field within you?
when a creature dies, the force it generated remains.  the force is all around us.  it can be collected and transmitted through the use of a kiber crystal.  it is the only way to amplify the power of the force within you.
do not you have a kiber crystal?
i had one, but it was taken at the battle of condawn...
that is where my father was killed.
yes.  it was a black day.  one of my disciple's took the crystal and became a sith lord.  it was a black day.  the few crystals that remain are in the possession of the sith lords on alderaan.  that is how they have become so powerful.
do the sith know the ways of the force?
they use the bogan force.
like bogan weather, or bogan times. i thought that was just a saying.
there are two halves of the force of others.  one is positive and will help you if you learn how to use it.  but the others half will kill you if you are not careful.  this negative side of the force is called the bogan, which is where the expression came from, and it is the part that is used by the dark lords to destroy their opponents.  both halves are always present.  the force is on your right, the bogan is on your left.  the kiber crystal can amplify either one.  the crystal darth stole was the last one in the possession of the jedi.  when he joined the sith, the power of the dark lords was completed.
I am han solo, captain of this vessel.  who is in charge then?
I am ben kenobi.  luke starkiller here is leading our expedition.
organa major is a rebel system. there will be quite a few starfleet patrols between here and there... it could be a little tricky if you want to avoid them... ten thousand.
that is pretty steep.  we would like to talk it over first.
we do not have that kind of money. how much do you think i can get for the speeder?
five, maybe.  let me handle it.
you got yourself a ship.  we can leave as soon as you are ready.
we have a little business to take care of first, but it should not take long. we will be back shortly.
i think we are going to need them. blast it!
sir, i have a couple of extra circuits.  perhaps they might bring something.
well, ask him.  tell him we need five thousand.
this is the last place.  should not we just take what we can get and think of something else?
he is bluffing...
when we get artoo's message to them, you think they will try to rescue the princess?
i doubt it.  it would be foolish for the rebel forces to come out of hiding. i know your feelings.  you would best forget them.  it is for your own good. there will be no saving her from the prisons of alderaan.  it is the heart of the sith.  the bogan force is the most heavy there.
but she is a member of the twelve families.  how can they hold her?
these are doubtful times.  the empire has grown bold in its disregard of the...
what is wrong?  what is happening?
keep away, I am fine, I am fine.
are you all right?
yes... the force... something horrible has happened.  i could not see what it was, or where it was, but it was terrible... terrible beyond description... the cry of millions dying at once.
the 'death star' has become operational.  there is no force in the universe that can stop us now.
they will find its weakness.
it is too late... we already tested it on organa major.  it appears your data never got through.
no!...
it would be much easier if you were to tell us where the outposts are... otherwise we will be forced to destroy every suspicious system... what a waste...
who is the pilot?
it is automatic.
let him have it.  you are winning anyway.  it does not make any difference.
i know, sir, but it is the principle of the thing.
are you sure you do not need it?
i rarely use it any more.  i have the force.  the force is more powerful than any pistol.  you should not put too much faith in that weapon.  work on becoming aware of the force... learn to feel its presence within you.  try to sense what it is telling you.  it is the only thing you can rely on.
what do i do?
all you have to do is lose your thinking self.  do not focus on anything.  let your body do your thinking... you have to learn to act on what you feel, not what you think ... if i had the crystal, it would be much easier.  you could feel the force immediately... but for now, let yourself go.  you will pick it up... and someday you will have no need for that pistol either.
I would keep that thing close just in case, if i were you... I have been around from one end of the galaxy to the other and believe me this force of others stuff may make for good religion, but there is no substitute for a good weapon at your side.
you do not believe in the force?
sorcery!  i believe in myself... i determine my destiny, not some mystical energy field.
well, we will see...
you might get your stuff together. we will be coming up on organa major soon.
what is it?
he can not find organa major.
i found it... it is just not there.
what are you saying?
the empire must have gotten here first.
the planet has been totally blown away!  it would have taken a thousand ships with a lot more fire power than I have ever seen... if the empire had a new weapon that could do this... i would have heard something... I would know about it.
well, now you know... the enemy is on the move.  we have not much time.
well, I have brought you here.  what now?
we have to find he rebels... what we are carrying belongs to them.
their bases are very well hidden. all the power of the empire can not find them... do you know where they are?
no, not anymore.
I am not taking you on an impossible search across the galaxy... i was only paid to get you here and now you are here.  I will take my other five thousand and you are on your own... I will leave you on the nearest system.
you can't!  we have come this far.  we must find them...
why?
well, for one reason, we do not have your other five thousand.
who is going to pay me then?
i think there are some things we should talk about.
I am beginning not to like you.
how much do you think she is talking about?
a million at least... if this robot has information related to the destruction of organa major, you will be able to name the reward...
anything i want!  now that is interesting.
maybe you should just drop us off. I am sure we can find someone willing to take the risk.
all right, all right! you have got a ship!  but where do we go from here?  they probably took her to find the hidden bases... i do not see how we can find the rebels before she breaks.  the empire has already beat us out.
but she is the only link between us and the hidden bases.
you mean we should go after her!...
i did not say that, but it appears to be a logical alternative.
no, it is impossible... no one, and i mean no one would venture anywhere near the alderaan system... I am a free booter, not revolutionary.  you are aboard the wrong ship, son!
maybe the fact that no one would go there voluntarily could help us. they probably do not think anyone would dare try.
do not you believe it.
luke's got a point... ... fear is their greatest defense... i doubt if the actual security there is much greater than on aquilae or sullust, and what there is is most likely directed toward large-scale assault.
this is not a game, you know.
kid, you take the glory and the good intentions and I will take the reward.
fear is their greatest weapon.
I am not afraid of anything...
you have your father's style.  you have done very well.
not bad.
well, i practice a lot...
you are good with 'remotes,' but how are you against something living?
i do not know... I have never fought anyone.
i can not see!  how can i fight?
try to feel it.  use the force...
i can not do it.  I will get hit.
stop thinking, and start feeling. let yourself go.
see, once you let yourself go you can do it.  you will get it.
i do not get it, but i guess i did block it.
we are into the second perimeter. they will be coming out to blast us shortly.  i was wondering if you had some kind of a plan or are we going to try to blast our way in?
check your data banks for all the information you have on imperial procedures.  both of you will have to learn...
we are going to get in by studying imperial procedures?  i do not like it.
all right then, we will use your plan.
I will get the information.
... and i want you to start cleaning the equipment out of the scan- shielded compartments.
what do you want with our scan-proof lockers?
no reply on any circuits... it is drifting on a point twenty-seven skew.  it is not close enough to identify.
alert squad five, but hold them until we know what it is.
should we alert the sith lords?
I will make a report later.
as close as we can make out, it appears to be a corellian gypsy vessel... it is not under power.
send one squad up.
we do not get many visitors.  let's take a look at it.
send out a boarding party.  full assault gear.
darth vader is on this system.  i can feel him.  i can feel the kiber crystal.
is that good or bad?
it is not good... unless i could find the crystal.  then it could be very good.
what about the princess?
you go after the princess. i am an old man and would be of little help.  i must try to find the crystal.
I am not going alone!
do not look at me.  I am just a pilot. i got you here... you have got to do the rest.
there is a greater risk in staying here, you know.  if you do not find the princess, then the whole trip was for nothing... was not it?
I am not going out there.
between his howling and your blasting everything in sight, the entire city is going to know we are here.
good!  i prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.
level five, detention block a-23, cell 2187.  she is still alive...
send feed-back into the control sensors in that detention block.
that is straight through the central core... up toward the top of the city... once you have got her, avoid the main transports, they will shut down immediately.  your only chance is through the service shafts. there are no sensors there... all right now, get going, you do not have time.  i hope you can remember everything.
we will be back before you are, old man.
may the force be with you.
this is not going to work.
why did not you say so before.
i think i did.
a wookiee broke loose up here, but we have subdued him... there is a lot of damage, and three, no four, casualties...
we will send a squad up.
no need, everything's under control.
with four casualties?!
the... ah door's jammed.  give us a few minutes to get it fixed.
who is this?  what is your operating...
something has happened to them. let's try this way...
let's try this way!  holy maker.
see threepio, come in, see threepio. i wonder where they are??  see threepio...
i think she is going to be all right.
not if this tunnel deadends.
what is it?  what is going on?  where are we?
you are safe.  we have come to get you out of here... just relax.
is he afraid of the water?
no, he smells something... but we have not time to worry about it now.
watch it!  move back.
get chewbacca.  try to get around it. I will draw it away.
it is only light that does not affect it.  solid things, like rocks, can hurt it!  fire above him!
move out of the way!
i am luke starkiller at your service.
there'll be time for that later. now let's get out of here.
see threepio... do you copy?
i read you sir.
you are back.  what happened?  never mind.  what is going on?
I am afraid we are not plugged in at the moment, sir.  we have had some problems.
are you safe?
for the moment.  we are in the main hangar.  artoo is trying to plug into the system now.
good.  we are right above you.  stand by.
get to the ship!
come back here... where are you going?
wait a minute, slow down!... that is better.  they are where?  they what? they are?  oh, no! we are going to be mashed into conduit before this is over...
see threepio!  do you copy?
put that thing away or you are going to get us all killed.
yes, your highness. I will let you open it then.  it will not be too long before they figure out what happened to us.  this has turned into a brilliant escape!
it could be worse...
holy maker, threepio.  i forgot...
are you there, sir?  we are going...
threepio!  shut down all garbage mashers on your level... do you copy?? threepio, shut down all garbage...
here come six more... grid two!
was this trip really necessary?
there are only three or four left.
chewbacca, it is time we showed them this is not the regulation f8-88 cargo trawler.
all the data banks in artoo are still secure.
then i think we are due the reward you offered... and it had better be substantial after what we have been through.
when artoo has been safely delivered to my forces, you get your reward. you have my guarantee.
what is that little 'droid' carrying that is so blasted important?
the plans and specifications to a battle station with enough fire power to destroy an entire system... our only hope in destroying it is to find its weakness, which we will determine from the data i stored in artoo.
we captured the plans in a raid on the imperial shipyards, but we fell under attack before i could get the data to safety, so i hid it in this artoo unit and sent him off.
where are you taking us now anyway?
the fourth moon of yavin.  I have given the coordinates to chewbacca.
I would better go see how he is doing.
are there medical facilities on yavin?
he will be well cared for.
i do not pick up any life form concentration down there.  she would better be right.
they must be shielded somehow.  I am sure the base is there.
well, if it is not, we will be facing that death star all by our lonesome.
i do not see how we are going to find anything out here.  this terrain is hopeless.
did it occur to you they might find us?
we must hurry to the base.  we have little time before the death star arrives.
I would like to get paid before that eventually.  i do not plan to stick around for the fireworks.
what about us?  are we to wait forever?  is our reward to be blown to bits on this forsaken system, while your fleet mounts some suicidal attack on that death star? part of my reward is that i be around to spend it.
i have little time for your mercenary concerns, but i am grateful for the service you have given to our cause.  what is your price?
and you?
i... i do not know.  i guess i never thought about it... i just want to help.  i want to be in on the attack. i want my own ship.
if you are as good a pilot as you are a swordsman... we are the ones who have been rewarded.
you are a good pilot... I have learned a lot from you... i wish you...
i know, but the chances for survival here just are not great enough in my book.  I have got what i came for. now I have got to get back to my ship.
the kiber crystal.
keep it with you always.  you will have more need of it than i.  it will bring the force to you.  you have already learned to feel it... now you must learn to use it.
thank you, sir.  your kindness is greatly appreciated, but if it is at all possible, artoo and i would like to remain in your service.
I would consider it an honor.
you are starkiller?
yes, sir.
have you been checked out?
yes, sir.  i was considered one of the best bush pilots on sullust. I have also had six hours on the t-2.
six hours, huh?  well, that is your ship there.  you are blue five.  you stay glued to me.  i do not want any independent operations out there. personally i think it is foolish for them to be sending fresh kids out on a job like this.  this is no joy ride we are going on.
yes, sir.
blue five, does that glare bother you?
I have got it blocked.  I am all right.
I am right behind you, blue leader.
what is that?
blue five, break off your cover attack.  it is too late.  make your own run on the exhaust port.  do you copy, luke?
yes, sir, but i can get him...
forget it, son.
i noticed you were having some problems, blue five... i thought I would help.
thanks, old buddy.  I will be with you in a second.
