actually, captain, your precise target area was thirty-five meters that way.
thanks for pointing that out.
oh
I have warned ye about that back of yours. you should have a doctor take a look at it.
tomorrow i want to make a tri-elliptical jump. that is where you jump out over northern china and make three complete orbits before you start re-entry.
captain. perhaps you have forgotten that tomorrow is the christening ceremony.
I am not going  scotty, help me with this chute.
what do you mean, you are not going? we promised.
when i retired, i swore I would never set foot on a starship again, and i meant it.
captain=8a
i do not want to hear anymore about it. I am not going, and that is final.
I am captain john harriman. I would like to welcome you all aboard.
it is our pleasure.
well, may we have a look around?
please, please.
but that was not so long ago. it could not have been more than...
twelve years, sir.
yes, well, congratulations, ensign. it would not be the enterprise without a sulu at the helm.
you know, scotty, it amazes me.
and what would that be, sir?
sulu. when did he find the time for a family?
it is like you always said- if something is important enough, you make the time.
excuse me, gentlemen, if you will take your seats.
oh, of course.
prepare to leave spacedock. aft thrusters ahead one quarter, port and starboard at station keeping.  captain kirk, I would be honored if you would give the order to get underway.
no, no. thank you.
please, i insist.
can you locate them?
the ships are bearing at 3-1-0 mark 2-1-5. distance: three light years.
signal the closest starship. we are in no condition to mount a rescue. we do not even have a full crew aboard.
we are within visual range of the energy distortion, captain.
on screen.
we do not have a tractor beam.
you left spacedock without a tractor beam?
it will not be installed until tuesday.  ensign sulu, try generating a subspace field around the ships. that might break them free.
what about the gravimetric distortions? they will tear us apart.
risk is part of the game if you want to sit in that chair.
we are within range, sir.
beam them directly to sickbay.
their life signs are are phasing in and out of our space-time continuum.
phasing? to where?
the first thing you learn as captain is how to cheat death.  scotty?
there is just no way to disrupt a gravimetric field of this magnitude!
but i do have a theory...
i thought you might.
an anti-matter discharge directly ahead=8a it might disrupt the field long enough for us to break away.
a photon torpedo?
aye.
load torpedo bays, prepare to fire on my command.
captain, it may be possible to simulate a torpedo blast using a resonance burst from the main deflector dish.
where are the deflector relays?
deck 15, section 21-alpha.
I will go. you have the bridge.
keep her together until i get back.
i always do.
kirk here.
captain, i do not know how much longer i can hold her together!
you did it, kirk!  damage report, ensign.
there is some buckling on the starboard nacelle.  we have also got a hull breach in the engineering section. emergency forcefields are in place and holding.
do not you think you are taking this a little too far, number one?
when we went to ancient rome for deanna's promotion, we threw her to the lions, remember?
well, now that we are all aboard=8a  number one, bring the ship before the wind.  let's see what is out there.
aye, aye, sir.  take the wheel, commander.
imagine what it was like, will. no engines, no computers, just the wind, the sea and the stars to guide you.
bad food, brutal discipline.  no women.
captain, are you all right?
yes. fine. if you will excuse me.
the royal...studs?
you see the top yardarm, now look to the-
it looks like we are too late.
there are no other ships in the system.
sensors show five life signs aboard the station, captain.
the station complement was nineteen.
sir?
make it so.
these blast patterns are consistent with type iii disruptors.
well, that narrows it to klingon, breen or romulan.
is she still angry?
no, but I would stay out of sickbay for a while if i were you. i still do not know why you dropped her in the water.
i was attempting to get in the spirit of things. i thought it would be humorous.
data, you are not thinking about using that thing are you?
it has occurred to me on several occasions. but i believe this may be the appropriate time.
wait a minute. i thought you have always been afraid it would overload your neural net.
that is true. however, i believe my growth as an artificial lifeform has reached an impasse. for thirty-four years i have endeavored to become more "human"- to grow beyond my original programming. and yet i am still unable to grasp such a simple concept as humor. this emotion chip is the only answer.
but at the first sign of trouble, I am going to deactivate it. agreed?
agreed.
there is still no indication of why they attacked the station?
we think they were looking for something- they practically tore the place apart.
hmm,  inform starfleet command. this could indicate a new romulan threat in this sector.
you want me to contact starfleet?
is there a problem?
no, sir.
thank you, number one.
there is something else, captain. one of the scientists, a doctor soran,has insisted on speaking with you.  i told him you were busy, sir, but he said it was absolutely imperative that he speak with you right away.
understood. that will be all.
sir, is there anything wrong?
no. thank you.
well?
i believe the beverage has provoked an emotional response.
really? what do you feel?
i am uncertain. i have had little experience with emotions. i am unable to articulate the sensation.
doctor soran?
yes, yes, captain. thank you for coming.
nothing for me.  i understand there is something urgent you need to discuss with me.
yes. i need to return to the observatory immediately. i must continue a critical experiment i was running on the amargosa star.
doctor, we are still conducting an investigation into the attack. once we have completed our work, we will be happy to allow you and your fellow scientists back aboard the observatory. until then-
the timing is very important on my experiment- if it is not completed within the next twelve hours, years of research will be lost.
we are doing the best we can. now if you will excuse me...
one of the dead romulans had a tricorder. we analyzed its sensor logs and found they were scanning for signature particles of a compound called trilithium.
trilithium?
an experimental compound the romulans have been working on. in theory, a trilithium-based explosive would be thousands of times more powerful than an anti-matter weapon. but they never found a way to stabilize it.
why were they looking for it on a federation observatory? it does not make any sense.
have geordi and data go over with the next away team. tell them to scan the observatory for trilithium.
aye, sir.
i get it. i get it.
you get what?
what?
during the farpoint mission. we were on the bridge and you told a joke. that was the punchline.
the farpoint mission? data, that was seven years ago.
i know. i just got it.  it was very funny.
thanks.
i do not see a control panel, or an access port.
it appears to be a magnetically sealed.
data, this is not the time.
i am sorry, but i cannot stop myself. i think something is wrong
data, are you all right?
i believe the emotional chip has overloaded my positronic relays.
we better get you back to the ship  la forge to enterprise.
counselor. what can i do for you?
actually, I am here to see if there is anything i can do for you.
well, i appreciate your concern, but I would rather not discuss it right now, thank you.
I am afraid i can not just leave it at that. the commanding officer of this ship is clearly distraught about something. as ship's counselor, it is my duty to-
as ship's counselor, it is your duty to know not only when you are needed but also when you are not.
you can not fool an empath, captain. i know exactly when I am needed.
well, with all due respect to your betazoid senses, i prefer to be alone right now.
very well. i suppose i could make out my weekly report to starfleet command without your input.  "admiral lusby, regarding the unusual behavior of jean-luc picard: i find him increasingly irritable, remote and uncooperative. i recommend forced shore leave at a starbase facility in order to-"
all right, all right. you have made your point.
captain, im sorry.  i know there were a lot of unresolved conflicts between you and your brother.
what i can not get out of my mind is the image of rene- my nephew. i just can not believe he is gone.
it is only natural to feel a heightened sense of tragedy when a child dies.  but it goes deeper than that, does not it? i can sense that rene meant a great deal to you.
in a way, he was as close as i ever came to having a child of my own.
your family history is very important to you, is not it?
ever since i was a little boy, i remember hearing about the family line. the picards that fought at trafalgar, the picards that settled the first martian colony. when my brother married and had a son...
you felt it was no longer your responsibility to carry on the family line.
my brother had shouldered that burden, allowing me to pursue my own selfish needs.
there is nothing selfish about pursuing your own life, your own career.
report.
a quantum implosion has occurred within the amargosa star. all nuclearfusion is breaking down.
how is that possible?
sensor records show a solar probe was launched from the observatory a few moments ago.
the star's going to collapse in a matter of minutes.
toh-pak-cha=8a
hos qordu.
i have spoken to the klingon high council, sir. they identified the bird of prey as belonging to the duras sisters.
lursa and b'etor? this does not make any sense. a renowned stellar physicist somehow uses a trilithium probe to destroy a star, kidnaps geordi and escapes with a pair of klingon renegades. why? what the hell's going on?
looks like you are stuck with emotions for a while. how do you feel?
i am quite...preoccupied with concern about geordi.
we all are, data. but we are going to get him back.
i hope so, sir.
do you remember him?
oh yes. i remember everyone who was on the lakul, every face. even the ones who did not make it.
guinan. it is important that you tell me what you know. we think soran's developed a weapon...a terrible weapon. it might give him enough power to-
soran does not care about power or weapons. all he cares about is getting back to the nexus.
what is the "nexus"?
that ribbon is not just some random energy phenomenon travelling through space. it is a doorway. it leads to another place- the nexus. it does not exist in our universe and it does not play by the same rules either.
what happened to you?
i can not remember very much - what it looked like or how long i was there. but i do remember how it felt.
it took a long time, but eventually i learned to live with it. and i began to realize that my experience in the nexus had changed me.  i knew things about people, about events, about time.
your "sixth sense"- I have always wondered where it came from.  and what about soran?
soran may still be obsessed with getting back. and if he is, he will do anything to find that doorway again.
but why destroy a star?  thank you, guinan.
a remarkable piece of equipment, but a little inelegant, would not you say?  have you ever considered a prosthesis that would make you look a little more...normal?
what is normal?
normal is what everyone else is, and what you are not.
what do you want?
i do not want a science lecture. you were on that observatory looking for trilithium. why?
i was ordered to by the captain.
let's try to move beyond the usual prisoner-interrogator banter, shall we? you have information and i need it.  did the captain explain his orders to you? did he say why you were searching for trilithium?
no.
what about guinan? what has she told you about me?
guinan? i do not know what you are talking about.
oh, i forgot to tell you. while you were unconscious, i injected a nano-probe into your bloodstream. it is been navigating your cardiovascular system, and right now I have attached it to your left ventricle.  a little trick i picked up from the borg.
yeah, they are full of great ideas.
i just stopped your heart for five seconds. it felt like an eternity, did not it? did you know that you can stop the human heart for up to ten minutes before the onset of brain damage?
no, i did not know that.
we learn something new about ourselves every day.  now. maybe i did not make myself clear. it is very important that you tell me exactly what captain picard knows.
i told you everything. you might as well just kill me right now.
according to our information, the ribbon is a conflux of temporal energy which travels through our galaxy every 39.1 years
when is it expected back?
data?
sorry, captain. the ribbon has already entered the galaxy. it will pass through this sector in approximately thirty-one hours.
guinan said soran was trying to get back to the ribbon. if that is true, then there must be some connection with the amargosa star.
the star's destruction has had numerous astro-physical effects within this sector. however, none of them appear to have a connection to the energy ribbon.
give me a list of those effects. i want to know every single thing which has been altered or changed, no matter how insignificant.
it will take a few moments for the computer to compile the information.
data, are you all right?
no, sir. i am finding it difficult to concentrate. i believe i am overwhelmed with feelings of remorse and regret concerning my actions on the observatory.
what do you mean?
i wanted to save geordi. i tried. but i experienced something i did not expect.  i believe it was fear.
fear is a very difficult emotion to overcome. it is something we all have to learn to deal with.
but i did not deal with it, sir. i let it prevent me from helping my friend.  does that make me a coward?
no. and what you must try to avoid is becoming consumed by another emotion which i believe you are beginning to experience: guilt.
guilt. it is a most unpleasant feeling.
according to our current information, the destruction of the amargosa star has had the following effects in this sector: gamma emissions have increased by .05 percent, the starship bozeman was forced to make a course correction, a research project on gorik iv was halted due to increased neutrino particles, ambient magnetic fields have decreased by-
wait. the bozeman,why did it change course?
the destruction of the amargosa star has altered the gravitational forces throughout the sector. any ship passing through this region will have to make a minor course correction.
this is its current position.
can you project its course?
courage is an emotion too, data.  now, can you project the course of the ribbon?
i believe so.
now, you said the gravitational forces in this sector have been altered, could that also affect the course of the ribbon?
i believe so.
he can not go to the ribbon, so he is trying to make the ribbon come to him.  data, is it going to pass near any m-class planets?
yes, sir. there are two in the veridian system.
that is where he is going.
it should be noted, sir, that the collapse of the veridian star would produce a shock wave similar to the one we observed at amargosa.
and destroy every planet in the system.
are any of them inhabited?
veridian iii is uninhabited, but veridian iv supports a pre-industrial humanoid society.
population?
approximately two hundred thirty million.
maybe they are not out there.
they are just trying to decide whether a twenty year-old klingon bird of prey is any match for the federation flagship.
or perhaps they are on the surface.
mr. data, scan the planet for lifeforms.
"lifeforms tiny little lifeforms. where are the lifeforms-"
commander.
sorry, sir.  there is too much interference in the planet's ionosphere for an accurate reading.
that is a pretty big margin of error.
too big. how long until the ribbon arrives?
approximately forty-seven minutes, sir.
i have to find a way to get to soran.
the captain would make a much more valuable hostage.
we will consider it a prisoner exchange.
you must think I am quite the madman.
the thought had crossed my mind.
the only possible reason you are here is because you are not entirely confident you can shoot down my probe after all. so you have come to dissuade me from my horrific plan.  good luck.
it is working.
where is he?
I have spent eighty years looking for another way, captain. this is the only one.  of course, you could always come with me. you fancy yourself an explorer. here's a chance to explore something no human has ever experienced.
not if it means killing over two hundred million people.  i wonder, did your wife leandra know that she married a man who was capable of mass murder?
i thought he was the chief engineer.
he is.
then when is he going to engineering?
we are all mortal, soran. it is one of the truths of ou existence.
what if i told you i found a new truth?
the nexus.
time has no meaning there. the predator has no teeth.
where is he now?
i do not know. he bathed, now he is roaming the ship. he must be the only engineer in starfleet who does not go to engineering!
careful, captain. that is a fifty gigawatt forcefield. i would not want to see you get hurt.
thank you.
they have found a way to penetrate our shields.
lock phasers and return fire!
it is a class d-12 bird of prey. they were retired from service because of defective plasma coils.
plasma coils...is there any way we can use that to our advantage?
i do not see how. the plasma coil is part of their cloaking device.
could we access the defective coil and trigger their cloak?
perhaps.  yes! if we sent a low-level ionic pulse, it might reset the coil and engage the cloaking systems.
as their cloak begins to engage, their shields will drop.
right. and they will be vulnerable for at least two seconds.  data,lock onto that plasma coil.
worf, prepare a spread of photon torpedoes. we will have to hit them the instant they begin to cloak.
aye, sir.
we are only going to get one shot at this. target their primary reactor. with any luck, their warp core should implode.
target their bridge.
full disruptors.
that is it, bridge- we are all out!
one minute to warp core breach.
i have rerouted auxiliary power to the lateral thrusters- attempting to level our descent.
all hands, brace for impact!
guinan, what is going on? where am i?
you are in the nexus.
this is the nexus?
for you. this is where you wanted to be.
but i never had a wife, children, a home like this.
enjoy them, jean-luc.
guinan, what are you doing here? i thought you were on the enterprise.
i am on the enterprise. i am also here.  think of me as an "echo" of the person you know. a part she left behind.
left behind?
when the enterprise-b beamed us off the lakul, we were partially in the nexus. the transporters locked on to us, but somehow everyone left a part of themselves behind.
soran?
all of us.
where is he now?
wherever he wanted to be.
these are my children...my children.
yeah. they are great, are not they? you can go back and see them born, go forward and see your grandchildren. time has no meaning here.
guinan, can i leave the nexus?
why would you want to leave?
can i?
yes, where would you go?
i do not understand.
i told you, time has no meaning here. if you leave, you can go anywhere, any time.
i know exactly where i want to go, and when. back to that mountaintop on veridian iii, before soran put out the star. i have to stop him.
what makes you think things will be any different this time?
you are right. I will need help.  guinan, will you come back with me? together, we could-
i can not leave. I am already there, remember?
beautiful day, is not it?
yes, yes, it is.
this clock, i gave this clock to bones.
I am from what you would consider the future; the 24th-century.
so you are telling me this is the 24th-century, and I am dead?
not exactly. as i said, this is some kind of-
temporal nexus, yeah, i heard you.  something is missing.
you said history considers me dead. who am i to argue with history?
you are a starfleet officer and you have a duty to-
i do not need to be lectured by you. i was out saving the galaxy when your grandfather was still in diapers. and frankly, i think the galaxy owes me one  i was like you once- so worried about duty and obligations that i could not see anything past this uniform. and in the end, what did it get me? nothing. not this time.
no, no, it is not. it is better.
better?
this is my uncle's barn in iowa.
antonia?
she is not real either, is she? nothing here is. nothing here matters.
captain of the enterprise, huh?
that is right.
close to retirement?
i had not planned on it.
how can i argue with the captain of the enterprise? what was the name of that planet=8a veridian iii?
that is right.
i take it the odds are against us and the situation is grim?
you could say that.
of course, if spock were here, he would say i was being an irrational, illogical human for wanting to go on a mission like that.
I will find a way to contact the enterprise. you are going to be all right.
did we do it? did we make a difference?
yes.  thank you.
least i could do for a captain of the enterprise.
i always thought I would have a crack at this chair one day.
you may still. somehow i doubt this will be the last ship to carry the name enterprise.
