I will lead.
why? are we going dancing?
i said I will lead.
what are you going to do, cooper, throw yourself on a bunsen burner? it is a bunch of businessmen touring a lab.  we will be out in no time.
i got to keep you alive--it's in my contract.
if you are working for me you are going to do what i tell you.
just get me a coke and do not argue with me, ok?
I am not arguing.  I am just telling you what the deal is--congresswoman.
look cooper i do not care what my father says, if you embarrass me here you are going to regret it, understand?
anything else?  maybe a sandwich?
just the soda, please. cooper heads down the hall.  filmore watches him leave, sighs, then turns and smiles at the general manager:
enjoying the tour so far?
are you going to kill us?
i do not know.  if you gave me a reason to...
how goes the roll call?
we are secured.  takeover team is in position and accounted for.
henry, what exactly are these crazed gunmen demanding?
th-they want t-twenty-f-five million dollars cash--or chemco will be destroyed.
twenty-five-million!  and what will they do if the money is not delivered?
th-th-they'll kill one hostage every hour until it is--
does that include helen filmore, united states congresswoman?
y-yes--
uh-oh!  do you know if the demands are being taken seriously at this point, or does washington think these people are just a bunch of crazy fuckers playing games?
well, i-i hope that--that--
times up!
came over the satellite.  we are keeping the bird clear should they call back.
she is still alive.
the transmission is an hour old...
this was taken when richter was arrested in washington state, 1985. he was charged with interstate arms trafficking, skipped bail, and has since been a fugitive.
chemco is willing to deal with him, meet his demands.  i can have the money there in an hour.
and--of course there is the human cost, which is incalculable.
I am sure you will figure it out.
who is ryan cooper?
I will let the senator tell you.
what are we going to do!
who is got matches?
i have a lighter!
even better.
have you broken it yet?  we have got six more heads and that means six more hours.
I am in to the directory but they have codified the stockpile--numerically.
of course it is codified!  each number probably corresponds to a compound.  have them pull every compound from the lab and compare it to the codes till you figure it out--that's what you are here for.
i know what I am here for-you do not need to remind me.
something tells me you do not want to be on tv, friend.
richter-we got a problem!
what now?
we are outta here--
well?
we have prohibited the networks from broadcasting the transmissions.
good.
we have a special forces squadron out of thailand surrounding the compound as we speak.
and what exactly do they intend to do?
the ball is in richter's court.  but we are sure as hell not going to sit on our hands while he assassinates people--we're going to stop the son-of- a-bitch!
i do not think you--grasp--the situation, mr. myers.
how well do you know this place?
we are on sublevel six.  we will pass some labs and then we will hit the stairwell--
are the labs in operation?
i do not see why they would not be.
good...
--be prepared.
we do not have time!
yeah and we do not have much ammo either!
let's move it we got company!
what happened!
so, what are we looking at white?
what do you mean?
what do they have in there that is so valuable?  a cure for aids, a cure for cancer?
i assure you gentlemen if we had something of that magnitude it would not be shelved in a lab somewhere...
is there anything in there that can blow?  we have to be ready for any contingency--
mister myers it is a chemical plant! there are a number of volatile compounds-- but they are safely stored away...
i do not know what hit us!  we had them trapped on the stairwell.  they could be anywhere now.
i now understand the expression "you get what you pay for!" a bunch of chumps!
listen man, i do not need this shit--
kz...7-0...7-0...nine.  it checks out.
excellent...excellent!
just what the hell is he talking about?
we've...been developing a product... kz 70709.
why the hell did not you tell us this was at stake!
chemco's been developing nerve gas?
chemco makes many things senator! we were under government contract!
i have not been briefed on any such thing!
apparently, this project is--unique. but it is heavily protected--all formulas are heavily codified!
what the hell is it, anyhow?
well, it is a binary formula--a precise amount of two separate chemicals must be exposed to the nitrogen in the atmosphere simultaneously for it to work.
how much do they have?
of the separate chemicals--i do not know, uh, offhand--
how much of this shit do they have, white!!
they must have got their hands on a test vial!
what does that mean?
there is enough in one vial...
how is the arm?
it is nothing to worry about.
we would not have made it out without you. filmore or without you.
forget about it.
i was not angry with you i was angry with him.
he is a very stubborn man sometimes...
you should listen your old man more often.  he is got principles.
what do you mean?
after leizburg, he stuck his neck out to defend me.  he is loyal to the end. even if it is not--politically correct at the time.
what is that supposed to mean?
what do you think?
let me tell you something cooper! i never once bad-mouthed him during all those months--
no but you did not defend him either! did not want to rock the boat.  guess the ride was too smooth. filmore i was acting under legal counsel!
where the hell could they have gone!
what are you so worked up about jack? fuck 'em--we do not need 'em.
i want the girl.  i do not care about the rest--but a us congresswoman taken hostage will make for great copy. we will make headlines all over the world...
you are fucking crazy richter--you know that?
cooper...
yeah?...
i drew my gun, ran in the direction of the cries...violating the first rule of service...i let the ambass- ador out of my sight.
what happened?
by the time i got back to the party our ambassador was face-down, in a bed of bloody azaleas.
you are a lot like my father, cooper... you think with your heart.
used to filmore, used to.
that is it!  up ahead!
where does it lead?
the maintenance hatch--it takes us outside the building!
what is happening at the waterfront?
we are almost done piping in directly to the olympia.  should have it all in about an hour or so.
excellent.
we got trouble.  that bodyguard son- of-a-bitch has them running all over the field--just took out three on the north end!
well get someone down there!
there is not anyone! he is opened that whole sector now!
is he with the girl?
i do not know--look!  they can get in now, man!  we got no one left to guard it!
now what?
there is the fence...
I am going first.  taking the fire. if we go out together we are all dead!
what are you talking about?
they probably have guards on the roof--and they are going to be firing at me--not you! atkins what makes you so sure?
because I will be firing at them.
you are talking about committing suicide!
what about rule one:  never let the person you are protecting out of your sight!
rule two:  without alternative, use yourself as a shield.
go fuck yourself...
hey now!  no cussing on tv!  well in closing I would like to say that there are two reasons to have that money outside in an hour.  one is my perky co-anchor here, and the second is the lives of tens of thousands of people--people just like you and me!
i hope you do not mind all this--it's just that the networks will eat it up, you know...
you are going to pay for this...
you got it all backwards, helen--but that is ok, you work for the government...
he would not take it on the helicopters. he would transport it through pipelines that connect chemco to the waterfront...
what!
they were probably topping off a docked tanker while he stalled for time--without anyone being the wiser...
what about cooper--where is he?
he is in there...
our traveler's insurance, you know what i mean?
gotcha.  we have been filling barrels all day--we've got  hell of a stockpile.
good.
i say we head out.
agreed--let's move it.
are you hungry?  we can discuss some final arrangements over some slop in the galley.
captain it would be impossible to turn down such a gracious request.
my crew is going to work alongside with your men, do not worry--we're a team!
why should i worry?  is there a problem?
well, there was uh, a little dissent about the amount of the bonus--
dissent?
you know, when we reach kompong som--
you understand that they are watching our every move right now--you think you are just going to sail away?
it seems to me we are just sailing away. they have not sunk us yet, have they? besides, do not you worry your pretty little head about that.  it is all been taken care of.
i know you are not too happy at this point.  it is too bad we were not able to meet elsewhere, under different circumstances...
like where--in your dreams?
looks like richter is not acting alone--he's heading into some dangerous waters.
she is as good as gone...
you can not think like that!  we are watching them like a hawk--he's bound to trip up, make one false move--
i suppose...you think i should thank you.
yes, you should.
you see, it paid off--you broke away from the old guard, congresswoman.  it will not be long till they are calling you senator filmore--
shut up!
come on, drink up.
i do not want any...
i insist...
i said i do not want any, goddammit!
are we adrift--
if i do not get power up we are!
drop the anchor!
we can't--it's power driven!
get your men to do it!
the thing weighs more than a ton-- you want to roll up your sleeves and try it?!
well filmore--
well cooper...
looks like you are not going to make that dinner after all...
i guess not cooper...
