... ja-ck b-ar-t-le-tt... is jack bartlett interested in me?
i-i'm sorry - can someone else please run the ouija board?  it is creepy, it is wrong and it goes against the teachings of my lord and savior, jesus christ.
hannah, in order to get real answers from the netherworld, you have got to have a christian virgin run the board.  your kind is pure of heart - the devil will not dick with you.
well technically, i do not think I am a virgin anymore.
yeah.  this summer at church camp?  I am pretty sure i had, y'know, an orgasm.
hold up, hold up.  any sentence that starts with "at church camp" am not leading to the big "o."
anyway, last time i checked, you still had to have sex to have an orgasm.  and i know she am not seen the lord on all fours - so I am just saying.
well, i want to know what happened --
nope.  sounds more like the first.
I will just ask the question myself... "is jack bartlett interested in me?"
hi, jack.
excuse me, vendela, have you seen diane? we are supposed to go to the homecoming dance tonight.
... so when your dad said, "i never want to see your "f-'in' faces again!" do you think he meant forever or just until your mom wakes up?
i do not know... and what the hell was that sound she made right before she hit the coffee table.
well, if i had to guess...  I would say that was the sound of a mother saying good-bye to her little boy and hello to a young man who is going to be a daddy of his own...  jack, do you know what i see here?
spit from your dad?
i see a flower.  and y'know, even the most beautiful flowers still grow from dirt.
yeah.
so, while we are knee deep in right now - and things seem pretty "stinky" - in the long run, we are going to grow strong from this.
y'think?
i sure do.
diane, I have loved you ever since i first saw you -- right before you kicked me in the head.
oh, jack...
holy shit.
you just became a statistic!
oh my g-d!  I am not first!
but you are not married.
wait!  did you say you are pregnant or you were pregnant... you had it, threw it out and you are going to go back and dance all night!
shut up, cleo.  di, how much do you need for an abortion?
i-i did not mean to say "whore," diane. i just hear it so much at church - it kinda came flying out of my head.
i know, hannah.  look, I am not going to get an abortion.  i mean, i always planned to get married and have kids - I am just going a little out of order. kinda reminds me of another young lady who found herself "with child," unmarried, on a long road, with no place to sleep.  'course, that was a long-long time ago.  but no matter what, she held her head high and said... "pappa do not preach, I am in trouble deep.  pappa do not preach, 'cause I am keepin' my baby.  hey.  I am going to keep my baby." the great one...
madonna.
we are here for you, diane.
I am sorry.
what?!  but all our paperwork's there. my school records, jack's football records...
let me explain something...
no.  wait!  did i say promise!  cross-my heart and hope-to-die, stick-a-needle-in my-eye we will never miss a payment?!
uh, yes.  yes you did.
...do not accept charity.  we are two young, able-bodied americans.  we do not want a handout.  we want a hand-up. give us food and we will be hungry tomorrow.  give us corn - the kind you plant, not eat - and we will grow our own food and... and, uh, then cut it, and - uh, y'know eat it!  now, if you are interested in giving us a home loan, i will sit back down.  if not, have a nice day, ma'am.
sorry.  my hands are tied.
jack, sweetie, I am only eating for two.
but di, all this food reminds me of how much i want to teach our baby.
like cocoa puffs.  good.  captain crunch.  bad.  shreds the roof of your mouth.  i mean you hear, "tricks are for kids!"  and you think, "i'm a kid, i guess they are for me."  but your baby brain's got no idea that fruit loops are, like, a million times better.  I am going to save our kid all that pain.
jack...
if you could be count chocula, frankenberry or trix the rabbit, who would you be?
trix...
me too!  will it ever end?!  i love this lady!
jack, i think i should get a job.
but we agreed your job is running the baby machine...
i know, but that was before.
ah!  i almost forgot gas for the baby machine.  I will grab your snickers and get a place in line.
i never knew you dreamed of working in a grocery store bank branch.  baby, we are living the great american dream!
mmm-hmmm...
if you reach for the stars, you are bound to get -- mm-jack, pull over.
huh?  oh jesus...
diane, it says here you are going to have mood swings, uncontrollable gas.
more proof god's a guy...
...and sex dreams where you actually have an orgasm!
virgin mary musta snuck that one in.
diane?  diane!
huh-ha-wha?  ahh!  I am under the ice!  I am uh -- oh...man...  that was a weird one.
another sex dream?
wayne gretzky.
hat-trick?
he is the great one...
oh my g-d, you have been robbed!
no...i've been pregnant.
di, are you okay?  we can skip the girl party this week.
everything's fine.  I am just having a little trouble keeping my frown upside down.
you want us to help you pick up?
do not martha-fucking-stewart me!  if you do not like it - you try being a pregnant teen!
"no" you are not sure or "no" I am not fat?
uh, "no"... you are not fat.
you sure I am not fat?
look, you are fat, diane.  you are fat, fat, fat!  because you eat, eat, eat!  what?!  she keeps asking because she wants some honesty.
no i don't... i keep asking because i feel fat.
oh g-d, I am sorry... you are not really fat!  i was just saying that because, uh, i thought that is what you wanted me to say.
you sure?
positive.
"positive" you are sure I am not fat or "positive" i'm...
oh my g-d, i read about this!  it is called a "pregnancy insanity."  quick, she needs a sitz bath --
look, i might be moody.  i might be gassy.  but i am perfectly sane.  think about it.  in school, they tell us, "dreams can come true."  right?
listen, kansas, i know you dream of springing your mom some day...
stop, you are going to make me cry.
and if the o.j. trial taught us anything, it taught us that in america, you can cut off someone is head and still be found innocent if you have enough money.  your mom only shot a guy...
and hannah, you could give your share to your church - or maybe buy one of those hungry little kids sally struthers advertises.
or, i could get my own horse...
or that!  look, you guys, i just want to provide a future for my baby.  i know my bank branch like the back of my puffy little hand.  i could open that safe in my sleep!
i mean it.  I am in.  this is the closest thing to a goddamn family that I have ever had.  if one of us needs something, we all do.
stop it!  this is crazy!
I am in, too.
cleo!
kansas is right.  we are like sisters -- we are closer than sisters.  and you do not turn your back on family.
c'mon, luce, people do it in the movies all the time.
and they get caught!
that is right.  so all we have to do is watch a bunch of movies and learn from their mistakes.
and you know real cops are not half as smart as keanu.
forget it.  I have got a scholarship to harvard hanging over my head.  i will not risk it.
conan went to harvard.
shut up.
lucy, do you know for sure you are going to get that scholarship?
no.
if you do not - can you still afford to go to harvard?
... i do not know.  probably not.
so then this is not crazy.  it is a sure bet.
well...
but, we have to make a smart plan!
of course - of course!  hands in...
...he slices off the guy's ear, and i mean you see everything - the bloody pink hole where the --
cleo, I have already thrown up twice today - could you please get to any relevant part of the movie?
well...uh...they, y'know, uh... they had nicknames.
uh, jack - look, i can explain...
diane, there is no excuse for not taking your pre-natal vitamins.  now, if you guys were really friends, you would remind her to take these.
...so, while it is a laugh riot for the whole family, and tim conway is just about as funny as they come, especially when he goes...
wait a minute.  you watched the apple fucking-dumpling gang?!
I am only allowed "g" movies.
am i the only one who cares about this? at least i watched "dog day afternoon!"
kansas!
I am sorry, diane, but I am not going to watch my dreams fade away 'cause the virgin mary here thinks she is going to get ideas from kiddie movies --
you sure you wanna go there?
uh...maybe?
'cause i will jerry springer you faster than you can say "fat-assed lesbian!"
di, we are sorry.  we...
it is off... i can not take the fighting, the back-stabbing, the open hostility. we are not acting like cheerleaders, we are acting like a bunch of sorority girls!
it is all my fault.  I am sorry i ever started this...
di, it is not your fault.  we all wanted to do this - for you... for ourselves.
look, maybe i can watch a pg movie... I will just say I am counting dirty words for sunday school.
that is okay, hannah.  it was silly to think we could learn to rob a bank from watching movies.  sex - you can learn from movies.  but robberies?  there is no way.
ahh!  baby's got two heads!!!
it is twins!!
oh, thank g-d!  I am not just super fat!
oh - okay, we am not done with this... those babies are going to get a good start in life - with a real crib - one that costs a shit-load!  we are going to learn how to rob a bank from the only people who really know how to do it - criminals!  I am going to visit my mom!
grandma and grandpa sent you pictures of a neighbor girl.  they did not want you to break out and come kidnap me.
thank g-d.  i was starting to think I would killed the wrong man.
you should not smoke so many of those.
i know, but it keeps down the size of my can.
they could kill you.
so could half the women in here.  and I would rather go out with a nice can... so watcha here for?  to say how much you hate me or how much your grandparents hate me...
i do not hate you.  i need your help.
my what?
your help.
now how the hell can i help you?
okay, you can not tell anybody.
gee, I will sit out this afternoon's coffee talk.  whaddya want?
my best friend got pregnant.
before you?  whoo-hoo!
i know - that is what i said too. anyway, we want to help her get some money for the baby by robbing a bank.
well, shit-fire, kansas, that is the sweetest goddamn thing ever...
i know, but we can not quite figure out how to, y'know, do it.
so you need my help?  oh my g-d, this is like asking me for help with your homework.  hey, mink, c'mere!
kansas, i want you to meet someone special.
oh, jesus christ, mom!  like my life am not a great big pile-of-shit 'cause you are in here?  now i have to add, "p.s. my mom's a dyke" too?
what?!  hush up, you mouthy little shit!
hey, do not "mouthy shit" me - I am outta here.
wait, petunia.  mommy's a little amped up - did not get her yard time this morning.  mink am not my bitch.  she is a specialist... in banks.
...so although their dad said, "don't get out of the car until i get back with help," they knew the sheriff's voice as he yelled.  "run to my voice - and do not look back."  the twins did as he said, but at the last second they turned around and saw the escaped mental patient, bouncing their father's head on the top of the car!  ah!  they jumped, diane!  they jumped!
that was gas, sweetie.
oh... what are you working on?
jus some girlie things for the squad.
yeah?
i guess there is an exception to every rule.
no!  wait...um...  we are the a-squad from lincoln high? so, uh...
we were told you could "fix us up."
really...
yeah.  "itchy" sent us.
she did, did she?  how is the old girl?
definitely old.
that is itchy, alright.  how many y'need?
well, we will each probably want one - so let's make it five.  five should do it.
okay.  how much ammo you reckon you will need?
ammo?
bullets.
bullets?  no bullets!  oh my gosh, these are just to scare people. kinda like round-off, back handspring, whip back, double full.  you never really use it - you just want the opposing squad to know you have got it.
right.  that will be fifteen hundred - cash.
what?!
you piece-a-shit bug zapper!
hey, hey, hey.  c'mon you guys.  obviously that is a little more than our budget will allow.  basically, we are looking for something around two-hundred dollars.
oh, why did not you say.  for two-hundred i got a nice rubber band and a real sharp nail in back... I will gift wrap it for you.  the deal is fifteen hundred. cash.  take it or leave it.
oh please, we have all got bright futures ahead of us - we are not going to tell anyone.  promise!
maybe we can make a deal.
my daughter's always dreamed of bein' a cheerleader.  put her on your squad and I will give you the guns.
you are kidding.
fern!  c'mere!  she is siphoning tanks - takes a sec to cap off the cyanide hose.
is jack upset that he can not be here?
hee-hee-haaaa-weee worked it out.  heee hee-haaa....
okay, even with all our savings, it is still only six hundred fifty-four.
hee-hee-hee, haaaaa-that's it?  hee-hee hee...
do not make me jerry lewis you guys for the rest.
hey, i even took my parents' foster kid money.  phillipe's going to have to gather rice without pants this month.
hey.  eyes on your own belly!
hee-hee-h-wait a minute.  hold on, now. what do we do before a big game?
use the bathroom, because the port-a potties on the field are gross.
my fault - what do we do that enables us to be as great as we are?
i personally think of how conan started as a writer, then became a...
-- we practice!  sorry, cleo.
that is right.  practice makes perfect. I am practicing to have a baby right now. if we do a practice job, we will not only get the experience, but also the extra money we need for guns!
i can not believe your grandparents never come down here.
you have three heart attacks and a half dozen strokes and tell me how much you wanna run up and down the stairs.  shit - i forgot to pick up the cigarettes.
oh no...
he ikea'd us.
screw lucy!
kansas?
is that you down there?
shit!  yeah, grandma.  me and the squad.
are you girls talking about boys? practicing kissing your hands?
oh yeah, you caught us...
oh well, then I will put some cookies at the top of the stairs for you gals.
thanks!  that would be great.
you got that big retarded girl down there?
uh...yeah, grandma.  she does not mean that.  kinda lost the old filter with her last stroke.
then I will throw a few more treats on the plate.  where is my smokes?
I will get them before "touched by an angel," do not worry.
you damn well better...
who are you - the goddamn bionic woman?!
i just pulled and it - it came off.
this is great - great!  now we have to enter the front door!
look, it is really not my fault.
hey!  rule number one - never take off the mask!  y'hear me!  no matter what happens, never take off the mask!
sorry, kansas...
no-gah-buh- no!  rule number two - no names!  no goddamn names, you retard!
oh for chrissakes...  "white trash betty."  i did not realize the rules went into effect before we entered safeway.
well, use your head, "stalker betty."
what the hell do you want?
i want to help.  I am part of this squad...
all of you!
bank branch!
bank branch!
all of you!
can you guys believe this?  we are like celebrities!
better enjoy it now.  'cause tomorrow some little kid falls down a well and we are nothing but a distant memory.
it was lucy!  lucy went to the cops!
remember, kansas, every time you point a finger you have got three more pointing back at you.
she is been the weak tit on this mama cat since the beginning.
that you?
yeah, hold on.
just call me later.  i gotta get some smokes for grandma.
do not use big bills!
for a pack of cigs?  i use her food stamps.
hello?
we are dead!  they showed this prison movie to my youth group on sunday.
hannah, we've...
it was not like the prison we saw - all these women had to shave their heads because they got lice from the filthy lives they would lived!  oh g-d, I am going to be someone is bald bitch!
ooops, hold on a sec.
di, it is luce.  kansas just called and said she is going to "fuck me up!"  then i heard coughing, a thud and kansas had to go.  i think her grandma had another heart attack.  anyway, why does she want to "fuck me up?"
she thinks you went to the police.
what?!  that is insane!!!  why would i go to the police?
I have got to get that.  relax.  I will see you tomorrow.
...my sunday school teacher says that in prison, women shove broom sticks up your...
hold on...
yeah?
oh thank buddha it is you, kim-lo, I am being held against my will, my civil rights have been violated and it took four days to make this one phone call...
hello?
kim-lo?
no.  this is diane.  i think you have the wrong number.
ooops, that is me -- got to run!
wrong number  nooooooo!
hello?
di?  i just called to say that conan talked about us again last night.
thanks, cleo.  see you tomorrow.
bye.
