but you can not ignore these facts!  it is suicide!  worse than that, it is genocide.
jor-el, be warned. this tone of yours approaches insolence.
my friends, i am not a rash, impulsive person. I am not given to wild, unsupported 	statements. we must evacuate this planet immediately!
you are one of krypton's greatest scientists jor-el -
then -
but so is vond-el
i have sworn to uphold the laws of krypton.
this discussion is terminated. the decision of the council is final.  you will cease pursuing this matter. any attempt by you to continue, to create a climate of fear and panic among the populace, will be deemed an act of insurrection!
and if i do not obey?
as an irredeemable criminal? you compare me to them?
if you persist, you leave us no choice.
will you abide by the council's opinion?
neither my wife nor i will attempt to leave krypton.
it is the only logical conclusion. if he remains here, he will be as dead as...
-- as we will be.
lara, please...
but why earth, jor-el. they are practically animals.
they are primitive, lara, but they are not animals.
a million years behind us.  jor-el, he is only a baby.
their atmosphere will sustain him. he will look like one of them.
he will be weightless.
yes, true. but on other worlds there would be other problems - heat, cold, no life, no life support systems...no, lara, believe me; earth is the least of evils. on earth, his lighter gravity will render him almost weightless - that can not be helped. but with his denser molecular structure, he will also be strong.  he will be fast, he will be virtually invulnerable.
he will be odd, different.
well, physiologically, he...	won't quite fit.
you have been doing some research in the archives.
i want to know what my child is going to face.
then you have on of those 'feelings.' it was called: 'love.'
it is a ...baby.
what is your name, boy?
do not just stand there gapin' jonathan. can not you see he is cold?
well - gotta change that tire if were gonna get home.
all of us.
the good lord works in mysterious ways.
he sure as heck does that.
all these years, happy as we have been, how i prayed and prayed he would see fit to give us a child. and just when i finally accepted my bitter lot...  no one must ever know.
folks'll ask question.
we will say he is a child to my cousin in north dakota, and just now orphaned.  poor thing.
guess I would better hitch up the rig and come back to get that...that thing he was settin' in. what do you make of that thing? martha? you listening?
i was thinkin' what to call him. i was thinkin' i had an uncle who was a fine man, you recall him? the church sexton
who? clark? i never cared two hoots for that fella.  jonathan jr. that is got a ring to it.
we do not want a child called 'junior,' am not that so, clark? why sure it is.
got all a's this year. teacher said he is the best 5th grader in the -
do not brag now,  jonathan.
clark...son...that...thing you did with the sheriff today... those...stunts...you do not do those things at school, do you?
no, mom. you know i would not break my promise.
i know you are a good boy, clark. no mother could ask for better. it is just that...
oh, dear. that is not what i --
what your mother means, clark, is that she do not want folks to think you are special.
i bless the day you came to us, son. you know that. but some people would not understand.
do not worry, mom. i know.
anyway, we kent's do not like showoffs, am not that so? a body's got to be humble even if he knows that he is better'n his neighbors.
mom...
i know.
i talked to ben hubbard this morning. he will be more than glad to bring in the crops on shares.
he is a good man, ben is. your father always said so.
mother...
i know son, i know...
do you know where you are headed?
north. it is north
keep warm now.
i will.
what are you writing, lois?
an ode to spring. are there one or two "t's" in bloodletting?
two.
'and the people on the street, the little man who runs the corner newsstand, the old lady sunning herself on the stoop the kids playing stick ball -- none of them will ever forget the night of senseless bloodletting that turned a friendly block part into a nightmare.'
boy!
gets you where you live, huh?
how come you get all the good stories, lois?
it is because I am an intrepid girl reporter, jimmy.  besides, the chief of detectives has the hots for me.
need i ask who is favored to collect at the end of this week.
on the salary he pays me, i can not make my rent without it.
here's the story on that east 19th street murder spree. page one with a banner headline seems about right to me.
it does, huh?  clark kent, I would like you to meet lois lane.
I would like to.
well!
I will bet you have some good ideas.
hey, you are getting a better class of people in your office these days, boss.
lois, take kent there and introduce him around
okay, but...why?  no offense.
your bookie?
no.
i know. he sends a check every week to his dear gray-haired old mother.
actually, she is silver-haired.
not...gray.
not really, no.
are there any more at home like you?
not really, no.
well, how are you enjoying your first day on the job?
i think i lost a week's salary at the dart board.
some people are not the athletic type.
but otherwise it is swell.
'swell.' when  was the last time i heard anybody say  -  where are you from , anyway?
see? did not i tell you this was a tough town?
unbelievable.
not in metropolis it isn't. this is the home of the sneak attack, the stab in the back, the --
hey!
what the  --  !
stop him, clark!
he may have a gun!
oh, for god's sake!
it is not worth getting a heart attack over, lois.
you are great with the advice, clark. maybe you would better take over the lovelorn column.
supposing that man had hurt you? is it worth risking your life over ten dollars, two credit cards, and a lipstick? i mean, it is not as if --
know what?
you described the exact contents of my purse.
i just took a shot at it.
i know, but  --
stop saying you know when i say 'y'know.' i know you know.  yes, i know you are here, otis. what do you want, a brass band?
i...uh...
no speeches, otis. just watch what albert has prepared.  what are you waiting for?
you will be designing monuments soon, albert! hotels! palaces!
bunkers!
i take the man out of argentina - and it was no picnic finding him y'know? and what does he think about? bunkers. still living in the past, when i am about to realize the greatest real estate scheme in the history of the world!
you and your real estate.
me and my real estate? how  many other girls, miss teschmacher, are lucky enough to have a park avenue address like this?
it is not a park avenue address. really.
so it is six hundred feet below park avenue, it is still a park avenue address.
why does it all mean so much to you? all the time, 'land, land, land.'
my father always said to me, 'son, do not invest your money in anything but land. land! stocks rise and fall, banks fall, people are no damn good, but they will always need land and for that they will pay through the nose. 'remember that ,' my father said. 'land."
your father was a sick weirdo.
i know that. bu tin this case he was right. arnold 'buster' luthor, the most inept check forger of his time --  a pity he did not live to see his son strike out for the big city. a pity he did not live to see how, from humble beginnings, i created an empire.
this??
compared to what came before? a year of living in the sewers?  a part of that will always be with me.
so I have noticed.
criers and complainers! that is what i get! moaners and groaners! me, lex luthor, who figured out how to live in luxury without ever paying one cent in taxes. lex luthor, who built this fantastic kingdom under the sea, so to speak, hidden and undetected by the fools who eke out their miserable lives on the streets above.
streets, sunlight. when was the last time i saw sunlight.
you will be seeing stars in a minute, miss teschmacher. y'know?
even that would be an improvement.
now then, otis. did you get what i asked for?
yessir. just what you wanted.
there.
not there!  a pine tree in death valley? idiot! this is for the north woods section!
did i do good, mr. luthor?
excellent, otis.  but what took you so long?
what is the matter, otis?
matter? with me? nothing's the matter.
otis, were you up to your old tricks?
i broke the man out of prison --
I will always be grateful, mr. luthor.
i gave him steady employment --
I will never forget you for that, mr. luthor.
i gave him this new face.
i...uh...check.
and now he lies to me. he has been stealing ladies' purses again.  have not you? have not you, you miserable petty crook?
i guess i...uh...regressed.
speaking of feeding things, what about dinner?
what about dinner? i have to worry about the crime of the century, that is all. y'know? am i supposed to worry about what is in the refrigerator, too?  what is in it?
there is some slice american cheese...and...a half a bottle of club soda, i think.
wonderful. otis will go above and steal some big macs.
again???
first the pets, otis.
ahhhh, my favorite part of the day. who else could have thought of this aquarium?
nobody else.
shut up, apple-polisher.
please...
otis...
lois, the kickback story...
nine to five it is a pulitzer prize, i know.
i was going to say that there is only one 'p' in subpoena. what the hell did you major in at radcliffe? middle english?  nice job on the teamster's update, kent.
what now, my love?
huh?
big night coming up?
oh, not really. i guess I will just watch a little tv and --  --  unless...would you be interested in dinner?
thanks, clark, but I am booked for the night.
oh.
it is not what you think. darn it. I am going out on a story. the secretary of defense is landing at the airport tonight and this kid's going to be there to make sure he answers a few questions he would rather duck.
do not you ever give up?
for what? oh, I have see the way the other half lives. my sister, for instance. it looks terrific, but is that what i really want? three kids, two cats, and fifteen needlepoint pillows? I would go bananas after one week. hell, i need this crazy existence of mine.  like i need the plague, right? that is what your thinking.
no. I am just thinking that you smoke too much, if you do not mind my saying so.
there is no real proof that tobacco  --
lois, you should see what the inside of your lungs look like.
can i take you to the airport?
not unless you can fly.
come again?
easy now, miss, I have got you???
you have got me? who is got you???
do as i say. let go!
oh, god! I am going to die!
not while I am around you are not. c'mon...
who...who...
let's just say I am a friend.  and watch yourself from now on with those things, okay?  i mean if the good lord wanted people to fly he would have given them wings.
i do not know what to say.  look, i -- i just -
enjoyed it?
i guess i got carried away
my son, i foresaw this. i knew -
no! you could not imagine -
how good it felt!
how good it felt -
....to feel yourself. very well. you are revealed to the world. but still you must keep your secret identity. first of all, you will need it as an escape valve. you cannot be special twenty-eight hours a day -
twenty-four.
or twenty-four as it is in earth time. furthermore, if you will reveal yourself, your enemies will have a way of getting at you where you are vulnerable: by hurting the people you care for.  ah, this earth...this world you live in, kal-el...  resist its temptations, its rewards, especially its political system.
there are none of them any good anyway.
and it is forbidden for you to interfere with human history. all you can do, kal-el, even now that you have...found yourself...is help them to evolve. set an example. show them they must strive towards the light. and... remember us...
i needed this, y'know? i really needed this. just when I am nearing the fruition of my project, big bird flies into town.  go ahead! kill me by inches! put me on the agony rack!
you think he is for real?
he is from another world.
is that real enough for you?
it is for me.
y'know? I am sure of it. y'know? and there is a strong streak of goody- goody in him that is going to blow this deal for me if i do not do something about it.  something!
I am telling you, i was there.
you were probably so scared you did not look to see what the trick was.
it was not a trick!
oh sure. a man flies in the sky like a pigeon and it was not a trick.
clark kent, if you had only seen it the way i did, you -
it was done with wires. they must have rigged him like they do with peter pan.
there were not any wires. i looked.
mirrors, then. it is done with mirrors.
he grabbed me! he held me! he set me down gently! how could that be done with mirrors?
look, there was probably a trampoline on the roof somewhere and this joker just took a big bounce.
why would he do that? how would he know i was going to suddenly slip.
i do not know, lois, but i do know a fraud when i hear one. this thing goes against all natural laws.
you are just jealous.
jealous? of what?
of this...superman.
what did you call him?
superman.  pretty good name for him, is not it?
is that what they are calling him?
they will once i hang it on him in tomorrow's edition.
super...man. hmmm...
it is not that i still do not like you, clark. it is just that...well, once you have had something like that happen to you, it kind of changes a girl.  I am going to make some coffee. you want some?
no thanks.
nuts. he made it.
tough guy, huh?
bet he makes it.
you are on.
shut up.
i did not say a word.
damn!  this will get him.
place your bets, ladies and gentlemen.,
what is the temperature now?
fifty degrees below and still falling.
when it gets to seventy-five below, stabilize it.
if one of you can get that  -- i mean, i want the real superman. who is he? where is he from? what is his favorite ball team? what is up?
he is. usually.
whoever comes up with that will make woodward and bernstein look like abbot and costello.
oh, what a chance! if i could just  --  get to him.
you are not the only one.
yes, but I am the only one who knows him. i  --  i really like the guy. and he likes me.  i think. i mean, i could talk to him, you know? and he could talk to me.  anytime...
with my luck, now it will rain.
not a chance. it is too nice a night.
superman???
right on the first guess.
wha'...what are you doing here?
i came to talk to you.
the answer is yes. now what is the question?
there is been a lot of confusion in the media about who i am and what I am up to and all that. I would like to set the record straight. with your help.
this is incredible. i was just sitting here trying to figure out how to contact you. i mean, you do not have an answering service, right?
unlisted number, shall we proceed?
well...flashlight?
i think you will be able to remember it. i doubt you will misquote me.
if i do, you can punish  me. fly me to bermuda and just lave me there for two weeks.  this is fantastic! i wish clark were here.
who is clark? one of your colleagues?
not exactly. he is kind of a rewrite man. actually, he is a bit dull, if you know what i mean.
oh, I have got to get some matches.  my cigarette.
I would appreciate it if you did not smoke.
oh.  well, where do we start?
ask, you are the girl reporter.
okay. let's start with these strange powers of yours.
you think they are strange?
i did not mean that in any pejorative way.
i guess they are a little odd.
well, i mean it is not everybody that can deliver an air mail letter without putting a stamp on it.
i would not do that. it is against the law.
oh.
the reason i can fly is because my molecular structure is so constituted that i have a lighter density under earth's gravitational force.
it must feel great.
it is not bad.
how old are you?
thirty-five.
how much do you weigh?
195 pounds.
what about this x-ray vision of yours?
what about it?
can you really see through anything?
uh-huh.
is it true you are impervious to pain?
yes. although i can get a headache just like anyone.
do bullets really bounce off you?
only when somebody shoots them at me.
what color underwear am i wearing?
pink.
can you actually fly faster than the speed of sound?
sure.
do you like pink?
very much.
where do you hail from?
well, i was born on a planet your scientists do not know too much about. it is in the xeno galaxy. or it was. it was called krypton. that is k-r-y-p...
krypton!
krypton? the place where superman comes from?
some people can read 'war and peace' and come away thinking it was a simple adventure story. other people can read the ingredients on a chewing gum wrapper and come away with the secret of the universe.  y'know.
i read the article.
exactly, miss teschmacher.
see?
see? i see. it is you who do not see. does not see. i cannot believe it! how you people fail to grasp the long-range significance of this! y'know?
I am going to bed.
stay and listen!  besides, it is twelve in the afternoon. this is no time to go to bed.
mr. romance...
deductive reasoning, my friends! that is the name of the game. what does it say here?
that the planet blew up on may 23, 1937. that the rocket ship with the revolting little freak in it took three years to reach earth. ergo?
he is thirty-five years old.
you are a great architect, albert.
thank you.
otherwise, you are a mongoloid idiot.  it is reasonable to assume that fragments of the planet were shot out into space by the force of the explosion, and  --
meteorites!
bingo!
ahh. 'national geographic." in my day, this made 'playboy" look like mother goose.
i do not mean to denigrate your misspent youth, lex, but what does that rock have to do with --
tune me in , lady. an explosion such as the one superman describes would have altered the molecular structure of the krypton rock.
i know I am going to get rapped in the mouth for saying this, but so what?
no, you are going to get kissed,
but, to someone from the planet krypton, this substance would be lethal because of its high level of radioactivity. kryptonite! ah, kryptonite! that is the stuff!
you mean bullets and fire and all that can not hurt him, but this kind of rock --
will kill him! and I am going to have a piece of the rock! miss teschmacher, pack your --
breathe that air, miss teschmacher.
i will as soon as i get the sand out of my nose.
well, gents? what did i tell you? it is a piece of cake.
it is a twinkie, boss.
they are killing me by inches!  go ahead! make me suffer! milk me dry.
maybe it is being polished or something. maybe they are cleaning it.
cleaning a rock, otis?  jot it down. as soon as we are back, he feeds the pets.
oh, mr. luthor...
you are happy, are not you?
la de da da...
you are not going to tell us why you are happy, are you?
the door jam, miss teschmacher. this ethiopian shmendrick here, in his simple, unconscious way, needed something to wedge the door open, the better to inhale the flies that form such an  important part of his diet. so he grabs something from the table...
we just take it?
what do you suggest, my dear?
the least we can do is leave him another door jam.
ah! the guest of honor at last! and about time, too!
we are running out of smoke.
what is this??!
makes cecil b. demille look like the senior class play, right?
but...why?
but mr. luthor, sir, i already  --
and stop interrupting. his is the big scene.  your finest hour! you rose to the challenge, baby! and you lost. that is the best part!
listen...thank you.
you too.  i just...i can not get it on for good guys. y'know?
you would better get a new alarm clock. the chief has been hollering for you.
I have been on the job.
a hot story, huh?
it was hot, yes.
you and lois, you get all the action.  there she is, out in the wild west and everything.
lois is not here?
she is in california. that is wild enough, i guess.
what is she doing in california?
it is for that piece she is doing on women and competition. she is off to the women's western golf classic.
i still do not get it.
ah, dear simple otis. albert explain it to him.
it is very simple, otis.  very simple, the xk101 rocket. it is nothing, forty years ago we in the fatherland were working on this. five more years, we would have had it. but then  --  --  that silly war...why, my cousin werner had already  --
albert!
--  thought about a rocket that carries a nuclear warhead in its nosecone and can strike with an impact of  --
yes, so, well, werner would have gotten to that too but  --  --  but the xk101 flies only eight feet above the ground...well below the radar limit!  so what? we could have done that soon. we had ways to make people ta-- ways to avoid the radar. and this xk101  -- they think it is so smart that they keep it in 'missile silos' underground. hah!  we kept many things underground.
one of them should have been you.
yes, mr. luthor. the xk101 can travel anywhere in the world undetected. it also has a sensory device built into it so that it can detect any obstacle in its path and avoid it. it just goes around it or over it.  the xk101 never quits! it will not stop until it reaches its pre-targeted target!
got it? otis?
sort of.
good enough for you. now then --  --  tell me something i like to hear. as many times as i hear it...
me?
not you.  you.  tell me again.
about vesuvius. about superman writhing in the bowels of the volcano.  ahh, the look on his face when he saw that kryptonite. when will i see another, y'know? y'know?
i do not like to talk about it, lex.
weak sister.  i still can not figure out why it took so long for you to catch up with us after we all ran out. y'know?
you ever try to run in high heels?  you probably did.
is that an innuendo, miss teschmacher? because if it is, you are about to experience the heady thrill of being hurled from a moving vehicle.
ready?
ready.
they stop for nothing.
but if i put my leg out like claudette clobert in  --
nothing.
do not let me down.
you?! how about me?
you have two minutes and thirty- two seconds.
no news is not good news. y'know
there was a recipe on the back  --
something you can feed the pets, perhaps?  let's have it.
you are not going to hit me?
hit you? a clever girl like you?  'he turned slowly, slowly in the lava...' was how you described it. now that is clever.  i have to hand it to you.
i knew you would hit me.
you have been under such a strain. and I have ...i've --  -- neglected you. mea culpa! y'know.
i know...
she knows. clever, very clever.  and unappreciated. but I am going to take you away from all this.
a night on the town instead of under it?
baby -- I am going to take you higher.
i do not understand.
yours not to reason why, miss teschmacher. relax! enjoy it!  just look at that smog!
this all has something to do with superman, does not it?
your volcano chum? your junior life-saving buddy?  let's get high.
i did not bring any  --
oh. why? does he live up here?
not exactly. but it is his kind of neighborhood.
what are you going to do to him?
nothing, nothing. i just want to invite him to tea.
tea?
you got wax in your ears?
what if he does not show up? what if he is taking a nap?
he always shows up when somebody is in danger.
danger??  somebody??? lex  -- where are you going?
lex is going bye-bye.
where is mine?! where is my parachute?
miss teschmacher, superman is a fairly bright individual. my understanding of the way he works is that he will not be fooled by a simple trick.
good. fine. now where is my parachute?
I am wearing it.
i mean the other one!
what other one?
you can not do this to me!
of course i can. i love you.
you! the girl from the volcano!  kryptonite...
help! i mean  --  i can not stop saying it. silly, is not it  -  there is nothing to worry about. help! see.
what are you doing here?
screaming
besides that.
he wants to see you. lex luthor.
the bald man! the one who tried to kill me?
the way you describe him does not really do him justice.
I would better get you down.
could not we forget the plane? you could lift me in your big strong arms?
sure, and let the plane crash in the middle of the city.
oh.
look, lady, you saved my life once. i owe you a favor. but i can not understand why you follow a man like that.
what can i tell you? he is my leader.
okay.  take me to your leader.
well  --  you have got me! what can i say?
plenty! about 'the crime of the century,' remember?
oh, that. listen  --  you are busy  --  and it is a long story --
this is california. the richest, most populous state in america. and growing like a sonofagun.
i do not need a geography lesson, luthor.
no, superman, of course not. you do get around, do not you.
it is just that  --  i spent a fortune on these things!  and all for naught! what a waste  --
of time, luthor.
right, right. where was i? ah, yes --
at the san andreas fault. maybe you have heard of it.
sure. it is the joining together of two land masses pushed together eight million years ago. the fault line itself is unstable and always shifting, which is the reason you get earthquakes in the california area from time to time.
could not have said it better myself.  now all this  --  --  west of the fault is the most expensive real estate in the world. los angeles. san diego. san francisco. and here  --  --  is just hundreds and hundreds of miles of cheap desert land. land that happens to be owned by lex luthor enterprises. well...  ...call me a fool, but ...it did occur to me that if a conventional five hundred megaton bomb were to explode at exactly the proper stress point --  --  that would trigger the upheaval that would cause the san andreas fault to 'do its thing.'  ah, it would have been so nice, y'know...
nice! most of california would have been destroyed. millions of people would have been killed! the west coast as we know it would have  --
--  dropped into the sea!  bye-bye california! hello, new west coast! gold coast! my coast.  and now...well...  i left my heart in san francisco...
it would never have worked, luthor. you are a dreamer  --  a sick, twisted dreamer.
maybe i should get help.
it would not hurt. you can not go on living in fantasies. did you really think you could get hold of a nuclear bomb? and drop it?  why, our strategic defense boys would have  --
you are right, you are right, superman. there were wrinkles to iron out. but, well...  ...there is this new rocket, the xk 101.
the xk 101. luthor, that operates on radio waves. and with our fail-safe system, only the president himself can push that button.
i know. i know.  i never promised myself a rose garden.
still, foolishly, perhaps, i had a theory that eliminates the presidential push-button.  i was doing my homework...
on radio waves?
and garbage doors.
luthor  --
you guessed it!  you are always one step ahead of me.  are not you superman?  yes, right. there was a police helicopter buzzing the area and transmitting on the same frequency as the garage doors. the minute the signal went out --  zip!  zip!  zip!
well, that is their problem, t.s. but  --  but the xk 101 also works on a radio wave control system. the problem was to find out the frequency. problems, problems, I have had so many...
they will soon be over.
in a way  -- oh, it will be a relief. I am a wreck. no rest for the wicked, y'know. it was not enough, the radio frequencies, then i had to worry about getting to the missile and adjusting the aiming. so that if i could have activated the launch  -- well, lex luthor would have hit the spot.  there is a little place on route 190. dead on the practice optimum stress point of the san andreas fault. it would not mean much to you, superman, but i call it...target zero.  pancho's taco palace...
well, it is very impressive but you built this junk for nothing.
for the first time today, superman i must tell you that you are wrong.  but how could you know that -  oh, well. i guess i could tell you now. y'see, actually...but this conversation is becoming rather dry, is not it.
now who is the dreamer, superman? even you can not fly that fast!
we will see how fast i can fly.
