jesus.
hi. what is in the case?
you... surprised me.
sorry. I have seen you in here. always lugging that case around.  whatja sell?
ah... restaurant supplies. i did not get your name.
you must travel a lot, huh?
yeah.
whole country or just hereabouts?
i do not mean to be rude, but...
just gettin' a jolt of java before headin' on home?  how does your wife feel about it?
what?
about your being away all the time. must get lonely.
look...
you must get lonely. you ever think about, you know...
excuse me?
you know, you ever think about other women?
what are you...?
fucking. I am talking about fucking, harold. you ever think of fucking other women?
look, mister...
take a look, harold. tell me if you see anything you want. you do like to look, do not you?
my god.
not bad, huh?
you are a... you are sick.
what is wrong with me?
calm down, harold.  okay, here's what we are going to do, harold: there is a pull off up ahead, we are going to stop there.
oh god, mister, please leave me alone.
you are going to miss it. pay attention.
what do you want from me?
I have been looking for you.
why me? what do you want from me!?
welcome back, sir. how was the vacation?
takes four days to chill, then its time to come back.  is that...?
yeah.
good morning, sir. agent salinas, sir.
so you are the new meat?
yes, sir.
what did you do to end up here?
i believe it is in my file, sir.
johnny, get this man's file. mackelway, right?
thomas mackelway.
hot enough for you, agent mackelway? hell's doorknob. what they got you doing?
updating the condition of all bureau- owned vehicles in the southwest sector, sir.
sounds like fun.
"computer investigation and infrastructure assessment center." quantico out of mit -- you are a techie?  okay, you screwed up once. so did half the guys here. that is why they are here.
i screwed up twice, sir.
i see that. washington to philadelphia to here. philly's a nice station. how many agents?
four hundred and sixty, sir.
"attitude adjustment issues" -- what the fuck is that supposed to mean?
i wished to be reinstated at computer crimes. i was undiplomatic in my request.
this is a first. you criticized the deputy director to his face and you still have a badge? you must have some one-of-a-kind skills.  why do not you just quit? i mean, you are not going to get promoted, not wearing this jacket.
i like working for the bureau, sir. i like catching bad guys. it is all i care about.
jesus, just what i need, another blue flamer.  johnny, get this boy some sun screen.
agent duncan, there is an interstate issue up on 54, run out there.
I am babysitting the dea guys this afternoon, casio and i. you said that was top priority.
agent mackelway, you want to get off your ass and do something for a change?
yes, sir.
got a vehicle?  head north on 54. when you get to new mexico you have gone too far.
you run the plates?
fella's name is harold speck, travelin' man out of roswell.
excuse me, a salesman gets done in his car and you call the fbi?
well, the victim was killed at the turn-around over there, then his car was pushed over here...  ...right across the state line. that makes it federal. this is officer wallace, he is out of alamogordo.
where is the nuevo american diner?
ten miles back on the texas side.
agents duncan, mackelway.  anything new?
just mopping up. nine bodies in all.
anybody talk to the press?
no, sir.
the diner?
headed there now. the same shift will be on at noon.
this case has sent bells and alarms ringing all the way to washington. your old boss is coming out.
koessler?
the same.
the man who was with him, he was a construction worker?
yes.
what did he look like?
i did not wait on him. fifty or so, white, regular build, needed a shave -- that is all i remember.
how did you know he was a construction worker?
he had an orange hat on.
i hope that was not a joke because i can assure you, from personal experience, the fbi does not have a sense of humor.
that is right, jan.
he was sitting here?
it is been wiped down a hundred times since then.
there was a car in the lot when we closed. gone today.
what kind?
an old junker. like a reservation car. blue, side door with brown, you know, primer paint. new mexico plates. a ford or ah, yeah, a ford.
put a bolo out on that.
nine bodies in roswell, now this -- it is getting a little hairy, huh?
I would appreciate it if you kept this to yourself.
i know how the feds like to sit on information. i got something in the car to show you.
her name is karen sumpter, from near dell city. just disappeared a couple weeks back. vanished.
you are thinking...?
who knows.
this is not in our database?
i just assumed she ran away. happens a lot around here. look around. this place is an invitation to run away.
ligature strangulation, just like his victims. a cord, nylon, you can tell by the indentation signature -- again, like his victims.  look at that little thing and look at all the trouble it got him in. should have cut it off.
I am not in the mood for native american wisdom.
we had to bring staff in from the whole county to handle this.
i appreciate it, doctor. you know how it is, press screaming for answers, washington's all over me.  ever handle a serial case?
no.
hope you never do. at first it feels like a sauna, by the time you hit victim four it is a fucking burning shirt factory.
chuck, hello.  this is agent kulok. she has a background in medical forensics.
just an observer.
be my guest, agent kulok, scrub suits are in the back.
this is agent mackelway.
speck's the killer all right. we got box loads of evidence. did 'em all the same way: torture, strangulation. prostitutes. i do not think we will be able to write off any outstandings on him -- this is probably the full body count.
what about his killer?
nada. vague description, that is all. fine-tooth-combed speck's car, the diner: no fingerprints, no trace evidence.
what is with the eyelids?
ripped off. by hand, my guess. perimortal: victim was alive at the time, there is blood on his throat.
that is the thing. do not know if it connects, but harold here had a thing about eyes. two of the victims had their eyes gouged out, another punctured. took polaroids after.
you have the photo from the diner?
at the field office.
let's take a look at it.  drop off my stuff at the hotel after you are done here.
thanks for the ride.
they sort of got me on shit detail, no offense.
none taken.
maybe i should not put it that way. I am on my best behavior. I have got to watch what i say.
you used to be in the behavioral science unit, right?
the academy, then ciiac.
i read your white paper. it is sort of like the bible for what they are trying to do in computer crime.
how long have you been downtown?
five months. i love it.
you work with koessler?
not especially.
why did he come out here? what is going on?
beats me. he just asked me to come along, double-check the forensics.  what did you do to piss him off?
this is a sexy case.
yeah, you know the vic's car, he was killed this side of the state line, the car then pushed across the border. this by an unknown subject, presumably the killer, who left no fucking evidence except the snapshot, which may or may not have been accidental.
does not fit.
this is no random killing, no one shot deal. the unsub has killed before; he is good at it. so what do we have?  we have someone who has killed before who kills someone who kills: a serial killer of a serial killer -- and who wants the fbi to know he exists.
and who kills in the manner of his victim.
that information's being withheld from the media.
a very sexy case.
we did not know speck was a serial, the police did not know, his wife did not know -- so how did the killer know?
maybe cause he is smart.
smarter than us.
look, sorry. do not say a word.  i know this is improper. I have been trying to speak with deputy director koessler. i left a message. i must speak with you before you go back to washington.
this better be important.
i think i talked to him.
who?
speck. harold speck.
from the grave?
mydick.
"mydick?"
mydick. as in my dick. that was his screen name.
i don't...
eight, nine months ago. when i was at computer crime. i got into a chat room with someone named mydick. I would talked to him before. everything i saw yesterday, everything in the autopsies, it is identical. the forensics are dead on. mydick's fantasies involved a hog-tie rig, nylon cord, torture with pliers, rip the nipples -- when the "item" screams, she chokes. he had a thing about eyes, always the eyes -- stab their eyes. it is the same guy. speck was mydick.
speck is dead.
i talked to him.
I will relay this to ciiac.
they do not know how to crack these secret chat rooms --
i might point out, agent mackelway, the reason we have not been able to crack those rooms is that you refused to share that information with us -- which is also why you were reassigned.
i had gotten their trust. we were sharing fantasies. i could not risk it.
the federal bureau of investigation is not based on personal preference. we share information.
let some by-the-book j. edgar agents go into the chat room, spook these guys with stupid questions, blow my cover? -- no way.
you refused to comply with a direct order.
i was lucky to find, much less crack, the address code -- no way to be sure i could have done it again.
its called insubordination.
then why do i still have a badge?
agent mackelway.
mack, this is sheriff dylan.
oh jesus, sheriff, i am sorry. i meant to call you -- i got distracted -- the sumpter girl was not one of speck's victims. that is the good news.
what is the bad news?
you tell me.
no bad news. you know the be on the lookout you asked me to send on the diner car -- we got a hit on it. a little town on the border, socorro. we got it staked out -- you interested?
I am on my way.
hey, sheriff.
down the road a piece is the golden sunset, the no-tell motel, socorro's contribution to international relations. the car's just sitting there, no activity. I have had a couple hispanic officers casing it all day. want to take a look?
what does the manager say?
i sent a female in. the room in question was rented by an anglo, cash; since then, nothing -- no activity, no phone response.
let's take a look.
the room key's in the car. on the seat.
and it is getting dark. I am not going to run this into the night.  eddie, we are walking in. everything covered?
show's over, boys. nobody home.
tape it off, we will want to fine-tooth- comb it. my guess is that the unsub is having us on. he checks in, pays, picks up the key, but never walks inside. tell me if I am wrong.
got a sister like this, what they call it, anal? that is her.
how did you know speck was a killer?
the little piggie speaks.
who are you?
I will give you a little hint. you are a smart guy, figure it out.
how do you feel, agent
pretty embarrassed, to be honest. i had him.
agent kulok and i were in o'hare when we heard.
he got away. i had him. he got away.
do you think he singled you out?
no, just coincidence. he knew who i was, of course. he had my id -- did he keep it?
some kids found you in a garbage dump.
where is my watch? it is gone.
the cut on your arm -- mind if we remove the bandage?
go ahead.
he said it was a clue?
maybe something to do with zorro.
do not say that. do not even think that. the next thing we will be hearing about "zorro killer" in the media -- this has not gotten out, has it?
just hospital talk. nothing that connects to speck.
this could all be a coincidence, but, you know something, i do not believe in coincidences. that is why i came back.  do you think the unsub -- we are not going to mention the word zorro -- met harold speck online?
yes i do.
it explains a lot.
but why attack an agent?
he wants us to know he is out there, what he is doing. it is not enough just to kill somebody like speck, he wants us to know he did it.
agent mackelway, you are going to get your wish. you are going back to washington. i want you back in computer crimes. fire up those chat rooms.
this time, sir, if i may be so bold, would it be possible to set up my equipment outside ciiac, perhaps in military housing at quantico? i did not get along very well with the other members of the division. we thought differently.
you did not like anyone looking over your shoulder -- why was that? what were you doing?
if my reporting agent could be someone outside computer crimes, perhaps agent kulok?
I will take it into consideration.
what i do requires confidentiality.
i always meant to ask, what is it that makes you so special? why is it you have this special rapport with multiple killers? why you?
they like my stories. they like the way i think. they are into fantasy. i turn them on.
relax.  j. edgar's greatest fear: a female with a badge.
the man knew how to dress.
do not even go there. what is up?
setting up. technically, anyone in a chat room can be traced back to a screen address. but, by using punters, a correspondent literally punts his address around the world, through computers in countries that have no communication treaties. the correspondent becomes "ghosted," invisible.
what about the chat rooms themselves?
that is the beauty of the system. this is a fugitive chat room. it moves from place to place, chat rooms that are normally empty at certain hours: a gardening website, chaucer buffs, a dating service. a pre- arranged code shows up in one of fifty porn rooms -- that is where i stumbled across it -- notifying "friends" to meet at a certain time, usually midnight to three eastern standard, at a certain website -- a deserted chat room, say, "how to plant perennials." come tuesday, twelve a.m., bingo, these like-minded deviates log on and start yakking it up: explicit sex crime gossip, who did what to whom, who wants to do what, when, why and how.
that is part of the reason i dropped by. i need to learn this stuff.
the other reason?
you want to have dinner?
working the net is not that different from ordinary undercover work. you go into the community, walk their walk, talk their talk, gain their confidence.
they are all criminals?
no, no, no, most of them -- i used to think all of them -- are just fantasists, guys who get off telling degrading stories. when i came across this fugitive chat room, listened in, i started to think some might actually be real, that they would gone live. the challenge was to figure out which was which. then i had my disagreement with koessler.
"gone live?"
chat jargon for moving from fantasy to real victims: "i went live last month."
this is some serious shit.
taking a stryker saw, cutting off the top of someone is cranium, pulling the brain out -- what is that, a day in spring?
you got a point there.
people end up in occupations for a reason. they may think not, but they do: occupations define us.
i was going to be a physician, i am a physician, but i kept drifting over to criminal psych. this seems to be the best of both. my parents still have not forgiven me.
i was interested in two things: computers and crime. they sort of came together.
and one other thing.
what is that?
sex.
look at this fellow... or this one.
grown man dressed like a clown. does he really think he looks good?
he thinks he looks young.
what is this country coming to?
take it to the next level. what are his fantasies, what turns him on, what kind of pornography does he like? if he could act out his fantasies, what would he do? imagine yourself one of his victims, realizing your life is in his hands. what is he thinking?
my guess: he is wondering whether to get more fries or go straight to the chocolate sundae.
every cop has a story and every story has a girl. the girl in my story was fifteen years-old. she wore a pink angora sweater -- i can still see it -- one day, she disappeared. i told the police she would not run away, i told them who to look for, but i was just a kid. i sat in the police station crying and crying. my parents took me home. the girl was my cousin and the man who abducted her was a teacher I would had. he kept her alive a week before he killed her. the police could have saved her. every time i see a photo of a victim i see her. that is what i want to do. i want to save her.
me too.  make any headway with "zorro"?
none. can not find a thing. nothing on file, nothing online. it is not a part of any known killer's signature.
i was thinking, maybe we should ask professor daitz. nobody knows this stuff better.
that is because he is a fucking wacko. never met a self-promotion scheme he did not like. what is he doing now?
he is a consultant to a network tv program on profilers. he gets a check every episode.
[fantasy time, girls, give it up, give it up.]
lionheart here. I am back. sorry about the absence. i had to do some therapy at the crossbar hotel.
have you had a chance to think about --
zorro. yes, ran it through my files, even asked around: came up completely blank. thought there might be a mexico connection, el paso and all, but nothing. fooled around with the letter "z," turned it on it is side, got "n" -- there ng, he is vietnamese. the only thing that came to mind was zero, not zorro. remember suspect zero?
no.
before your time. it was richard low's brainchild, or, lack-of-brain child. the behavioral sciences unit at quantico is essentially the product of three men: david koessler, dick low and myself. low was a field agent, koessler administrative, i was teaching criminology. low came up with the concept of a serial killer's signature. he invented profiling. everything we know about profiling started with richard low...
...well, there was some friction: i wanted to write up my work, educate the public, but koessler would not allow it. low felt koessler was more interested in career advancement than catching killers. koessler had low reassigned to the pacific northwest, seattle. you know when they say, stick it where the sun do not shine? that is where they stuck dick low.
pacific northwest is a hotbed for serials.
you got that right. low became obsessed with the green river murders, the case had been inactive for ten years at that point. he argued the green river killer had actually become suspect zero, this master murderer who killed without pattern, killed literally hundreds of victims -- male, female, old, young, straight, gay -- and who was still killing, even though there were no bodies. it went against everything we knew. low became increasingly paranoid. every suspect was potentially suspect zero. anybody tried to talk sense into him, he would accuse them of being out to get him. deputy director koessler was "out to get him." the decision was made to relieve him.
does koessler know about the suspect zero theory?
of course. he knows everything about dick low.
i ever get like that, just take me out in back and shoot me.
do not be too harsh.
i saw him on a talk show once, talking about these killers like they were his friends. not the victims, not the families of the victims, he does not talk about them. blood money, that is what it is.  did he hit on you?
huh?
when you were his student? did he come on to you?
of course he did. he came on to every attractive student. which bothers you most: that he exploits suffering or that he came on to me?
you must really think I am a square, a computer nerd.
no, mack, i do not think you are a square and definitely not a nerd.
why did koessler assign you as my liaison?
because you asked him to, stupid.
oh yeah, i forgot.
there are agency regulations about this.
"intra-agency fraternizing."
it is a no-no.
i know.
I have been thinking about this.
does koessler ask about me?
he is called a couple times.
what did you tell him?
just routine stuff.
not about coming to see daitz?
not yet. not about this, either.
[reality very risky.]
whatever happened to mydick?
you feeling okay, agent mackelway?
had trouble sleeping last night, sir.
okay, harold speck: who goes first?
nothing concrete. nothing i'd... well, nothing.
i do not believe this.
I am hesitant to...
mack the mouth at a loss for words.
"murman" was the alter identity of william heirens, the original "catch me before i kill again" killer. short for "murder man." it was the case that got richard low and i started in this field.
i spoke with lloyd daitz.
that gasbag. i can imagine what he said. I am not ashamed to admit that most of what i know about criminal profiling started with richard low. i have also, over the years, i admit, taken credit for many of his accomplishments. he was the most brilliant law enforcement individual i ever met.
"was?"
we had every reason to believe he was on that plane. he was supposed to be on the plane. everything was incinerated, it was two weeks before we reached the crash site. we, the director and i, decided it was in everyone's best interest to declare dick low dead. that way he could exit a hero.
you suspected all along, suspected he was alive. that is why you came to el paso.
dunlevy said there was another case, ron rice. in fact, there were two earlier cases where serials were murdered. the second was george sheldon. i did not enter it into vicap -- I will get you the file.
how long ago?
both in the last year. i suspected only someone as brilliant as dick low could find these guys.  look, whatever daitz told you, nobody wanted to strip richard of his badge. you have to get close to be good at what he did, the trick is not to get too close.
you knew the arm slash was not "zorro."
i suspected, but you were the one low contacted. that is why i brought you back here.
what did you think of the suspect zero theory?
it was neither a valid concept nor a valid fact. suspect zero came to represent every killer dick low had not caught. the idea took root in his head like a wild irrational vine. for someone like low, there would always be a suspect zero. we could not let richard go where that idea was taking him.
sorry to interrupt you, sir, but i thought you would like to know.
what?
we have another one.
another what?
serial killer killed. in ft. myers. cut up in his van. and this time we got a witness.
was this him?
um... he was older.
besides that.
to be honest, when I am working, i do not look at faces much. he knew the guy's name.
testa?
the bearded guy, the creep. oh, one other thing. testa, if that is his name, he kept mentioning my feet. said i had very pretty feet.
find the feet?
no. cut off while he was still alive, look at his wrists, damn near ripped his hands off trying to get free. must have been screaming real loud when the killer chain-sawed his throat. unfortunately, he would soundproofed his van.
we got an unsub walking around with four feet?
we did find these, however.
jesus.
we are trying to match them with dump site bodies.  this we know is carol delview from tampa, found her last spring. this one --
the tattoo?
sue ann hanson.
you mean --
you found the body. she was one of harold speck's victims. in el paso.  they are not just talking to each other, mack, they are trading souvenirs.
did they disconnect testa's computer?
not yet. this time they are waiting for you.
i got a look in testa's computer. his screen name was "imelda." have to give him that, had a sense of humor.
collected shoes too?
you should have seen the store manager at parade of shoes. she was inconsolable.
murman and imelda had been slipping into a private chat room. low had poor old testa drooling on the keyboard. abduction fantasies, voyeurism, mutilation, teasing him with fetish elements. he is very good. i think it is safe to say richard low is murman.
we are waiting for trace evidence results on the rice killing.
we need to put out an ncic inquiry.
how do you send out an apb on a dead man?
huh?, sir.
i want to catch dick low, more than you can imagine, but i cannot risk going public. what happens when the media finds out that a former fbi special agent, a founder of the behavioral sciences unit, is not dead, but instead alive and killing people, not ordinary people, but, even worse, serial killers, making him some sort of white knight vigilante?  you keep at it. we will find him, we will find him in our own way.
mack, I am sorry. i apologize. i should have called. i had no right to sneak in on you like that.
no, jaime, i apologize. i didn't... i had no right to speak to you like that.
i came over because i could not sleep and was lonely. i wanted to see you. i thought I would surprise you.
you did.
maybe we should back off a bit.
i can't. they trust me, they accept me. I have got their confidence.
no, i mean maybe we should back off a bit, you and me.
oh.
there is the agency issue. i think koessler may suspect something already. we are not on the best footing with him as it is.
that is true.
then there is the other issue.
what is that?
you need time to think. about the case, about you and me.
i found a peephole into deviant world. I am going to reach in and yank some of those creeps out.
and nobody else can do that?
not the way i can.
that is my point. remember, you are a cop pretending to be a deviant. it is not the other way around.
do not confuse what we do with who we are.
i just need to go a little slow.
[lionheart, what happened?]
something came up, murman, my man.
[you want to talk, lionheart, or you want to take this a little more personal?]
lead the way, murman.
[follow me.]
I have been to chicago.
[not this way. call it a little favor, call it a little thing I am going to do for you. I am going to make chicago come alive for you. you will owe me one.]
if i owe, i will go.
[the address is 147 south rane. it is a lively address. you got a problem with dark meat?]
have not had any, but I am willing to try.
[ask for leslie. eight days from tonight, exactly one a.m. be there if you dare. you cannot fool the murman.]
hello?
jaime? where are you?
where are you? everybody's looking for you.
what is up?
I am in omaha. get to the airport. there is been another one.
my watch. he toyed with me. he sent me to chicago.
you want to get him? find something he wants. get him to come to you.
start killing people for real?
suspect zero.
that is a crackpot theory. everybody says so.
but he believes in it. that is all that matters. he toyed with you, you toy with him. convince him you have got a lead on suspect zero. use zero, you will find low.
[if you wanted a good steak, you should have gone to omaha.]
let's go someplace private, murman, i have something for you.
let's talk about zero.
[hello, agent mackelway. how is the watch? maybe you can do one of those tv commercials, i found my watch under a serial killer's heart and it was still ticking.]
i want to help you.
[not the heart, the watch.]
I have located the suspect zero file. did you know there was one? koessler ordered it as part of your evaluation.
[don't jerk a jerk-off. there is nothing in the bureau mainframe.]
not everything is imputed to memory. the most confidential stuff is kept top secret hard copy. why would the zero file be kept secret?
[you tell me.]
george sheldon? the second serial killer killed in the manner of his killings. the crime scene profile was never entered into vicap. at whose request? david koessler.
[what does the file say?]
i want to go live with you.
[and i want to go back to needlepoint.]
leave this room, I will go back with you, blow your cover.
[i do not think so. we want the same thing. see ya.]
why did you go to chicago?
i was visiting an old college friend.
you did not tell anyone where you were?
an oversight, sir, i apologize. i felt i needed to get away for a day. the pressure. paid for my own ticket.
I am told you have asked for a bureau cross-check of flight records to and from el paso, ft. myers, omaha, the murman murder time frames.
i was looking for a pattern.
that breaks my confidentiality stipulation.
i did not use low's name.
there was talk of a file photo.
in ft. myers before your instruction. nowhere else, sir.
watch out for dick low, he is a liar; he has his own world. there was a junior agent in seattle, not unlike you, an agent who fell under dick's spell. he would have done anything for agent low. richard got this agent to take a suspect to the crime scene, beat him up, force a confession -- all unauthorized, all illegal.  the agent died that night, killed by the suspect. richard low got him killed. worst of all, we had to hush it up, let the suspect go. the suspect was george sheldon, the second man richard killed.
i understand.
as far as the public knows, richard low is dead. and he will stay dead until we kill him.
agent mackelway?
yes.
this is richard low. stay on the phone. do not disconnect. I am watching you. i will instruct you where to drive.
yes, sir.
when you exit, head east on 10th.
dave koessler must have you jumping through hoops.
i believe it is you, sir, who has us jumping through hoops.
how is the arm?
I have been reading, hearing about you. i spoke to koessler, professor daitz.
he could not break an egg with a hammer. he still writing those crime porn books?
he is moved on to tv.
he always had a weakness in that area. i saw it the first time i met him. we all had our weaknesses, i guess. daitz wanted the money. with dave it was the glory. koessler saw the behavioral sciences unit as a stepping stone to bigger and better bureaucratic things. he had his eye on the director's job, even then. catching killers was a means to an end for them.
what was your weakness, sir?
I am not sure, exactly. i had monsters on the brain. i wanted to get these guys, every one of them. i got obsessive.
suspect zero?
deputy director koessler opposed the theory because it meant pressing the legal envelope, risking high-profile failure. better to get rid of me. then he could be mr. serial killer, mr. authority on deviant behavior -- no embarrassing questions about the contribution of one richard low. do you really think that plane crashed by accident? do you really think i was not on it by accident? I have always had a good sense of intuition.
so you went underground?
was i afraid of dave koessler? not likely. i told you, I would gotten a bit obsessive. it was an opportunity to back off, think things through.  where is the file?
i do not carry it with me.
you are a smart guy. tell me what it says.
"agent low's theory of suspect zero, the undetected serial killer, is delusional, the product of good intentions, paranoia and obsession..."
hum a tune and I will sing to it.
the file, however, was kept open after your death. npe disappearances, no plausible explanation, were sometimes filed there, deleted if the bodies were found.
it is my master list of missing persons: men, boys, girls, children over the last ten years. two hundred and eighty-five names. a pool of possible victims.
zero killed them all?
of course not. they are possibles. I have checked them against bureau records, check them against your file. how did you get it?
daitz hinted it existed. it was a matter of forming the request in the proper terms.
after my hiatus, after i got my priorities readjusted, i drifted online, started tracking porn chat rooms, looking for zero. got accepted, came across these boys swapping stories, pictures, downloads. never found zero, but i did come across some class a scumbags.
how do you know who is real and who is not?
and who else did i find? agent thomas mackelway, crackerjack fbi techie. i was greatly disappointed when you were re-assigned.
you knew it was me all along?
please. you can not hide from me, sonny. i invented the questionnaire. i can tell those who talk from those who do it in the time it takes you to fart.
there is someone out there, mack, i know, some man killing for the fun of it, sniffing human glue, without regard to age or sex, without predicable m.o. someone who has a way to dispose of the bodies. you have access, you can call up local authorities, check morgues, conduct interviews. be my man.
i already have an employer.
if you will not do it for me, do it for your cousin, nadine, right? the girl in the pink sweater.
who told you about her?
you did. you were with her when she disappeared, right? she took you to the mall or the movies, you turn around and she is gone.
it was the mall.
i know you, lionheart. i watched your mind work, heard your dirty thoughts --
those were just fantasies.
we are alike. we are hunters. we have the gift. it is ancient times all over again. we stand between order and chaos. i need help. i can not carry on alone.
maybe you should back off.
this guy, zero, he drifts around, that is how they all start, drifting around, their minds filling up with fantasies. he thinks he is real smart, laughs at us, laughs at his victims. but he has left a trail, and the trail is somewhere in those names. you know how to reach me.  take my advice, when dealing with these fbi tight-asses, go by the book. that is what i did.
you? you went by the book?
yeah, problem was, i had the only copy. see ya.
dylan here.
sheriff dylan, this is fbi agent thomas mackelway. remember me?
hi there.
i want to talk about the karen sumpter case.
you heard?
what?
her body turned up. in a minnesota cemetery. they brought her back.
you have the body?
she is buried.
i want the autopsy report, where is it, minnesota?
winona.
this feels like something out of a spy novel.
i guess I am a little paranoid.
what is going on?
i met with richard low.  these are names of missing persons he has flagged. I am double-checking every case, but i do not want to be too obvious about it. i marked the ones I would like you to work on.
slow down a second, you met with low --
you were right. he found me.
and you are working with him?
i need something tangible. to hook him. i told him I would found the confidential file on the suspect zero theory.
does one exist?
probably. i told him koessler had ordered the report, kept it secret.
koessler does not know any of this?
I have decided to investigate low's plane crash. while I am at it, i thought I would look at the cases koessler worked with low.
I would be real careful if i were you.
it is too late for that. I have gone ahead of the curve on this one. there is no turning back. when this is over, koessler is going to be right or low is going to be right or I am going to be right, but not all of us.
it is okay to be wrong, just do not be dead wrong.
they say richard low is wrong, but because of him, women, innocent women, are alive who would be dead.
you are putting me in a difficult position.
i got an autopsy report from el paso that does not seem right. a girl on low's list. karen sumpter. we are getting a court order to exhume to body. I would like you to come and look at it.  do not worry, I have cleared it.
jaime, do you think, when this is all over, when we are in different divisions, you think maybe you and me, we could try again?
mack, I am just trying to keep up with now.
the family has gone through a lot. their daughter missing, the search, her body found, the funeral -- then this order to exhume the corpse.
I am sorry. this will not take long.
the body was embalmed. i do not understand --
turn the body over. there was something in the autopsy report, yes, here.  these burn marks.
a grill pattern.
we need to run this through vicap, search for similar burns.
but why this pattern?
could be a lot of things. depends on the freezer.  I am sorry, mack, but i do not think this is the answer.
tom, you okay?
hardly anyone calls me tom. everybody calls me mack. i always liked that.
you okay?
yeah, of course.
what is going on?
it is quite advanced.
burn marks. the original m.e. listed it as "burn residue." same place, the outer thigh, as karen sumpter. the unsub is able to abduct, kill, transport and bury without detection.
all the same killer?
low calls him suspect zero.
suspect zero is a crackpot theory. you said so.
that is what koessler wants us to believe. to discredit low.
you are assigned, we are assigned, to apprehend richard low, not suspect zero. i have to tell you, mack, I am not comfortable where you are going.
but it was your idea: "use zero," you said, use zero to get low.
i have not changed anything.  damn.
i...
I have got to take a piss.
jaime --
it is a truck. a refrigerated truck.
zero abducts victims all over the country, kills them, keeps them refrigerated for days, weeks, even months, then buries them hundreds, thousands of miles away. karen sumpter was buried, washed up in a flood. evans was buried. when we get zero, we will find boneyards all across the country.
how are we going to find him?
get the routes of all refrigerated trucks over the last ten years. we have got three disappearance cities and dates, three parallel discovery cities. get into the mainframe, let it crunch this information.
there seems to be a discrepancy.
not a discrepancy, an error. my capacity is 5.5 tons, not 6.
i have 6 tons.
mam, it is my truck. i know my own capacity.
you can not imagine how many men have told me that.
it is been customized for sleeping capacity.
oh yes, i see. you must get asked this a lot.
not as much as you would think.
how far is amarillo?
350 miles.
now, mr. hawkins, when last in amarillo, where did you get gas?
locate a jet, we are going to amarillo.
excuse me, agent mackelway?
this man, hawkins, has killed dozens of people. suspect zero.
i do not think you understand.
what is it exactly i do not understand, agent mackelway?
deputy director koessler does not want zero. all he cares about is low.
perhaps you can explain it to him.  it is agent mackelway.
he is got you believing in zero now too.
i need to get to amarillo immediately.
have you told richard low about amarillo?
i can't. the chat room is not open for another five days.
we will wait. get online with low, inform him of zero's route -- we will set a trap for him.
what about zero, darryl hawkins?
hawkins is not the target, richard low's the target.
there is a killer out there -- we know who he is. he could be stalking now.
dick low's a killer too.
you are as crazy as he is! he is right! you do not give a damn about saving lives at all! fuck you!
what happened?
I am going to amarillo.
miss me, dave?
thank you, rangers.  put this man in the unmarked.
agent...
kulok.
agent kulok, could you wipe my face?
do not you touch him.
you better hope the director does not stop abruptly one day, david, you might break your nose.
you are a disgrace to law enforcement, to the bureau -- and to me.
how did a girl like me end up in a place like this?  the deputy director here, he believes in tough love. a cop's cop. shape up or ship out, righto? agent kulok, when you get a chance you might want to check the victims of the recent serials. you will find that some of them have been credited to other killers, some years ago. that is a dave koessler trick, find a pliant sociopath, preferably a dead one, attribute to him unsolved cases, clean up the backlog-looks great in the yearly report.
you are so fucked up.
suspect zero, now there is an idea that does not look good on paper --
when i was at the rest stop, there was a young boy, maybe ten, and his mother. darryl hawkins, zero, abducted the boy in the men's room. i tried to stop him. he cold-cocked me --
listen to this guy? can you believe this? he will never change. born a liar, first word out of his mouth was a lie. make up a story, always a story, any goddamn story, to save his ass.
agent kulok, that boy, as we speak, is in hawkins' truck, probably still alive, in a dark refrigerated compartment, shivering in just a t- shirt: put yourself in his mind, freezing, terrified, wanting his mother. put yourself in his mother's place, desperate, imagining the worst is happening as she pleads, back there at the rest stop, for someone, anyone, to listen to her. this is not hypothetical, this is real. it is happening now and you can do something about it.
shut the fuck up or I will shut you up.
you have to save this boy. good exists in this world. i can prove it because you can, in your life, save this one person.
deputy director, get out, sir.
what are you doing?
please.
mackelway, i could understand. he is over-emotional by nature, but you, agent kulok, you had a shining career in front of you.
just step outside, sir. now. keep your hands where i can see them.
unlock these cuffs.
sit back.
mack must think zero has a police band.
of course he does. now get the key, get these things off me.  unhook me.
uncuff me. what is wrong with you? do not you want to save the boy?
i want to protect the boy. i also want to protect suspect zero -- from you.
I am agent thomas mackelway, fbi. there is no way you will escape. assistant deputy director richard low is en route with another agent.  you may know low by another name. you may know him by the name murman. i am lionheart.
murman!
he is a brilliant man. brilliant enough to catch you.
brilliant? you think he caught any of them because he was brilliant? hardboy? mydick? imelda? ripper? think about it, how did he locate them?  he found them as murman. and how did murder man find them? with sweet talk and brains? no. he did it with souvenirs. he took them into private rooms, swapped goodies: pictures, panties, jewelry, body parts. snuff downloads. as bait. that is why i never exchanged with him. he killed girls, oh yeah, harvested them. he had the best stuff. richard low is murman and murman is one of us.
you want to "profile" me? find out what makes me "tick"? write about me, go on a talk show, give me a nickname?
it is over for you.
take your shirt off.
okay, I will unhook you. no weapon.
no weapon.
turn around. stretch your arms over the seat.
bitch! cunt! please, please, please do not do this, agent kulok. you need me.
I will be back.
is he dead?
yeah.
the boy's okay. i saw him...
was it zero?
yeah.
