that's the third time he's called today.
he wants me to break a leg?
no, an arm, he said.  i told him you were sure the item would be in mr. hunsecker's column in tomorrow's...
it isn't.  i've just seen the early edition.
but...
but what?
that makes five days in a row that mr. hunsecker's cut you out of his column.
may i rent you out as an adding machine.
who else phoned?
the renting agent and the tailor.
pay the rent.  let the tailor wait.
it won't leave much of a balance in the bank...  mr. robard?  could you locate him?
i wish i could help in some way, sidney.
help me with two minutes of silence!
go home, sally.  it's late...
i hate to see you like this --
yes, but as a new subscriber you're under no obligation to take more than three books.  and if you mail the enclosed card within ten days --
sidney, i know you by now.  don't do a dance with me...
you mean you don't want the extra free gift of a colorful giant map of the world???
sidney, please, dear, if you feel nervous...
so what'll you do if i feel nervous? you'll open your meaty, sympathetic arms...?
sid...you got me so...i don't know what...
you ought to be used to me by now.
i'm used to you...
no.  you think i'm a hero.  i'm no hero.  i'm nice to people where it pays me to be.  i gotta do it too much on the outside, so don't expect me to kow-tow in my own office.  i'm in a bind right now with hunsecker so --  every dog has his day!  lock up and leave the key.
if that's for me, tear it up!
take a top coat.
and leave a tip in every hat-check room in town?
don't you ever get messages, eyelashes?  i called you twice.
i've been up to here.  listen, honey, tell me something.  you know susan hunsecker...?  has she been in?  i mean lately, in the last coupla days...?
i don't think so.
you're sure.  find out for me.
sidney, can i talk to you a minute?
is frank d'angelo around?
at the bar - sidney...
joe, give my nephew a drink.
your nephew doesn't want a drink.
that's a lollipop that, boy.  the kid is only great.
and with ten percent of his future, you're great, too, frank.
went over to philly yesterday an' seen the folks...it's nice you send them the fifty a month...
see my mother?
i only had a few hours.
thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit tomorrow.
robard's my client.  i did it for him and his club, not your boys.
frank, i think maybe you lied to me.
looka, sidney, you're my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar?
you told me that your boy was washed up with susie hunsecker, didn't you?
yeah, and it's the truth, to the best of my knowledge.  and, frankly, i'm glad.  for steve's sake, i'm glad, not yours.  i manage these boys and i got their best interests at heart.  steve shouldn't get mixed up with no bimbo at his age.
you told him that?
not in those exact words - you know what a temper he's got.
when do these hot-headed boys of yours go on the road?
coupla weeks.  for eight weeks.
that's a nice tour.  all booked?  when was susie around here last?
four five nights ago.  that's how i know the romance is off.  also steve's in a very bad mood.
listen, frank, you'd better make sure you're telling me the truth.
i don't like this threatening attitude.  when it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl...
this is big, you know.  very big! let's go out later, drink some firewater.  with the boys.  fred can call millie and -
steve, i'd rather you didn't say anything for a day or two...until i tell my brother...
you haven't told him yet...
i'm telling him in the morning after breakfast.
steve, my brother isn't as bad as he's painted.  he isn't perfect, but -
but he isn't going to like this, susie.  and he makes you nervous, not me.  no, i take that back - he makes me nervous, too.  but i wouldn't give him a second thought if not for you.
his stooge, falco, is around - i saw him walk in.  he's been spying on me for weeks, susie.
darling, i don't care - really i don't.  sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business -
but he could be reporting back to your brother, couldn't he?
steve, dear, please forget all of this.  what can it matter after tomorrow?
i have a message for you; i love you.  may i dedicate the next number to you?...and the next, and the next. every sunday i'll buy you a new bonnet -
if the stores are open -
and on monday, i'll take it off and stroke your light brown hair and -
and on tuesday - hasenpfeffer. steve  how do you think i realized i love you?
i made you write a beautiful song...
no, you had me eating that chinese food!...
where's those glossy prints you promised?  tonight's the latest i can place them -
well, thanks, anyway - let's forget it.  it's cold out here, susie.
i get the feeling, falco, that you're always snooping around...
steve, stop it please...
i'm feeling too good to fight with you, but that isn't what i said - i said you snoop.  for instance, what were you doing around my hotel the other night?
begging your pardon, i haven't been down the bowery in years!
come on boys, break it up...
the next time you want information, falco, don't scratch for it like a dog - ask for it like a man!
don't tell me you started a polka with leo bartha?
no.  that's what i mean - i'm being fired for what i didn't do.
avidly.  he was staring.
staring.  consequently, when he approached me on his way out i wasn't surprised, but i didn't let on.
he was writing a special sunday piece on...?
...cigarette girls... and naturally -
you were thrilled to be interviewed.  were you "interviewed"?
in his apartment -
and where was his wife?
i don't know - it's a big apartment. but i wasn't interviewed.  in fact, i was totally unprepared for what happened.
we're old friends, chickie - quit it!  a big columnist comes in this room, without his ball-and-chain and you make like a delicatessen counter!  what did you think would happen in his house?
but, sidney darling, the man must be out of his mind - it was only eleven o'clock in the morning!
do you think you could do something, sidney?
that's what i'm thinking, rita. maybe...
do you still keep your key under the mat?
can you be there by two-thirty?
did she accept?
you don't like it, do you.  i think she will accept, but i'm not sure. she may be too dependent on her brother.
you're touchy, sidney - don't be so touchy...
i wasn't looking for a brawl.  i came to bring him a present.  wanna bite to eat?
feels like a monday night, don't it...?
not to me.  sometimes, the world feels like a cage.  then someone comes along and opens the door...and it's never monday night again...  i wish you and steve could like each other.
we stick in each others craw.
yes, but why?
well, for one thing, he thinks j.j. is some kind of monster.
where do you come off to make a remark like that?
who could love a man who keeps jumping through burning hoops, like a trained poodle?
do you think j.j. likes steve...?
frankly, yes, to my surprise.  he thinks he's very gifted - those boys'll go a big mile, he thinks.
it's given me a big lift to know that some people want me for myself, not just because i'm my brother's sister.
chickie, i'll have to laugh at that - an attractive girl like you...!
i hope that j.j. really likes steve, that it isn't an act.
why should he put on an act?  your brother has told presidents where to go and what to do!
it's not my nature, susie, but i'll talk to you like an uncle...
but i don't need an uncle, sidney.
jimmy!  this is a coincidence.  i am just going -
yeah.  a coincidence you should run into the very man you've been ducking all week!  this is my press agent, joan.
i tried to reach you twice -
what do you do for that hundred a week.  fall out of bed?
jimmy, i'm on my way inside right now to talk to hunsecker.  i can promise you -
joan, call a cop!  we'll arrest this kid for larceny!
listen, when your band was playing at roseland -
that was two months ago.  take your hand out of my pocket, thief!
no more you don't!  what is this - you're showing off for her?  they're supposed to hear you in korea?
he's intuitive - he knows he's getting fired!
if you're funny, james, i'm a pretzel!  drop dead!
how are you tonight, mr. falco?
is "he" inside?
but of course...
alone or surrounded?
a senator, an agent and something - with - long - red - hair.
can i come out?  no.
i have to talk to you, alone, j.j., that's why.
you had something to do for me - you didn't do it.
can i come in for a minute?
no.  you're dead, son - get yourself buried!
mac!  i don't want this man at my table...
i have a message from your sister.
err...the supreme court story, i was telling you - justice black.
yes, the justice, that's right. but i think you had it in the column.
and i believe that's precisely where i read it, too.  you see, j.j., where i get my reputation for being the best-informed man in washington.
now don't kid a kidder.
i know manny davis.
everyone knows manny davis...  ...except mrs. manny davis.
match me, sidney...
not just this minute, j.j....
why don't you answer the man, sidalee?  he's trying to take you off the hook.
you just had a good example of it. a press agent eats a columnists dirt and is expected to call it manna.
what, some cheap, gruesome gags?
you print them, don't you?
yes, with your clients' names attached.  that's the only reason those poor slobs pay you - to see their names in my column all over the world!  now, as i make it out, you're doing me a favor!
i didn't say that, j.j.
the day that i can't get along without press agents' handouts, i'll close up shop, lock, stock and barrel and move to alaska.
now, come, j.j., that's a little too harsh.  anyone seems fair game for you tonight.
this man is not for you, harvey, and you shouldn't be seen with him in public.  because that's another part of a press agents life - he digs up scandal among prominent men and shovels it thin among the columnists who give him space.
there is some allusion here that escapes me...
we're friends, harvey - we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid congressman, don't we?
why does everything you say sound like a threat?
hello, harry.
bonna sera, commendatore.  come sta?
i just checked "downtown".  quiet everywhere tonight.
incidentally, what happened to that doll? - you gave me the item last night.  still alive?
yeah.  at bellevue.  still hanging on.  but they still don't know if she was pushed.
she mighta jumped.  love suicide?  check it for me, phil...it's a real heart throb.
say hello to sidney falco.  tickle him - he's been a bad boy tonight. he called you my fat friend.
i don't believe it.
i know...i know you're the strongest cop in town.
i call him the boy with the ice cream face!
say, that's good - it's nice - in fact, it's apt, harry!
yeah, i got eyes.  i put things together.
i remember once when you didn't quite "put things together".  boy! was the mayor mad!
spahish...that must show he likes "spigs", too.
i like harry, but i can't deny he sweats a little.
you told me you'd break up that romance - when?
you want something done, j.j., but i doubt if you yourself know what's involved.
i'm a schoolboy - teach me, teach me.
why not break it up yourself?  you could do it in two minutes flat.
frankly, j.j., i don't think you got the cards to blitz me.
i don't?
correct me if i'm wrong, but i don't think so...
i'll listen one more minute.
awright, that brings us up to five weeks ago. "sidney, i got a nasty little problem here." did i say no? i'm frank to admit - it don't jell as fast as we like... but all of a sudden i can't get you on the phone no more!  why?... and why, as of this date, am i frozen out of the column...
are you finished?
no, lemme finish.  i don't like this job!  that boy is dumb only on matinee days - otherwise he's got a head.  and susan, like you said, she's growing up.  two heads. what i mean, we got a slippery, dangerous problem here!
not "we", sidney, you!
correct me if i'm wrong - we! because when i'm out on this very slippery limb for you, you have to know what's involved.
ha!  my right hand hasn't seen my left hand for thirty years!
i'll do it, j.j. - don't get me wrong - in for a penny, in for a pound.  i'll see it through, but stop beating me around the head. let me make a living!
what you promised - do it!  don't finagle around.  it's later than you think.
uh huh.
when?
tonight.  before you go to bed. the cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.
hello, sidney.  wanna table?
just hopping tonight.  leo bartha been in?
yeah, having supper with the mrs. she's over there.
he's somewhere...
thanks, i see him...
loretta...sidney falco...
how do you do, mr. falco.  if you know anything about horses, sit a minute.  help yourself to a glass of this n.y. state champagne - that's what my husband buys me.
you ought to stop this nonsense, loretta, these two dollar bets.
it's compensation, leo, for the marginal life we lead.  sidney, did you hear the story about the cloak-and-suitor who -- ?
that's right!  tell him, so i can read it in hunsecker's column first!
oh, are you a spy for the other side?
will you mind your own business!
hitler!
where are we running?  what am i missing here?
waiter, the check.  this man is trying to hold a gun to my head!
that's the horse!  shotgun - shotgun in the fifth!
i see bartha gave you cold tongue for supper.  hey, wait a minute!
i'm late for a date with a dame.
how is dear old j.j. by the way?
call him up and ask - he might drop dead with shock.
if it were that easy, you wouldn't find an empty phone booth for the next two hours...
you don't know that lunatic yet? whims - egotistic whims!  like the gag - when you got him for a friend, you don't need an enemy!  that's what the fight with bartha was about. "leo", i says, "hunsecker froze me out.  so i'm eating humble pie this month - please print me an item."
and, instead, he printed his heel in your face?
i see you're full of human feelings...
rita, say hello to otis elwell.
hello.
friends call me otis - sometimes tricky otis.
otis was outraged when i told him van cleve was going to fire you. tell him not to pay any attention to anything you-know-who says about you-know-what.  right, otis?
right!
back?
one of those business meetings, honey - always coming up in the middle of the night.
i hate j.j. -- but not that much at this moment...
give me a chance --
don't you know who that man is?
yeah.  otis elwell.  the columnist.
yeah!
and he's a perfect stranger to me.
so take five minutes!  get acquainted!  he's an important man - he's lonely - don't be dumb!
what do you want all of a sudden - lady godiva...?  where's my other shoe?
what kind of an act is this?
don't you think i have any feelings? what am i?  a bowl of fruit?  a tangerine that peels in a minute?
i beg your pardon!  i turn myself inside out to help you and now i'm a heavy.  here's your shoe, there's your coat, that's the door!
sidney...i...i don't do this sort of thing...
what sort of thing?
this sort of thing!
listen, you need him for a favor, don't you!  and so do i!  i need his column--tonight.  didn't you ask me to do something about your job?  don't you have a kid in military school?
a girl needs a little romancing before she -
next time i'll call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling!
what would you think of me if -
nothing i didn't think of you before.
- that's what i mean!
blessings on thee, the both...well... gotta run now.  see you two kids later!
hurry back.
that's a question i usually like to ask you.  your secretary phoned.
what about?
something about a frank d'angelo trying to reach you...
could this be that boy?
dallas?  could be.  he doesn't look like a reefer smoker...
bribing me again?
and why should i bribe the woman who holds most of my heart?
who put this item in about the comic?  "if there's a more hilarious funny man around than herbie temple at the palace, you'll have to pardon us for not catching the name.  we were too busy screaming." does this temple have a press agent?
no.  it's one of j.j.'s occasional beau gestes.  evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug.
what's your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates?
let's wait till christmas - it's more legitimate then.
you watch him, al, i s...s...stutter!
temple, i caught your act the other night and -
did you now?  on which bounce?
- and i just had to drop by and tell you how great i thought you were.
cheers.  what time is it, al?
no, i don't mind.  i'm busy too.
good!  we're all off to utica, so excuse me, mr. frannis-on-the- portisan.
if there's a funnier man in the world than herbie temple at the palace...uh...pardon us for not catching the name, we were too busy laughing.  no, make that 'screaming'.  it's sweet of you, j.j., thanks. probably see you at twenty one tonight.  no, for supper, late. right. 'bye...
speak to this lad, al, ... to mr. falco.
see me in my office.
and it would cost a pretty penny, huh?
you tell him, i stutter!
it's a habit with me.  so now i'm briefed.  so what?
frank thinks i shouldn't have come here -
excuse me, steve.  i said namely you shouldn't go around wild, blaming people without justification.
i thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated.
why me...?
why not you?
that's your idea of logic?  i tell the judge i didn't murder the man - the judge says, "why not you?"
only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear - you or hunsecker or both.
dallas, ask your own manager - he's standing here like a pained wolfhound - hunsecker and elwell are enemies to the knife.  so how do you get him doing j.j. a favor?
it is a favor, isn't it?
according to you, yeah.  dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty!  i don't like you, comma, but neither do i go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the reds.  also, since we're talking repulsive, j.j. won't like this for two cents!  don't give me that look, dallas - j.j. believes in fair play.  and secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication - your her boyfriend!
you're talking very fast.
well, i'll tell you what - excuse me for breathing, will ya?  how do you like it?  he comes to my office and -
boys, this gets nobody nowhere - you're over excited, steve and -
don't apologize for me, frank!
...excited with good reason, i wanted to say.  because this endangers the future of the whole quintet...
...people catch on quick to such an item.  van cleve already called me - he's firing the quintet.
then what are you doing here?  go over there and fight!  if van cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth!
i want to speak to miss hunsecker, please.
we're on our way there now...
what's the matter?
nothing...
did you send my folks in philly the check...?
yes.
i put a lotta trust in you, chickie...
i know you do, sidney.
don't judge a situation where you don't know what's involved...
i swear, sidney, i can't help it - sometimes i wonder what i see in you...
that's no way to talk...
or what you see in me, for that matter...
stay down town tonight.  maybe we'll take in a show, etc.
if you want me to -
susie, you're very much in my thoughts today.
why?
what a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand...
did sidney tell you about it?
yes, he phoned.  i don't know this boy too well.  anything in these charges?
not being partial, are you?
no, i'm not.  i'm not!
why are you trembling, dear...?
history repeats itself.  everything that happened to alan leslie...began with a smear like this...
it's just as if i've seen a ghost today...
but that wasn't your fault, dear, what happened to leslie.  i've told you that a million times...
then whose fault was it, j.j.?  it was someone's fault, wasn't it?
i wouldn't have called the boy exactly balanced...
alan was not...unbalanced when i married him.  and he was not...'indifferent to women' no matter what they said! hunsecker  i'm not fighting with you, puss...
j.j., i want you to get them back their job, steve and the quintet.
you mean they've been fired already, on the basis of this crude smear?
i know steve.  no.
then maybe you can tell me if he's as solid as you say, why does he rap me every chance he gets?
sidney is a liar!
who said sidney?
i said sidney!...
you know, dear, we're drifting apart, you and i, and i don't like that.
i thought we were talking about sidney?
let me finish, dear.  you had your say, now let me have mine...
i haven't said anything yet, j.j., but if -
i started to say we're drifting apart.  a year ago, in your wildest dreams, would you have walked by that door without taking up this situation with me?  today i had to call you in!
i'm taking up the situation with you now...
susie, i want to help you--, there's nothing i won't do for you. you're all i've got in the whole, wide world.
well, what have i got?  alimony to a pair of tramps?  they're of no concern to me.  it's you who count, but don't get me wrong - i don't intend to let you break your neck again!
j.j., you said you want to help me - prove it!
how?
get steve back his job...please...
he means that much to you...?
yes.  with your "prestige" it only takes a minute - ten cents worth of american tel and tel.
you're picking up my lingo, hon.
i read your column every day...
susie, i like this new attitude of yours.  you're growing up and i like it!  i don't like it when you're limp and dependent, when you're odd and wayward.  this gives you a chance for real survival in a very lousy world.  because, don't forget, dear, you won't always have me with you, will you...?
no, i won't...
i'm not sure i can reach him in time.
sure you can if you want to, and i know you'll want to...  by the way, what's your beef against little sidney?
when i'm certain, i'll let you know...
a man couldn't ask for a squarer shake.  let me have billy van cleve...  don't ever tell anyone, susie, how i'm tied to your apron strings...  billy!  j.j.!  what's this about that boy?  what boy?  where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? you're brain is warming up, sweetheart - yeah, dallas!...  no, don't explain your point of view, but...
i got that boy coming over here.  what's so funny?
with a pocket fulla firecrackers - good.
i think you loused this up but good. if i can trust my eyes, and i think i can, susie knows all about your dirty work.
can't hurt...
can't hurt?  i had to get him back his job.
i like that, too.  look, j.j., we can wrap this up in one neat bundle, addressed to the dumps - to oblivion.  we're going great, but please play it my way. i cased this kid. know his ins and outs...he's fulla juice and vinegar, just begging for some big shot like you to give him a squeeze.  do little sidney a favor: squeeze! - you know, j.j. - the porcupine bit - needles.
but it's too late.  i got him back the job...
no, that's the point - he won't accept your favor!  the manager yes, but not the boy.
well he's got her in a tizzy, i'll tell you that!
sure, he steams her up - wants her to stand on her own two feet and all that jazz!
and who's feet is she on now?
presumably yours...  that's according to st. dallas.
what's this boy got that susie likes?
integrity - acute, like indigestion.
what does that mean - integrity?
a pocket fulla firecrackers - looking for a match!  it's a new wrinkle to tell the truth... i never thought i'd make a killing on some guy's "integrity".
full of beans, ain't you?  but you know that you'll stand or fall by what you're doing now...
calculated risk.  only we happen to know, j.j., that you like me.  i'm your star pupil -- i reflect back to you your own talent.
i still think he's responsible for the smear.
not that i'm convinced, but you'll never prove it in a million years.  steve, you'll do what you want, but it can't hurt; he offers you an olive branch - so today like olives!
i guess you're right, but -
well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of trouble...
you've been very kind about it, mr. hunsecker. hunsecker give susie credit for that.  i took her word that there was nothing to the smear.  matter of fact, i'll have my say about smears on the show today.  that's why i'd like your personal assurance, too.
mr. hunsecker, there's nothing to that smear.  you have my sincere word...
i'll by that, son.  now, you owe me a favor.  be good to my kid sister...
susie likes to keep her girlish secrets.  but in her heart of hearts i imagine, dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. now, what about you, son?  not just tom-catting around...i hope?
j.j., steve isn't...
take it easy, susie.  he wouldn't be much of a man if he didn't understand my concern.  would you, son?
no, i wouldn't...
serious as a deacon...i like it.  i like your style, son!  in a world of old rags and bones, i like it! for instance, take sidney.
frank, you don't listen!  j.j. just told you to shut your mouth!
don't you think it's about time you shut yours?  who are you to tell a man like frank d'angelo to shut up?!
does he have to be here in our hair?
why, has he bothered you before?
is it news to you?
son, lots of people tell me i'm a gifted man, but i still can't see around corners.
just exactly what are you so hot about?  i mean, i know it's a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but --
nuts!  i'm not here as an artist! i'm here as an average joe, who happens to love your sister susie!
well, just be careful you don't knock her down, huh?
frankly, son, you lost me on that last hill.  just give us the punch line...
no punch line.  maybe i was just admiring your know-how---yours and falco's.
why do you keep coupling me with falco?
he's here, isn't he?  do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
let's forget cats and dogs and other pseudo-literary remarks--- i'll just lay it on the line!  what about that big rumpus in my office today?  you were there, frank! where, according to st. dallas, j.j. was responsible for the elwell smear!
don't go wild, sidney.
wild?  take a look at them and see who's wild...
i don't take kindly to you and falco selling me ethics.  who's the injured party here, you?
right now you're in no position to ask questions!  and your snide remarks---
wait a minute, i haven't handed over punishing privileges to you yet!  put the whip down and i might respect what you're saying...
susie, did you know about this accusation...?
no...
before you leave, son, i'll answer your question---susan hunsecker is the injured party here!  or will i be hearing next that i don't even have my sister's welfare at heart...
mr. hunsecker, you've got more twists than a barrel of pretzels.
you hear that, susie...  continue please...
i'm afraid i can't cope with them.
give him credit---the boy's gall is gorgeous!
why don't we hear what susie has to say?
susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks.  go on, dear, say exactly what's on your mind, dear.
those "dears" sound like daggers. may i suggest that you stop daring her to speak?
may i lift my eyebrows?  what is this?  what are you trying to do?
i'm trying to get susie to stand up to you.  but your manner is so threatening that she's afraid to speak!
son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden pratt!
susie, i'm sorry if---
sometimes i think all men are fools!...
if looks could kill, i'm dead...
no, i don't care about you -- you're fantastic.  my whole interest, if it's not too late, is in susie...and how to undo what you've done to her...
and what have i done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately?  sidney, you were right -- the boy's a dilly.
why?  because i don't like the way you toy with human lives? - your contempt and malice?  because i won't be the accomplice of your sick ego - and the way it's crippled susie...?  you think of yourself - you and your column - you see yourself as a national glory...but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics - to me, mr. hunsecker, you are a national disgrace!
son, i don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns.  so suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day...
but my day with susie isn't over yet and--
ten'll get you fifty you're playing hookey from a padded cell!
you in a mood, susie, to run over to milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks?
no.  i'm going home.
what are you so chipper about?  if i put a cross on every one of your mistakes, you'd look like a graveyard!
but not for anything i did today...
sidney, i know human nature.  susie lied to me - she'll see that boy again.
are you listening?
how does it matter who's sister? the main thing, they're through and -
why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms?  not to mention that this time susie would know who shot the arrow...
she knows now.
why give her real proof?  you nearly ruined her with her first husband - and you were right, j.j., - but she almost followed him out the window.  what do you want - a chronic invalid?
j.j., it's one thing to wear your dog collar...but when it gets to be a noose...i'd rather have my freedom.
the man in jail is always for freedom.
sidney, i told you -
j.j., i swear to you on my mother's life, i won't do it.  if you gave me your column i wouldn't do a thing like that...
i could think of better places to meet her, instead of here.  he lives on the whole top floor.
i doubt that it matters any more.
hello, steve.  i'm glad you could come.
why did you call me?
would you buy me a cup of coffee? in there...
steve...what you tried to do today...you tried to take me up on a high mountain...i couldn't go all the way...i failed you...  will you forgive me?  have i lost you, steve?  have i...?
well, maybe i was wrong, too... but there's no doubt, susie, that we have to face some serious things...
no one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did.
but you didn't do much about it, susie.  you walked out, and there i was...solo...and not too good at that.
i just didn't think that i could antagonize him, steve -- for our sake, i mean.
susie, i was there for our sake, too.  but what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa!  by the way, i think your brother was completely responsible for the smears...
steve, i...
but i don't care about that now. he knew what he was doing today. he was laying down the conditions under which he might consent to our marriage - if i would bend to every whim of his, like sidney!  i couldn't do that, susie...
no!  i'm saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother!
but, please, steve, please - one step at a time!  i was born only yesterday!...
i told your brother i couldn't be his accomplice.  i can't be yours either, susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you.  i know what type - he's my old man all over again!
steve, i feel exhausted...what do you want me to do?
not what you're doing now.  at least don't ask me - don't ask him. you're fighting for your life! what do you want to do?
you are saying goodbye, aren't you...?
what's all the rush?  you said three o'clock.
he's leaving early.  after this "set".  he'll be out in a couple of minutes...
it's nice, sidney, that you give me this tip...
- he's got them on him.
...and he's got them on him.  i appreciate a thing like that - i appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city.
is that a fact?  he's a dilly, ain't he?  by the by, what did he have against this boy?
he goes out with girls.
well, i'll be darned.  and what does j.j. think he should do?
go out with different girls!
listen, get a good night's sleep - tomorrow's another day.  feeling sorry for yourself won't help.
i'm sorry about steve, not myself. i'm even sorry for my brother.  to be so lonely, without one real friend in the world - to have to hang on to a worthless rag of a girl like me because she's his only real family -
come on now, chickie, why don't you go to bed...?
and i'm sorry for you, too, sidney. you're going down with the ship.
what ship?
susie, whatever problems you have with j.j. - i didn't invent them! what're you blaming me for?  if you learned to let out your hatred you would be better off!
like you?
yeah!  like me!  i don't choke on my own gall - i fight back!  let them choke, not me!
i'm not a man, sidney, i'm -
i know that bit - you're a girl; you need a man to give you strength! so what do you pick such weak sisters for?  don't you know yet that you fight fire with fire, not with tear drops?
i could almost forgive you if what you did to steve came from jealousy and love...
i didn't do anything!
...but you did it for greed, sidney - and that's pathetic.
don't run away - i was always the man for you!  i'm talking to you out of two years of silence - listen to what i say!  inside of six months -
please, sidney, i can't stand this -
j.j., if you think -
don't explain, sidney... it doesn't matter now...
i was trying to build her up, not tear her down -
is that why you were romancing her, you mutt!  let's call it quits, my dear.  i'd like it fine if you found another home.  that means the front door is open!  pack your things, rent a moving van and git!  and as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you aren't ready for marriage!  you're incompetent - a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men!
no!  no!  don't touch me!
susan!...
talk to her, sidney...
talk to her yourself...
listen with care - this will cost me everything, so you know i'm telling you the truth!
you're incapable of the truth...
susie, there's nothing wrong with dallas!  your brother and i arranged it all. and if the leslie boy is still a squooshy item in your life, forget it! - your brother arranged that one, too!  i don't usually give away presents; but this is my gift to you: get out of here!  leave this man!
i thought he would.
yeah...  and another thing - he's gonna say you 'resisted arrest'...  you know j.j....!
