that is the third time he is called today.
he wants me to break a leg?
no, an arm, he said.  i told him you were sure the item would be in mr. hunsecker's column in tomorrow's...
it isn't.  I have just seen the early edition.
but...
but what?
that makes five days in a row that mr. hunsecker's cut you out of his column.
may i rent you out as an adding machine.
who else phoned?
the renting agent and the tailor.
pay the rent.  let the tailor wait.
it will not leave much of a balance in the bank...  mr. robard?  could you locate him?
i wish i could help in some way, sidney.
help me with two minutes of silence!
go home, sally.  it is late...
i hate to see you like this --
yes, but as a new subscriber you are under no obligation to take more than three books.  and if you mail the enclosed card within ten days --
sidney, i know you by now.  do not do a dance with me...
you mean you do not want the extra free gift of a colorful giant map of the world???
sidney, please, dear, if you feel nervous...
so what will you do if i feel nervous? you will open your meaty, sympathetic arms...?
sid...you got me so...i do not know what...
you ought to be used to me by now.
I am used to you...
no.  you think I am a hero.  I am no hero.  I am nice to people where it pays me to be.  i got to do it too much on the outside, so do not expect me to kow-tow in my own office.  I am in a bind right now with hunsecker so --  every dog has his day!  lock up and leave the key.
if that is for me, tear it up!
take a top coat.
and leave a tip in every hat-check room in town?
do not you ever get messages, eyelashes?  i called you twice.
I have been up to here.  listen, honey, tell me something.  you know susan hunsecker...?  has she been in?  i mean lately, in the last coupla days...?
i do not think so.
you are sure.  find out for me.
sidney, can i talk to you a minute?
is frank d'angelo around?
at the bar - sidney...
joe, give my nephew a drink.
your nephew does not want a drink.
that is a lollipop that, boy.  the kid is only great.
and with ten percent of his future, you are great, too, frank.
went over to philly yesterday an' seen the folks...it's nice you send them the fifty a month...
see my mother?
i only had a few hours.
thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit tomorrow.
robard's my client.  i did it for him and his club, not your boys.
frank, i think maybe you lied to me.
looka, sidney, you are my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar?
you told me that your boy was washed up with susie hunsecker, did not you?
yeah, and it is the truth, to the best of my knowledge.  and, frankly, I am glad.  for steve's sake, I am glad, not yours.  i manage these boys and i got their best interests at heart.  steve should not get mixed up with no bimbo at his age.
you told him that?
not in those exact words - you know what a temper he is got.
when do these hot-headed boys of yours go on the road?
coupla weeks.  for eight weeks.
that is a nice tour.  all booked?  when was susie around here last?
four five nights ago.  that is how i know the romance is off.  also steve's in a very bad mood.
listen, frank, you would better make sure you are telling me the truth.
i do not like this threatening attitude.  when it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl...
this is big, you know.  very big! let's go out later, drink some firewater.  with the boys.  fred can call millie and -
steve, I would rather you did not say anything for a day or two...until i tell my brother...
you have not told him yet...
I am telling him in the morning after breakfast.
steve, my brother is not as bad as he is painted.  he is not perfect, but -
but he is not going to like this, susie.  and he makes you nervous, not me.  no, i take that back - he makes me nervous, too.  but i would not give him a second thought if not for you.
his stooge, falco, is around - i saw him walk in.  he is been spying on me for weeks, susie.
darling, i do not care - really i don't.  sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business -
but he could be reporting back to your brother, could not he?
steve, dear, please forget all of this.  what can it matter after tomorrow?
i have a message for you; i love you.  may i dedicate the next number to you?...and the next, and the next. every sunday I will buy you a new bonnet -
if the stores are open -
and on monday, I will take it off and stroke your light brown hair and -
and on tuesday - hasenpfeffer. steve  how do you think i realized i love you?
i made you write a beautiful song...
no, you had me eating that chinese food!...
where is those glossy prints you promised?  tonight's the latest i can place them -
well, thanks, anyway - let's forget it.  it is cold out here, susie.
i get the feeling, falco, that you are always snooping around...
steve, stop it please...
I am feeling too good to fight with you, but that is not what i said - i said you snoop.  for instance, what were you doing around my hotel the other night?
begging your pardon, i have not been down the bowery in years!
come on boys, break it up...
the next time you want information, falco, do not scratch for it like a dog - ask for it like a man!
do not tell me you started a polka with leo bartha?
no.  that is what i mean - I am being fired for what i did not do.
avidly.  he was staring.
staring.  consequently, when he approached me on his way out i was not surprised, but i did not let on.
he was writing a special sunday piece on...?
...cigarette girls... and naturally -
you were thrilled to be interviewed.  were you "interviewed"?
in his apartment -
and where was his wife?
i do not know - it is a big apartment. but i was not interviewed.  in fact, i was totally unprepared for what happened.
we are old friends, chickie - quit it!  a big columnist comes in this room, without his ball-and-chain and you make like a delicatessen counter!  what did you think would happen in his house?
but, sidney darling, the man must be out of his mind - it was only eleven of the clock in the morning!
do you think you could do something, sidney?
that is what I am thinking, rita. maybe...
do you still keep your key under the mat?
can you be there by two-thirty?
did she accept?
you do not like it, do you.  i think she will accept, but I am not sure. she may be too dependent on her brother.
you are touchy, sidney - do not be so touchy...
i was not looking for a brawl.  i came to bring him a present.  wanna bite to eat?
feels like a monday night, do not it...?
not to me.  sometimes, the world feels like a cage.  then someone comes along and opens the door...and it is never monday night again...  i wish you and steve could like each other.
we stick in each others craw.
yes, but why?
well, for one thing, he thinks j.j. is some kind of monster.
where do you come off to make a remark like that?
who could love a man who keeps jumping through burning hoops, like a trained poodle?
do you think j.j. likes steve...?
frankly, yes, to my surprise.  he thinks he is very gifted - those boys'll go a big mile, he thinks.
it is given me a big lift to know that some people want me for myself, not just because I am my brother's sister.
chickie, I will have to laugh at that - an attractive girl like you...!
i hope that j.j. really likes steve, that it is not an act.
why should he put on an act?  your brother has told presidents where to go and what to do!
it is not my nature, susie, but I will talk to you like an uncle...
but i do not need an uncle, sidney.
jimmy!  this is a coincidence.  i am just going -
yeah.  a coincidence you should run into the very man you have been ducking all week!  this is my press agent, joan.
i tried to reach you twice -
what do you do for that hundred a week.  fall out of bed?
jimmy, I am on my way inside right now to talk to hunsecker.  i can promise you -
joan, call a cop!  we will arrest this kid for larceny!
listen, when your band was playing at roseland -
that was two months ago.  take your hand out of my pocket, thief!
no more you don't!  what is this - you are showing off for her?  they are supposed to hear you in korea?
he is intuitive - he knows he is getting fired!
if you are funny, james, I am a pretzel!  drop dead!
how are you tonight, mr. falco?
is "he" inside?
but of course...
alone or surrounded?
a senator, an agent and something - with - long - red - hair.
can i come out?  no.
i have to talk to you, alone, j.j., that is why.
you had something to do for me - you did not do it.
can i come in for a minute?
no.  you are dead, son - get yourself buried!
mac!  i do not want this man at my table...
i have a message from your sister.
err...the supreme court story, i was telling you - justice black.
yes, the justice, that is right. but i think you had it in the column.
and i believe that is precisely where i read it, too.  you see, j.j., where i get my reputation for being the best-informed man in washington.
now do not kid a kidder.
i know manny davis.
everyone knows manny davis...  ...except mrs. manny davis.
match me, sidney...
not just this minute, j.j....
why do not you answer the man, sidalee?  he is trying to take you off the hook.
you just had a good example of it. a press agent eats a columnists dirt and is expected to call it manna.
what, some cheap, gruesome gags?
you print them, do not you?
yes, with your clients' names attached.  that is the only reason those poor slobs pay you - to see their names in my column all over the world!  now, as i make it out, you are doing me a favor!
i did not say that, j.j.
the day that i can not get along without press agents' handouts, I will close up shop, lock, stock and barrel and move to alaska.
now, come, j.j., that is a little too harsh.  anyone seems fair game for you tonight.
this man is not for you, harvey, and you should not be seen with him in public.  because that is another part of a press agents life - he digs up scandal among prominent men and shovels it thin among the columnists who give him space.
there is some allusion here that escapes me...
we are friends, harvey - we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid congressman, do not we?
why does everything you say sound like a threat?
hello, harry.
bonna sera, commendatore.  come sta?
i just checked "downtown".  quiet everywhere tonight.
incidentally, what happened to that doll? - you gave me the item last night.  still alive?
yeah.  at bellevue.  still hanging on.  but they still do not know if she was pushed.
she mighta jumped.  love suicide?  check it for me, phil...it's a real heart throb.
say hello to sidney falco.  tickle him - he is been a bad boy tonight. he called you my fat friend.
i do not believe it.
i know...i know you are the strongest cop in town.
i call him the boy with the ice cream face!
say, that is good - it is nice - in fact, it is apt, harry!
yeah, i got eyes.  i put things together.
i remember once when you did not quite "put things together".  boy! was the mayor mad!
spahish...that must show he likes "spigs", too.
i like harry, but i can not deny he sweats a little.
you told me you would break up that romance - when?
you want something done, j.j., but i doubt if you yourself know what is involved.
I am a schoolboy - teach me, teach me.
why not break it up yourself?  you could do it in two minutes flat.
frankly, j.j., i do not think you got the cards to blitz me.
i don't?
correct me if I am wrong, but i do not think so...
I will listen one more minute.
awright, that brings us up to five weeks ago. "sidney, i got a nasty little problem here." did i say no? I am frank to admit - it do not jell as fast as we like... but all of a sudden i can not get you on the phone no more!  why?... and why, as of this date, am i frozen out of the column...
are you finished?
no, lemme finish.  i do not like this job!  that boy is dumb only on matinee days - otherwise he is got a head.  and susan, like you said, she is growing up.  two heads. what i mean, we got a slippery, dangerous problem here!
not "we", sidney, you!
correct me if I am wrong - we! because when I am out on this very slippery limb for you, you have to know what is involved.
ha!  my right hand has not seen my left hand for thirty years!
I will do it, j.j. - do not get me wrong - in for a penny, in for a pound.  I will see it through, but stop beating me around the head. let me make a living!
what you promised - do it!  do not finagle around.  it is later than you think.
uh huh.
when?
tonight.  before you go to bed. the cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.
hello, sidney.  wanna table?
just hopping tonight.  leo bartha been in?
yeah, having supper with the mrs. she is over there.
he is somewhere...
thanks, i see him...
loretta...sidney falco...
how do you do, mr. falco.  if you know anything about horses, sit a minute.  help yourself to a glass of this n.y. state champagne - that is what my husband buys me.
you ought to stop this nonsense, loretta, these two dollar bets.
it is compensation, leo, for the marginal life we lead.  sidney, did you hear the story about the cloak-and-suitor who -- ?
that is right!  tell him, so i can read it in hunsecker's column first!
oh, are you a spy for the other side?
will you mind your own business!
hitler!
where are we running?  what am i missing here?
waiter, the check.  this man is trying to hold a gun to my head!
that is the horse!  shotgun - shotgun in the fifth!
i see bartha gave you cold tongue for supper.  hey, wait a minute!
I am late for a date with a dame.
how is dear old j.j. by the way?
call him up and ask - he might drop dead with shock.
if it were that easy, you would not find an empty phone booth for the next two hours...
you do not know that lunatic yet? whims - egotistic whims!  like the gag - when you got him for a friend, you do not need an enemy!  that is what the fight with bartha was about. "leo", i says, "hunsecker froze me out.  so I am eating humble pie this month - please print me an item."
and, instead, he printed his heel in your face?
i see you are full of human feelings...
rita, say hello to otis elwell.
hello.
friends call me otis - sometimes tricky otis.
otis was outraged when i told him van cleve was going to fire you. tell him not to pay any attention to anything you-know-who says about you-know-what.  right, otis?
right!
back?
one of those business meetings, honey - always coming up in the middle of the night.
i hate j.j. -- but not that much at this moment...
give me a chance --
do not you know who that man is?
yeah.  otis elwell.  the columnist.
yeah!
and he is a perfect stranger to me.
so take five minutes!  get acquainted!  he is an important man - he is lonely - do not be dumb!
what do you want all of a sudden - lady godiva...?  where is my other shoe?
what kind of an act is this?
do not you think i have any feelings? what am i?  a bowl of fruit?  a tangerine that peels in a minute?
i beg your pardon!  i turn myself inside out to help you and now I am a heavy.  here's your shoe, there is your coat, that is the door!
sidney...i...i do not do this sort of thing...
what sort of thing?
this sort of thing!
listen, you need him for a favor, do not you!  and so do i!  i need his column--tonight.  did not you ask me to do something about your job?  do not you have a kid in military school?
a girl needs a little romancing before she -
next time I will call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling!
what would you think of me if -
nothing i did not think of you before.
- that is what i mean!
blessings on thee, the both...well... gotta run now.  see you two kids later!
hurry back.
that is a question i usually like to ask you.  your secretary phoned.
what about?
something about a frank d'angelo trying to reach you...
could this be that boy?
dallas?  could be.  he does not look like a reefer smoker...
bribing me again?
and why should i bribe the woman who holds most of my heart?
who put this item in about the comic?  "if there is a more hilarious funny man around than herbie temple at the palace, you will have to pardon us for not catching the name.  we were too busy screaming." does this temple have a press agent?
no.  it is one of j.j.'s occasional beau gestes.  evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug.
what is your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates?
let's wait till christmas - it is more legitimate then.
you watch him, al, i s...s...stutter!
temple, i caught your act the other night and -
did you now?  on which bounce?
- and i just had to drop by and tell you how great i thought you were.
cheers.  what time is it, al?
no, i do not mind.  I am busy too.
good!  we are all off to utica, so excuse me, mr. frannis-on-the- portisan.
if there is a funnier man in the world than herbie temple at the palace...uh...pardon us for not catching the name, we were too busy laughing.  no, make that 'screaming'.  it is sweet of you, j.j., thanks. probably see you at twenty one tonight.  no, for supper, late. right. 'bye...
speak to this lad, al, ... to mr. falco.
see me in my office.
and it would cost a pretty penny, huh?
you tell him, i stutter!
it is a habit with me.  so now I am briefed.  so what?
frank thinks i should not have come here -
excuse me, steve.  i said namely you should not go around wild, blaming people without justification.
i thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated.
why me...?
why not you?
that is your idea of logic?  i tell the judge i did not murder the man - the judge says, "why not you?"
only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear - you or hunsecker or both.
dallas, ask your own manager - he is standing here like a pained wolfhound - hunsecker and elwell are enemies to the knife.  so how do you get him doing j.j. a favor?
it is a favor, is not it?
according to you, yeah.  dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty!  i do not like you, comma, but neither do i go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the reds.  also, since we are talking repulsive, j.j. will not like this for two cents!  do not give me that look, dallas - j.j. believes in fair play.  and secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication - your her boyfriend!
you are talking very fast.
well, I will tell you what - excuse me for breathing, will ya?  how do you like it?  he comes to my office and -
boys, this gets nobody nowhere - you are over excited, steve and -
do not apologize for me, frank!
...excited with good reason, i wanted to say.  because this endangers the future of the whole quintet...
...people catch on quick to such an item.  van cleve already called me - he is firing the quintet.
then what are you doing here?  go over there and fight!  if van cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth!
i want to speak to miss hunsecker, please.
we are on our way there now...
what is the matter?
nothing...
did you send my folks in philly the check...?
yes.
i put a lotta trust in you, chickie...
i know you do, sidney.
do not judge a situation where you do not know what is involved...
i swear, sidney, i can not help it - sometimes i wonder what i see in you...
that is no way to talk...
or what you see in me, for that matter...
stay down town tonight.  maybe we will take in a show, etc.
if you want me to -
susie, you are very much in my thoughts today.
why?
what a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand...
did sidney tell you about it?
yes, he phoned.  i do not know this boy too well.  anything in these charges?
not being partial, are you?
no, I am not.  I am not!
why are you trembling, dear...?
history repeats itself.  everything that happened to alan leslie...began with a smear like this...
it is just as if I have seen a ghost today...
but that was not your fault, dear, what happened to leslie.  I have told you that a million times...
then whose fault was it, j.j.?  it was someone is fault, was not it?
i would not have called the boy exactly balanced...
alan was not...unbalanced when i married him.  and he was not...'indifferent to women' no matter what they said! hunsecker  I am not fighting with you, puss...
j.j., i want you to get them back their job, steve and the quintet.
you mean they have been fired already, on the basis of this crude smear?
i know steve.  no.
then maybe you can tell me if he is as solid as you say, why does he rap me every chance he gets?
sidney is a liar!
who said sidney?
i said sidney!...
you know, dear, we are drifting apart, you and i, and i do not like that.
i thought we were talking about sidney?
let me finish, dear.  you had your say, now let me have mine...
i have not said anything yet, j.j., but if -
i started to say we are drifting apart.  a year ago, in your wildest dreams, would you have walked by that door without taking up this situation with me?  today i had to call you in!
I am taking up the situation with you now...
susie, i want to help you--, there is nothing i will not do for you. you are all I have got in the whole, wide world.
well, what have i got?  alimony to a pair of tramps?  they are of no concern to me.  it is you who count, but do not get me wrong - i do not intend to let you break your neck again!
j.j., you said you want to help me - prove it!
how?
get steve back his job...please...
he means that much to you...?
yes.  with your "prestige" it only takes a minute - ten cents worth of american tel and tel.
you are picking up my lingo, hon.
i read your column every day...
susie, i like this new attitude of yours.  you are growing up and i like it!  i do not like it when you are limp and dependent, when you are odd and wayward.  this gives you a chance for real survival in a very lousy world.  because, do not forget, dear, you will not always have me with you, will you...?
no, i won't...
I am not sure i can reach him in time.
sure you can if you want to, and i know you will want to...  by the way, what is your beef against little sidney?
when I am certain, I will let you know...
a man could not ask for a squarer shake.  let me have billy van cleve...  do not ever tell anyone, susie, how I am tied to your apron strings...  billy!  j.j.!  what is this about that boy?  what boy?  where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? you are brain is warming up, sweetheart - yeah, dallas!...  no, do not explain your point of view, but...
i got that boy coming over here.  what is so funny?
with a pocket fulla firecrackers - good.
i think you loused this up but good. if i can trust my eyes, and i think i can, susie knows all about your dirty work.
can not hurt...
can not hurt?  i had to get him back his job.
i like that, too.  look, j.j., we can wrap this up in one neat bundle, addressed to the dumps - to oblivion.  we are going great, but please play it my way. i cased this kid. know his ins and outs...he's fulla juice and vinegar, just begging for some big shot like you to give him a squeeze.  do little sidney a favor: squeeze! - you know, j.j. - the porcupine bit - needles.
but it is too late.  i got him back the job...
no, that is the point - he will not accept your favor!  the manager yes, but not the boy.
well he is got her in a tizzy, I will tell you that!
sure, he steams her up - wants her to stand on her own two feet and all that jazz!
and who is feet is she on now?
presumably yours...  that is according to st. dallas.
what is this boy got that susie likes?
integrity - acute, like indigestion.
what does that mean - integrity?
a pocket fulla firecrackers - looking for a match!  it is a new wrinkle to tell the truth... i never thought I would make a killing on some guy's "integrity".
full of beans, am not you?  but you know that you will stand or fall by what you are doing now...
calculated risk.  only we happen to know, j.j., that you like me.  I am your star pupil -- i reflect back to you your own talent.
i still think he is responsible for the smear.
not that I am convinced, but you will never prove it in a million years.  steve, you will do what you want, but it can not hurt; he offers you an olive branch - so today like olives!
i guess you are right, but -
well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of trouble...
you have been very kind about it, mr. hunsecker. hunsecker give susie credit for that.  i took her word that there was nothing to the smear.  matter of fact, I will have my say about smears on the show today.  that is why I would like your personal assurance, too.
mr. hunsecker, there is nothing to that smear.  you have my sincere word...
I will by that, son.  now, you owe me a favor.  be good to my kid sister...
susie likes to keep her girlish secrets.  but in her heart of hearts i imagine, dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. now, what about you, son?  not just tom-catting around...i hope?
j.j., steve isn't...
take it easy, susie.  he would not be much of a man if he did not understand my concern.  would you, son?
no, i wouldn't...
serious as a deacon...i like it.  i like your style, son!  in a world of old rags and bones, i like it! for instance, take sidney.
frank, you do not listen!  j.j. just told you to shut your mouth!
do not you think it is about time you shut yours?  who are you to tell a man like frank d'angelo to shut up?!
does he have to be here in our hair?
why, has he bothered you before?
is it news to you?
son, lots of people tell me I am a gifted man, but i still can not see around corners.
just exactly what are you so hot about?  i mean, i know it is a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but --
nuts!  I am not here as an artist! I am here as an average joe, who happens to love your sister susie!
well, just be careful you do not knock her down, huh?
frankly, son, you lost me on that last hill.  just give us the punch line...
no punch line.  maybe i was just admiring your know-how---yours and falco's.
why do you keep coupling me with falco?
he is here, is not he?  do you think, sir, when he dies he will go to the dog and cat heaven?
let's forget cats and dogs and other pseudo-literary remarks--- I will just lay it on the line!  what about that big rumpus in my office today?  you were there, frank! where, according to st. dallas, j.j. was responsible for the elwell smear!
do not go wild, sidney.
wild?  take a look at them and see who is wild...
i do not take kindly to you and falco selling me ethics.  who is the injured party here, you?
right now you are in no position to ask questions!  and your snide remarks---
wait a minute, i have not handed over punishing privileges to you yet!  put the whip down and i might respect what you are saying...
susie, did you know about this accusation...?
no...
before you leave, son, I will answer your question---susan hunsecker is the injured party here!  or will i be hearing next that i do not even have my sister's welfare at heart...
mr. hunsecker, you have got more twists than a barrel of pretzels.
you hear that, susie...  continue please...
I am afraid i can not cope with them.
give him credit---the boy's gall is gorgeous!
why do not we hear what susie has to say?
susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks.  go on, dear, say exactly what is on your mind, dear.
those "dears" sound like daggers. may i suggest that you stop daring her to speak?
may i lift my eyebrows?  what is this?  what are you trying to do?
I am trying to get susie to stand up to you.  but your manner is so threatening that she is afraid to speak!
son, you raise your voice again and you will be outa here on your golden pratt!
susie, I am sorry if---
sometimes i think all men are fools!...
if looks could kill, I am dead...
no, i do not care about you -- you are fantastic.  my whole interest, if it is not too late, is in susie...and how to undo what you have done to her...
and what have i done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately?  sidney, you were right -- the boy's a dilly.
why?  because i do not like the way you toy with human lives? - your contempt and malice?  because i will not be the accomplice of your sick ego - and the way it is crippled susie...?  you think of yourself - you and your column - you see yourself as a national glory...but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics - to me, mr. hunsecker, you are a national disgrace!
son, i do not fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns.  so suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day...
but my day with susie is not over yet and--
ten'll get you fifty you are playing hookey from a padded cell!
you in a mood, susie, to run over to milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks?
no.  I am going home.
what are you so chipper about?  if i put a cross on every one of your mistakes, you would look like a graveyard!
but not for anything i did today...
sidney, i know human nature.  susie lied to me - she will see that boy again.
are you listening?
how does it matter who is sister? the main thing, they are through and -
why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms?  not to mention that this time susie would know who shot the arrow...
she knows now.
why give her real proof?  you nearly ruined her with her first husband - and you were right, j.j., - but she almost followed him out the window.  what do you want - a chronic invalid?
j.j., it is one thing to wear your dog collar...but when it gets to be a noose...i'd rather have my freedom.
the man in jail is always for freedom.
sidney, i told you -
j.j., i swear to you on my mother's life, i will not do it.  if you gave me your column i would not do a thing like that...
i could think of better places to meet her, instead of here.  he lives on the whole top floor.
i doubt that it matters any more.
hello, steve.  I am glad you could come.
why did you call me?
would you buy me a cup of coffee? in there...
steve...what you tried to do today...you tried to take me up on a high mountain...i could not go all the way...i failed you...  will you forgive me?  have i lost you, steve?  have i...?
well, maybe i was wrong, too... but there is no doubt, susie, that we have to face some serious things...
no one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did.
but you did not do much about it, susie.  you walked out, and there i was...solo...and not too good at that.
i just did not think that i could antagonize him, steve -- for our sake, i mean.
susie, i was there for our sake, too.  but what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa!  by the way, i think your brother was completely responsible for the smears...
steve, i...
but i do not care about that now. he knew what he was doing today. he was laying down the conditions under which he might consent to our marriage - if i would bend to every whim of his, like sidney!  i could not do that, susie...
no!  I am saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother!
but, please, steve, please - one step at a time!  i was born only yesterday!...
i told your brother i could not be his accomplice.  i can not be yours either, susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you.  i know what type - he is my old man all over again!
steve, i feel exhausted...what do you want me to do?
not what you are doing now.  at least do not ask me - do not ask him. you are fighting for your life! what do you want to do?
you are saying goodbye, are not you...?
what is all the rush?  you said three o'clock.
he is leaving early.  after this "set".  he will be out in a couple of minutes...
it is nice, sidney, that you give me this tip...
- he is got them on him.
...and he is got them on him.  i appreciate a thing like that - i appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city.
is that a fact?  he is a dilly, am not he?  by the by, what did he have against this boy?
he goes out with girls.
well, I will be darned.  and what does j.j. think he should do?
go out with different girls!
listen, get a good night's sleep - tomorrow's another day.  feeling sorry for yourself will not help.
I am sorry about steve, not myself. I am even sorry for my brother.  to be so lonely, without one real friend in the world - to have to hang on to a worthless rag of a girl like me because she is his only real family -
come on now, chickie, why do not you go to bed...?
and I am sorry for you, too, sidney. you are going down with the ship.
what ship?
susie, whatever problems you have with j.j. - i did not invent them! what are you blaming me for?  if you learned to let out your hatred you would be better off!
like you?
yeah!  like me!  i do not choke on my own gall - i fight back!  let them choke, not me!
I am not a man, sidney, I am -
i know that bit - you are a girl; you need a man to give you strength! so what do you pick such weak sisters for?  do not you know yet that you fight fire with fire, not with tear drops?
i could almost forgive you if what you did to steve came from jealousy and love...
i did not do anything!
...but you did it for greed, sidney - and that is pathetic.
do not run away - i was always the man for you!  I am talking to you out of two years of silence - listen to what i say!  inside of six months -
please, sidney, i can not stand this -
j.j., if you think -
do not explain, sidney... it does not matter now...
i was trying to build her up, not tear her down -
is that why you were romancing her, you mutt!  let's call it quits, my dear.  I would like it fine if you found another home.  that means the front door is open!  pack your things, rent a moving van and git!  and as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you are not ready for marriage!  you are incompetent - a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men!
no!  no!  do not touch me!
susan!...
talk to her, sidney...
talk to her yourself...
listen with care - this will cost me everything, so you know I am telling you the truth!
you are incapable of the truth...
susie, there is nothing wrong with dallas!  your brother and i arranged it all. and if the leslie boy is still a squooshy item in your life, forget it! - your brother arranged that one, too!  i do not usually give away presents; but this is my gift to you: get out of here!  leave this man!
i thought he would.
yeah...  and another thing - he is going to say you 'resisted arrest'...  you know j.j....!
