so, you never heard of him.
nope.
do you know who arturo toscanini is?
sure.
he is as big as toscanini, maybe even bigger. in this neck of the woods, he is probably bob hope and betty grable rolled into one.
jeez, and i never heard of him.
you were in insurance before the war.
right. claims assessor.
conscientious, determined, dogged.
they said i was dogged?
well, they say here that when you went on a case, you stayed on it.  now we can not take every nazi in this country to trial, although i would like to; it is an impossibility. so we are going for the big boys in industry, education, law, culture.
like this bandleader.
well, he is more than just a bandleader, steve. he is a great conductor, a gifted artist. but we believe that he sold himself to the devil. your number one priority from this moment on is to connect him to the nazi party. do not be impressed by him. i want the folks back home to understand why we fought this war. find wilhelm furtwngler guilty. he represents everything that was rotten in germany.
you live here, in berlin?
yes.
you do shorthand and typing?
yes.
okay, let's see. how long were you in the camp for?
three months.
says here because of your father. what is that mean?
my father was one of the officers in the plot against hitler. they arrested the plotters and their families.
your mother, too.
yes. she suffered longer. she was in ravensbruck.
and your father was executed.
steve.
there have been messages for you.  a lieutenant david wills called from the allied kommandatura cultural affairs office in wiesbaden. i do not know who he is.
think you can get me any of that?
oh yes, major, i have recordings of all his symphonies. i kept them safe during the bombing. my favourite is the seventh symphony.
mine's the eleventh.
but... he only wrote nine, major.
I am kidding, emmi. what about a record player? you have that, too?
no. ours was damaged.
what is in those files?
the names of the members of the berlin philharmonic orchestra since 1934 together with their questionnaires.  major, what am i to tell dr. furtwngler?
you tell him nothing, emmi. if he calls again, you say you know nothing. we are going to keep him waiting while i get acquainted with his case and with the witnesses. and, god help me, with beethoven.
lieutenant wills reporting to major arnold. sir.
for chrissakes i hate that shit, cut it out.
I am very sorry.
I am steve. what is your name?
david. david wills. I am your liaison officer with the allied kommandatura cultural affairs committee. sir.
sounds a lot of run.  so they sent the big guns to check up on me. we recruiting children now?
i guess so, sir.
you call me sir again and I will make you listen to beethoven.
where you from, david?
was born here, in leipzig. i escaped in '36. my parents, they sent me to my uncle in philadelphia. they were to follow. but they delayed and...
I am sorry.
come in, emmi, this is your office, too. emmi, this is lieutenant david wills.
i guess you admire musicians.
some.
don't. this is like a criminal investigation, david. musicians, morticians, doctors, lawyers, butchers, clerks. they are all the same.
rudolf otto werner. wind section since 1936. what instrument did you play?
first oboe.
i have your questionnaire here. it says you were never a member of the nazi party.
absolutely not.
no, i was never a nazi, i have no interest in politics, I am a musician -
hey, hey, slow up, fraulein straube has to take down what you say.
dr. furtwngler is a great musician. he actively opposed the nazis and later on he helped many jews to escape.
then how do you explain him being made a prussian privy councillor?
it was hermann goering. i was told he just made the maestro his privy councillor, no questions asked. although dr. furtwngler stood up to him. and to dr. goebbels.
he also conducted for hitler, did not he?
yes, that is true, but he refused to give the nazi salute. he kept his baton in his right hand. in hitler's presence. that was a brave act...
brave?  to celebrate hitler's birthday with some heroic piece by wagner but without the nazi salute? bravo.
it was beethoven's ninth.
do you really think it was brave? did not he bow to him and shake his hand?
goebbels, yes, josef goebbels said, 'there's not a single filthy jew left in germany on whose behalf dr. furtwngler has not intervened.' no, no one could have been less of a nazi than dr. furtwngler.
but this was the same guy who conducted for adolf on his birthday.
he was forced to do that. but he refused to give the nazi salute in front of hitler. he kept his baton in his hand, you can not salute with a baton in your hand.
oh! the evening before, i see...
yes, dr. furtwngler was absolutely clear about this: politics and art must be kept separate.
politics and art must be kept separate. I will remember that. but let me see if you can help me with something i just do not understand. I would really like to know why all you guys are so crazy about him. what is his secret?
you ever seen adolf hitler's eyes when he was making a speech? I have seen 'em on films.
yes.
was looking at furtwngler like that?
i do not know what you mean, major.
when you got to the crescendo.
you think a whole orchestra, what, a hundred and forty or so guys, could be orchestrated?
i guess it is possible.
so, what does the russki want?
colonel dymshitz asked specially to see you.
'dim-shits'?
what the hell are they doing?
they are trying to sort out some of the works of art the nazis stole from occupied territories. who really owns what? that is colonel dymshitz, on the far side.
hello, major, my name is dymshitz. I am glad to see you.
colonel. pleasure.
so, major, tell me, have you questioned dr. furtwngler?
not yet.
I have had two meetings with him. he is a great musician. maybe the greatest conductor in the world. his brahms, beethoven, schubert - unequalled.
that is because you had a proper upbringing.
that is right. i was raised very strictly. so do not speak before you are spoken to!
oh! and do not wave your hands about!
respect your elders and your betters!
and no elbows on the table!
eating is eating... and...
and talking is talking! well, i think we better get on.
right. so, this is going to be very formal, too, now. lieutenant david wills requests die pleasure of die company of fraulein emmi straube at dinner any night she cares.
david, need to ask you something. you heard this rumour the british found something called the hinkel archive?
yes.
so what is it?
the british occupy the building where this guy, hinkel, ran the nazi ministry of culture and it seems they've... they have discovered his secret archive.
what is that mean?
i do not know, but the british are excited about it, i know that. the rumour is hinkel kept a file on every artist working in the third reich.
jeez. and you think the british'll share it with their allies?
major richards said he would call to let us know.
that is big of him.
okay, better question the next witness. i bet you a bottle of french champagne he tells us the baton story inside ten minutes.
five minutes.
it is a bet. you are the witness, emmi.
helmuth alfred rode. second violinist since 1935. what is it mean, second violinist?
it means i was not good enough to be a first violinist.
good, and according to your questionnaire, helmuth, you never joined the nazi party.
me? never.  never.
is it true you are going to interview dr. furtwngler today?
I will ask the questions, helmuth.
excuse me. did you know that he refused to give the nazi salute when hitler was present in the audience?
you have a question for helmuth, david?
yes. what was the orchestra's reaction when they asked you to play for hitler's birthday?
oh, we did not play for his birthday, we played the evening before - it was the 19th of april not the 20th.
do you know hans hinkel?
do i know hans hinkel?
that is what i asked.
do i know hans hinkel?
you seem to understand the question, now how about answering it?
hans hinkel was in the ministry of culture; how could i know such a man?  i
i hear the british have his... his archive, files, records.
do you know what is in this archive?
how could i know what is in the archive?
major, major... he is here ...
shut the door, emmi. sit down, emmi. we are going to keep him waiting, too.
i want you to understand why you are here. you are automatically banned from public life under control council directive no 24. we are here to look into your case before you appear in front of the tribunal for artists of the denazification commission. you understand that?
i have already been cleared by a denazification tribunal in austria.
what they do in austria does not interest me one little bit. okay? i have your questionnaire here,  gustav heinrich ernst martin wilhelm furtwngler, born berlin, january 1886. orchestral conductor. and you say here you were never a member of the nazi party.
that is correct.
could you tell us about being made a prussian privy councillor. how did that happen to a non-party member?
i received a telegram from hermann goering informing me that he had made me a privy councillor. i was not given the opportunity either to accept or refuse. after the dreadful events of november 1938, the violent attacks on the jews, i stopped using the title.
what about vice-president of the chamber of music, you used that title did not you? but then i suppose you had no choice there either, because i suppose dr. goebbels just sent you a telegram saying, dear mr. vice-president.
i do not think dr. goebbels sent me a telegram. i was simply told. in a letter, i believe. i do not remember exactly.
goebbels and goering were sure heaping honours on you. one makes you a privy councillor, the other makes you vice-president of the chamber of music, and you were not even a member of the party, how do you explain that?
well, there was a constant battle between goering and goebbels as to which of them would control german culture. i was simply a pawn. anyway, i resigned from the musikkammer at the same time i resigned as musical director of the berlin philharmonic orchestra. in 1934.
then why did you conduct at one of their nuremberg rallies?
i did not conduct at at the rally, i conducted on the evening before the rally.
that sounds like the small print in one of our insurance policies, wilhelm. and what about april 19, 1942?  the eve of hitler's fifty- third birthday, the big celebration; you conducted for hitler, did not you? was that in keeping with your view that art and politics have nothing to do with each other?
that... that was a different matter, i... i was tricked.
how come?
could i have a glass of water, please? please, fraulein?
i made no deal!
i do not buy that.
it is the truth.
i keep hearing you helped a lot of jews to escape. how did you do that?
i do not remember in detail, there were so many.
did you call someone you knew?
i may have, as... as i said, i simply do not remember.
let me me help you, then. you picked up the phone and made a call -  'hello, adolf? wilhelm speaking. listen, old pal, there is a jew-boy musician i want you to help. he needs a permit to get to paris.'
or maybe you called goebbels or goering? you were so close you were in the same shithouse as them.
may i ask a question?
sure.
when will my case be heard by the tribunal?
your guess is as good as mine.
i need to work. i need to make my living. i live off the generosity of friends...
tough, tough!
then why is it, please, that another conductor who was actually a member of the party, who used to play the horst wessel before his concerts, has already been cleared and is working again while i have to wait and wait and wait?
i do not know, he was not my case. why did you escape to switzerland just before the war ended?
it was because i learned that the gestapo was about to arrest me.
why were they going to arrest you?
i believe it was because of another letter I would written to goebbels lamenting the decline of musical standards due to racial policies.
you did not complain about the racial policies, just about the musical standards, is that right?
so, how did you learn that the gestapo was out to get you?
during an enforced hour-long interval because of a power failure at a concert here in berlin, albert speer, the minister of armaments, said to me, 'you look very tired dr. furtwngler, you should go abroad for a while.' i knew exactly what he meant.
you sure knew a lot of people in high places.
it would be truer to say, i think, that a lot of people in high places knew me.
you were real close to all of them, to adolf, to hermann, to joseph, to baldur, and now albert,  so, let's hear the truth, let's come clean. what was your party number?
if you are going to bully me like this, major, you had better do your homework. you obviously have no idea how impertinent and stupid your questions are.
i have a list of names here, people in your profession, who got out in '33. bruno walter, otto klemperer, arnold schoenberg, max reinhardt...
they were jews, they had to leave. they were right to leave.  i could not leave my country in her deepest misery. after all, i am a german.  i... i stayed in my homeland. is that my sin in your eyes?
see, david? he can not answer the question. I will ask it again, wilhelm, and do not give me any more airy-fairy, intellectual bullshit!
steve arnold...
I have had enough of this, I am leaving.
I have got to hand it to the british, david. you know what those guys are?  decent.  tell me, herr dr. furtwngler, do you know hans hinkel?
yes, a despicable human being. he was in the ministry of culture. his job was to get rid of jews in the arts.
yup, that is him, that is the guy. you know what else the little creep did? he kept files, close on 250,000 files. and you know what is in those files?
certainly not, but i knew he had informers everywhere. even in my orchestra there was someone
who?
i was not told. i just knew it.
how?
i was warned.
who warned you?
goering. because hinkel was working for goebbels.
what did goering say?
he told me to be careful as one of goebbels' men was watching me. he read a report on me - everything i said was quoted word by word.
oh boy, you are going to love this. take your time with this now. those files contain the details of every working artist in this country. those files are going to tell us who joined the party, who informed and who was helpful.
what does he mean, too correct?
i do not know.
do not see me to my door, there is no need.
but i promised your mother.
major.
helmuth.
guess what i am holding in my hand. you like guessing games?
love 'em, helmuth. i give up. what are you holding in your hand?
it is dr. furtwngler's baton, which i stole.
the one he kept in his right hand. yes, you remember.
yes, you remember.
how could i forget?
show me.
show you?
yeah, show me, i want to see you do it. pretend I am adolf. you are the maestro, and you have the baton in your right hand, but you give me the salute just the same.
not here, major, there are people, if anybody should see... please, please, major...
do it, helmuth.
and i see what you mean. you nearly poked my eyes out.
exactly.  replaces the baton, gives steve the case.
do not worry, helmuth, it will be our secret.
great catch, kid. the boy runs off.
so. you wanted to see me.
you usually do not work on sunday, major?
all in the cause of humanity, helmuth. or should i call you one- zero-four-nine-three-three-one?
what?
one-zero-four-nine-three-three- one. or d'you mind if i just call you 'one'?
was a member of...?  speak up?
i was a member of the communist party. i was a communist. that is what hinkel had over me. he knew everything. he held that over me. that is how he made me co-operate.
oh, i see, he made you co-operate. and now are you a communist again?
you do not know what it is like to wake up every single morning of your life terrified, you do not know that -
i can give you freedom of movement, freedom to work, freedom, helmuth. but i need something in return.
major, we are discussing a man of genius, i do not want...
fuck that, helmuth. you want to discuss symbols here?  this guy was a front man. he was the piper, but he played their tune, you get my philosophical meaning?  I am not interested in small fish, I am after moby dick. come on, helmuth. hard facts.
the only thing i know is he is an anti-semite.
of course. you, too. like everyone else in this goddamn country.
I have remembered something else...
yeah?
furtwngler sent hitler a telegram for his birthday.
he did?
one of your people told me.
one of my people?
yes. a corporal. us army. a jew. he said he would seen the telegram in the chancellery.
son-of-a-gun. we will find the corporal and we will find the telegram.
but i need documentary proof. you know of anything like that?
no. but that is why we hated him. we admired him as a conductor but we all hated him too because he did not have to join the party and yet he had a better life than any of us. he did not have to go and deliver a report after every trip abroad. he got everything from them, everything. he was filthier than any of us party members.
there is a rumour... i do not know if it is true or not... but ask him about von der null.
never heard of him, who is he?
edwin von der null. music critic. he gave furtwngler terrible reviews while he raved about herbert von karajan.
who is he?
also a conductor. very brilliant. young. von der null called him 'the miracle von karajan'. furtwngler was outraged and they say he had von der null conscripted into the army. the same thing happened to another critic. true or not, it is not such a bad idea. critics give you bad reviews, you have them sent to the russian front.  but if you really want to get furtwngler, ask him about herbert von karajan.
the miracle kid.
yes, yes you may notice that he cannot even bring himself to utter his name, he... he refers to him as k.
and ask him about his private life.
his private life?
where do you stand on all this?
on all what?
on furtwngler.
i do not know.
you represent the united states now. we have a moral duty to be just and we have to be seen to be just.
major arnold believes he has a moral duty, too.
our duty is to help furtwngler with his defence,  that is why i want you to look at this...  these are part of the transcripts of the trial at nuremberg. we can not get them translated fast enough. but i guess you understand german, right?
i was in vienna. i had with me an austrian chauffeur, max his name was, he spent time in the camps. we were looking at these viennese cleaning up the bomb damage, scavenging for rotting food, butt ends, anything. i said, 'to think a million of these people came out to welcome adolf on the day he entered the city, a million of 'em, and now look at 'em.'  and max said, 'oh, not these people, major. these people were all at home hiding jews in their attics.' you get the point, colonel? the point is they are all full of shit.
furtwngler's in a different category.
we are dealing with degenerates here.
a great artist will have great privileges in a russian zone.
that is why he did not get the hell out of here when he had the chance! i put that to him, he could not answer. why did not he go and direct in america, like that italian, toscanini.
colonel. he had no sisters, no brothers, only a lot of love affairs.
anyway, major, why should he leave his country, his mother tongue, his family, his history, his past, his future, just because now, suddenly, there is a dictatorship? why?
but what... before that turns rotten...  what if they surround the space with barbed wire, colonel?
do not talk about things you know nothing about. he was in a dictatorship!
yeah, yeah, art and politics, yeah, yeah, i heard all about that.
in a dictatorship, art belongs to the party. if you want to be a conductor, you have to have an orchestra. and you can only get an orchestra if you have contact with the power. all over the world you need the right contacts and you have to make the right compromises.
this is what I am saying. he must have had party contacts.
there are good party members who help, and there are dirty non-party members who inform on you. of course, they gave him privileges.
and suddenly, steve, suddenly you notice that they like you. they honour you, suddenly you are the director of the best museum in the world, for example.
what museum?
I am sorry. museum? not... i said orchestra. sorry. believe me.  help me, steve. you say you answer for someone from high up. i, too, have orders from high up. very high up. we want furtwngler. I will give you in return the whole orchestra, four, five conductors. i need him, steve.
no can do.
let furtwngler go. please.
i have a duty.
duty? i am sorry, duty? duty fucking duty. trouble is, you americans want everybody to live like you. we liberated berlin, major steve, not you. our duty also is to bring back the best of german culture.
I am going to get that fucking bandleader, colonel. no deal. no fucking deal.
then you are going to kill me.
yesterday i read that furtwngler was asked to lead the new york philharmonic back in '36, toscanini suggested it. had he accepted, he would have become the most celebrated conductor in america.
when he made his decision, he could not have known everything. especially not the way people like you do, who have returned from exile and feel that you have a right to pass judgement. because you are blameless, you think you know best who is a sinner and who deserves forgiveness. but you have no idea how people lived here.
when he met hitler at his birthday and shook hands with him, was he pleased?
i do not know. but you and i already know that he has saved lives.
bruckner's seventh, major.
do you know where the adagio begins?
of course.
put it on ready to play, and I will tell you when to play it.
it is now nine of the clock precisely. i do not intend to be kept waiting again.
do not talk to me like i was a second violinist. go back into the waiting room. miss straube will come and get you when i am ready to see you.
if it is too hot, open your tie.
i wish to say something.
go ahead, be my guest.
when i last saw you, i was unprepared. i did not know what to expect. in these past weeks, i have been thinking more carefully and making some notes.  you have to understand who i am and what i am. i am a musician and i believe in music. i am an artist and i believe in art. art in general, and music, in particular, has for me mystical powers which nurture man's spiritual needs. i must confess, however, to being extremely naive.  i insisted for many years on the absolute separation of art and politics. my entire life was devoted to music because, and this is very important, because i thought that i could, through music, do something practical.
and what was that?
maintain liberty, humanity and justice.
gee, that is a thing of beauty, honest to god, a real thing of beauty. I am going to try to remember that. liberty, humanity and justice. beautiful. but you used the word 'naive'. are you now saying you think you were wrong? that art and politics can not be separated?
i believe art and politics should be separate, but that they were not kept separate i learned to my cost.
and when did you first learn that - when you sent the telegram? was that the surrender signal, the waving of the white flag?
what telegram?
'happy birthday, dear adolf, love wilhelm.' or words to that effect. that sounds to me like you were dropping on your knees and saying, 'okay, adolf, you win. you are the number one man. have a swell party.'
i have no idea what you are talking about.
the birthday greetings you sent to your old pal, adolf hider.
i never sent him any birthday greetings or any other kind of greetings.
think carefully, wilhelm... maybe not in your own name, but as privy councillor or vice-president.
i do not have to think carefully. this is utterly ridiculous.
yes, david?
why not show dr. furtwngler the evidence. it may refresh his memory?
you will not find it because no such telegram exists.
well, i tried, you got to admit i tried. i thought i might just trap you there, wilhelm, but david here was too quick for me. smart move, david, smart move. no, i do not have the telegram, but i know it exists. and i want you to know, wilhelm, we are going to keep looking for it because i believe you sent it.
then you are wrong.
art and politics, yeah, art and politics. let's look at that. you and the berlin philharmonic toured the third reich, played in countries the nazis had conquered. are you saying that conducting in occupied territories from 1939 on was not a commercial for adolf and all he stood for?
we never, never officially represented the regime when we played abroad. we always performed as a private ensemble. as i think i already told you, i was a freelance conductor.
you know something? you should have written our insurance policies for us because you got more exclusion clauses than double indemnity. what do you imagine people thought? the berlin philharmonic's taken over by doctor goebbels and his propaganda ministry but wilhelm is a freelance, so art and politics are now entirely separate? is that what you believed ordinary people thought?
have no idea what ordinary people thought.
no!
no, because i had only one intention. my only intention whatever i did was to show that music means more than politics.
tell me about von der null.
von der null?
yes, von der null.
von der null?
how long's this going to go on, wilhelm? i say von der null, you say von der null, i say von der null, you say von der null, we could go on all day. you know who von der null is, do not you? edwin von der nuell, music critic.
yes, i know who he is.
is not it true that because he gave you bad reviews and praised this young guy, von karajan, called him a goddamn miracle, said he was a better conductor than you, then you had von der null conscripted into the army and no one's heard from him since?
that is an outrageous lie!
you sure you did not call one of your close buddies and say, god in heaven, did you see what that guy von der null wrote about me? the greatest conductor on earth. i want him out the way. he had the nerve to accuse me i am not playing enough modern music. send him to stalingrad. is not that what you did? you do not like criticism, do you, wilhelm?  you surely did not like them saying there was another conductor who was better than you... are you saying the name von der null was never mentioned in your talks with goebbels?
well. once he said he would read what this man wrote about me.
and what did he say?
he said, 'don't mind him. his job is to criticise, your job is to conduct.'
and what happened to von der nul?
i have no idea.
you have really no idea? I will tell you what happened. he died in stalingrad.
I am sorry.
now, that young conductor what is his name?  that miracle kid, you know who i mean. von karajan! but you called him something else. c'mon. what did you call von karajan?
please stop playing these games with me. why you should bring up the name of another conductor is beyond my understanding.
I will tell you why. you remember we talked about you playing for hitler's birthday?  and you told me that goebbels got to your doctors first, that you were tricked?
yes, that is what happened.
come on, admit it. k worried you, did not he? he always worried you. in 1942, he is thirty-four years old, you are already fifty-six. and goebbels and goering keep saying to you, 'if you do not do it, little k will.' never mind art and politics and symbols and airy-fairy bullshit about liberty, humanity and justice because i do not care how great you are. it is the oldest story in the book,  the ageing romeo jealous of the young buck. the real reason you did not leave the country when you knew you should have was that you were frightened that, once you were out of the way, you would be supplanted by the miracle kid, the party's boy twice over, flashy, talented little k.
this is absolute nonsense!
well, I am just beginning to develop my theme. is not that what you call it in classical music, developing your theme? okay, so they played on your insecurity. that is human, understandable. but, there is one guy who does not like little k as much as he likes you - yeah, the number one man your old pal, adolf. he thinks you are the greatest, and when he says, i want wilhelm for my birthday, boy, they better go out get wilhelm. so, josef calls and threatens you with little k. and you said to hell with the ninth in vienna, I will give it to adolf as a birthday present in berlin. that is the trick they played, they got you by the balls and they squeezed. hard. why did you stay? why did you play for them? why were you the flag-carrier for their regime?  jealousy?
of course there was a conspiracy against me, a campaign - even abroad.
you see, wilhelm, I am talking about ordinary, everyday reasons. which is why i want to discuss your private life.  how many illegitimate children do you have?
major, i do not see how this line of questioning could...
david, what are you counsel for the defence now?  did you hear the question?
i have illegitimate children.
what?
i said i have illegitimate children. i do not know how many.
you like the women, do not you, wilhelm?
is not it true that before every concert you got a woman in your dressing room and gave her the old conductor's baton, is not that true?
major, this is deeply offensive and repugnant!
you bet.
and totally irrelevant.
not so, counsellor. that secretary of yours, she was not just your secretary, she procured women for you, did not she? as many and as often as you wanted.
stop this, please, stop this now!
no, I am not going to stop it. hitler himself offered you a beautiful house and a personal bomb shelter.
i absolutely refused the house and the bomb shelter.
but you see what I am getting at? you get a gorgeous house, you are highly paid. what are you going to do, stay or leave? one voice comes back at me: stay!
major, that is not a good argument. if dr. furtwngler did indeed enjoy all these... these privileges, he enjoyed them because of who he is and what he is. that is true of any leading artist in any country in the world.
but it still does not make them saints. they still have to get up and piss in the middle of the night, do not they? they can still be vindictive and envious and mean just like you and me. well, just like me. can not they?
okay, wilhelm, go home now. go home and think about these past twelve years.
i do not understand what you mean.
no, that is your problem, wilhelm. you understand nothing. we will call you. go!
what?
your manner.
my manner? why do not you go downstairs, get a cup of coffee and calm down? what is the matter, emmi? what is going on with you? what is wrong?
I am sorry but i have to leave. I will find other work. you will have to get someone else, that is all.
what is this, emmi?
i can not do this. it is not right.
what is not right?
i have been questioned by the gestapo just like that. just like you questioned him.
emmi, stop! i want to show you something. let me show you something and then if you want to leave, you can leave, please please. his friends, they did this. and he gave them birthday concerts.
but he had no idea, a lot of people had no idea. i only realised what was really going on when i got arrested.
if he had no idea, why did the jews need saving? this is the question, emmi, to all germans: why did the jews need saving in this country? why, if people had no idea?
i would like to go now, please.
can i ask you a favour, major?
yeah.
when you question him again, could you treat him with more respect?
with more what? more what?
major, he may just be the greatest conductor of this century and that merits respect.
david, i do not understand a thing about you. you are a jew. are you a jew?
yes, I am a jew. but i like to think first I am a human being.
a human being, oh, good, I am relieved, i thought you were going to say you were a music lover. this man, this great artist has made anti-semitic remarks like you would not believe. i got letters.
major, show me someone who has not made an anti-semitic remark and I will show you the gates of paradise.
what is it with you, david? where are your feelings? where is your hatred, your disgust? where is your fucking outrage, david?
everybody says what a great benefactor you were to the jews. but--  i have things here you said and wrote. listen to this: 'the jew composer schonberg is admired by the jewish international.' and what about this: 'jewish musicians lack a genuine affinity with our music.' 'jewish musicians are good businessmen with few scruples, lacking roots.' you deny you said these things?
those attitudes do not exist in me.
i believe that. but just answer the question, do not give me explanations.
speaking to party members i used their language, of course i did, everyone did.
'please remember that dr. furtwngler risked his life to help anyone who asked him. i personally testify to having seen literally hundreds of people lined up outside his dressing room after concerts to ask for his help. he never turned anyone away. after he heard me play... i am a violinist... he gave me money because i was unable to feed myself or my family and then he helped me to escape to sweden. he helped countless people in similar ways.'
and this, only one of these letters, major. i have lots of them.
do you know what that is?
of course i know what that is.
okay, so what is it?
bruckner's seventh. the adagio.
who is conducting?
how can i know such a thing?
I will tell you, then. the last time this music was played on these air waves was after they announced that your pal hitler had shot himself. listen to it.  they listen. did they pick little k's recording? did they pick some other conductor? no, they picked you, and why? because you represented them so beautifully. when the devil died, they wanted his bandleader to conduct the funeral march. you were everything to them.
have you ever smelled burning flesh? i smelt it four miles away. four miles away, i smelt it. have you ever seen the gas chambers, the crematoria? have you seen the mounds of rotting corpses? you talk to me about culture, art and music? you putting that in the scales, wilhelm? you setting culture, art and music against the millions put to death by your pals? they had orchestras in the camps. they played beethoven, wagner. the hangmen were playing chamber music at home with their families. i do not understand the germans' relationship with music. what do you need music for? your pals you could call to save a few jews when millions of them were being annihilated? yes, i blame you for not getting hanged, i blame you for your cowardice. you strutted and swaggered, you fucking piece of shit, king-pin in a shithouse. you talk to me about walking a tightrope between exile and the gallows, and i say to you, lies!
i love my country, i believe in music, what was i to do?
look around you. see the country you served. look at people who had real courage, who took risks, who risked their lives. like emmi's father.
