that’s right.
will you please come with me?
that might depend on where you’re going.
i am lawrence, sir. mr and mrs de moraes’ majordomo. they are expecting you.
de moraes? i was asked here by a mrs spitz.
that would be mrs de moraes mother, sir. mr and mrs spitz are here with their daughter.
good afternoon, mrs...?
spitz. we spoke on the telephone.  my husband...  my daughter, deborah, whose house this is.  my son-in-law, carlos...  the gentleman is a business partner of his.
may i...?
may i ask if you are jewish, mr lombard?
lombard, this is not a jewish name, is it?
i hope it’s not too significant.
what if it is?
well, i would have to point out that we could have dealt with that question when you called this morning, mrs spitz. i wouldn’t like to think i’d kept you waiting for nothing.
whatever, you come recommended. we...
recommended?
must i speak to you in french?
didn’t you say i came recommended?  that’s what i thought. may i know by whom?
you may not. and besides, it is irrelevant.
okay. recommended...
good. now, as i trust you may have guessed, we are looking for someone to work for us. someone whose discretion can be relied upon. someone who while in our employ would give us full commitment. do you think you could be that person, mr lombard?
look mrs spitz... i don’t know to whom i’m indebted for the recommendation but... i’m not in the business of making oaths of allegiance or giving myself character references. what i do is listen to what the people who care to call me have to say and judge whether or not i can be of help. i hope you can appreciate that, mrs spitz.
what i can appreciate is insolence, mr lombard!
i take it your son is called leon?
leonard. what my daughter is on about, mr lombard, is that leonard is somewhat of a bohemian. you might as well know that...
what do you think has happened to your son, mrs spitz?
you wouldn’t be here if i knew, mr lombard. what i do know is that he has not been at work for three weeks. that enquiries to the police and london hospitals have borne no results. and that a check with his bank revealed he has not used his account for four weeks now.
how did you do that, mrs spitz?
do what, mr lombard?
check with your son’s bank. banks don’t usually give out information about their customers.
i said earlier that my husband and i are supporting leonard in his photography, mr lombard. by this i mean that since his return from america i have been depositing for him a monthly allowance in an account we jointly hold. so as you see, i did not have to break the law to find out if he used the account.
i didn’t mean to imply you did, mrs spitz.
then you should not have sought an explanation.
i presume you checked your son’s apartment...
yesterday. it all looked normal.
did you look for his passport, driving licence?
leonard does not hold a driving licence. as for his passport, i do not know where he keeps it.
so he could have decided to go on a trip...
he could indeed, mr lombard. but had he done so i think he would have let us know about it.
then why aren’t you asking the police to look for your son, mrs spitz?
now you know why you’re here, mr lombard.  it might be difficult for someone like you to discern, but we are people of a certain standing.
appearances can be deceptive, mrs de moraes.
that depends what you’re looking at.
i take it your son is not married, mrs spitz?
no. and before you ask, no, he’s not gay! he has had girlfriends, but nothing serious...
any friends?
the proprietor of his workplace is the only friend of his we know about.  his address is in this envelope with leonard’s address, keys and other things you might need.
i’m sure... as far as you know, when and where was your son last seen?
when... i’m told he came here...
three weeks ago. to borrow money. i wasn’t here but he got to my husband, sold him some fancy story about an exhibition of his work and needing money to get new prints made. carlos handed over £1,000 to get rid of him.
and that is the last time any...
well, leon does not need money for prints, mr lombard. does his own printing. wouldn’t want anyone to interfere with his ‘art’!  which, as he subsequently vanished, raises the question: what was the money for? perish the thought.
the £1,000 is on account.
my rates...
we are aware of your rates, mr lombard. we will pay you double your rates plus expenses. in return, need i say it again, we expect discretion and undivided attention.
why do you think your son chose not to come to you for funds for his photography, mrs spitz?
ha... no, mr lombard. his monthly allowance is all he is to expect from us. he knows it and we feel the amount is more than adequate.
my husband and i will be leaving tomorrow for a short stay in israel. deborah will be here if you need anything before our return.
fine. one more thing, mrs and mr spitz; may i ask what is or was your occupation?
what about you, mrs de moraes?
i have too much money to work, mr lombard.
is that why your brother braved coming here to ask you for a loan?
perhaps it wasn’t so brave of him. had i been here i just might have given him his money, mr lombard. one can reap rewards from the strangest of conduct, as someone in your line of work ought to know.
was it cash, mr de moraes?  the £1,000. you gave it to him in cash?
hello again, neighbour. i didn’t intrude, did i?
how are you, jane?
fine. how was the match? did you loose?
no.
must be your lucky day then. i’ve got your accounts - you don’t owe much tax for last year.
good.
yes. but my boss reckons you’d still be better off as a limited company. for expenses and all that, you know? it’d cost you about £100 but he said it’d be worth it.  of course, you’d need a partner to register. but that’s a formality. i mean, i could be your partner. i mean, just as a name, right?
have you heard of a french film called “la collectionoose”?
la what?
“la collectionoose”. it’s about a young girl in the south of france who seduces a different man every night and then meets one who resists her. it’s on tv tonight and as i’m in i thought we could perhaps look at your accounts and... the review says it’s about the conflict between intellect and instinct. and witty. the director’s supposed to be famous. rommel or something. french. you must know him?
should i?
i don’t know. how many famous french film directors can there be?
that are called rommel or something, i guess not that many.
so you haven’t seen the film, then?
it’s friday night, jane. what happened to your latest boyfriend?
oh... we split up.
well, i hope you’re not too heartbroken and...
oh no. i’m all right. he was a jerk, really. another boy, you know? all i meet is boys. when i think of all the fuss about older men fancying young girls. i mean, is it true?
i’ve got work tonight, jane.
oh yeah! better be good and hurry away then! who knows? we might be being watched! maybe one of your stupid french companies has got a detective prying into your life - after all, that’s what they do to their employees, isn’t it? huh! hope you enjoy ruining people’s lives. thanks for the lift!
evening. table for one?
no. thank you. could you tell me if leon spitz is here, please?
leon? no. i’m afraid he left.
left? when? i just come from his place and there was no one there. a neighbour of his...
no. i meant he left as in no longer works here.
oh. this is... we’d arranged to meet tonight and i’m due to return to paris tomorrow...
i’m sorry...
yes. you wouldn’t know where i could reach him? we had to discuss an exhibition of his photographs at my paris gallery, you see? i really need to see him before i leave.
welcome to the club.
excuse me?
i hear you’re looking for leon.  that makes me, his old-lady, and now you, looking for the little bastard. leon’s gone, man. vanished. you interested in his photographs?
uh-huh.
no shit... well, i’m afraid i can’t help you.
i take it you don’t know where he is, then?
huh! you could always try suicide bridge.  you don’t know leon, do you?
i know his work better than i know him.
let me put it this way then; the photographs and the man? one and the same, man, one and the same. at best fucking weird, at worst fucked-up fucking weird. maybe you should think yourself lucky. some folks just ain’t worth getting involved with. and leon sure is one of ‘em.
what about his girlfriend?
what about which girlfriend?
small, blond, good-looking. she was with him when we met. she had a funny english accent.
oh. that’d be rhian, a welsh chick he used to lay at weekends. she got wise and dumped him months ago...
would you know where i might reach her?
yeah! somewhere in wales. i don’t really know her. used to turn up in a transit van on weekends, sell old furniture at camden. that’s how come he only laid her at weekends, ha ha...
could that be camden market?
yeah. why? you’re going to look for her... shit! you really think his pictures are that good?
fucked-up fucking weird.
directory enquiries. can i help you?
yes. i’m trying to reach a friend but i can’t get through. the number is 01766 770 471.
01766 770 471. let me check it for you, sir.
there’s nothing wrong with the line, sir. are you sure you have the right number? 770 471 is the number of a call box.
a call box? that’s odd. where exactly?
penrhyndeudraeth, north wales.
can you tell me how you spell...
this is private property. the public footpath is back to the left of the bridge.
how are you, rhian?
it’s wet. will this do?
where’s your wallet? have you got a wallet?
is this some kind of mugging? because...
shut up! where’s your wallet?
in my jacket. left inside pocket.
reach for it and throw it to me. and... my finger’s on the trigger, you hear!
a private investigator... you’re not austrian?
should i be?
what’s a french private investigator doing here?
can i get up now?
no! what do you want here? how do you know me?
as you know from speaking to phil, your friend leon has disappeared, rhian. his family have hired me to find him.
...leon’s not here. how did you get here? phil doesn’t know where i live.
well, i obviously do. and i also know that leon’s not here, rhian. but i thought that you might know where i should look for him.
you thought wrong. i haven’t seen leon for months.
haven’t you? then why the worried messages on his answering machine, rhian? i’d have sworn you expect him to be in trouble.
you-you’re wrong. i just called to ask if i could stay with him next time i’m in london. that’s all.
what are you going to do now? call the police?  take him away? i must warn you he’s terrified of men, so...
shut up!
we didn’t quite make it as lovers... leon is a good man, though...
did leon tell you why he didn’t want the police involved, rhian?
he just said he had good reasons.
good reasons?
that’s what he said. i tried to dissuade him... told him i couldn’t take on another child, that he’d get into trouble... i mean, people who sell children... but he wasn’t listening... i guess he finally found himself a crusade... his family think he’s back on drugs, eh?  huh... leon did drugs. a lot of drugs. went through his self-destruct phase, you know?  things to come to terms with. demons to fight... some people’s minds are gloriously uncomplicated. not leon’s. he did beat the drug, though. he did.
his mother would be pleased to hear that.
yeah... but he didn’t beat the demons...  a quarter of all the shoes sold in europe are made by or retailed through his parent’s leather empire. all started from a small shop in the east end of london and war reparation money for holocaust victims.
i’m afraid i don’t understand.
they’re german jews. came here before the war. they both lost all their families in extermination camps, but they themselves never went near one. the idea that his family wealth was started with money he believes should have gone to camp survivors has been haunting leon. it’s not guilt, more of a curse...  and then there’s something about his parents being involved with nazi hunters... but i think that’s just one of leon’s dark delusions...
do you know leon’s parents names?
albert... albert and ethel. why?
who else knows about the boy?
my sister... she lives in the next valley.
is she on the phone?
yes...you-you’re not going to take shiva away?
i can’t think of a good reason for it - for now anyway. my number if anything happens. what’s your sister’s number?
oh, i... she just moved. i’ve got her new... it’s in my book in the kitchen. wait... thank you.
and you better stop greeting strangers with a shotgun. if leon’s austrian was looking for you i reckon he’d have found you before i did.
i’m sorry. it’s just you don’t look local...
no sick people in the country, huh?... just tell me one thing, rhian. leon’s story about the boy? you just took his word for it?
he’d come prepared. he had something besides shiva... ‘sleeping beauty’. the disney film...  well, it looked like the disney film. it was something else. i couldn’t watch...
qu’est-ce que tu veux?
un autrichien. negociant en pré- pubescents.
what’s an hour of your time worth these days, nathalie?  combien, nathalie!
cinq cents.
viens.
j’ai bien peur qu’il te faudra attendre.  pas avant la matinée.
tu sais où me trouver.
bye. and thanks... nathalie gently closes the door, eyes lombard who shakes himself awake... rolls her eyes and surveys the room...
où est passé ton salon?
mon bureau coûtait trop cher.
eh bien... t’es sûr que t’as besoin de moi?  la petite m’a l’air assez bien foutue, non?
alors?
alors quoi?
le montage, l’emballage. not your regular street muck, is it? this is collectors’ stuff. how much would it cost me?
a l’achat, trois ou quatre mille. en location, cinq cent. mais ça pourrait faire plus. je ne sais pas. c’est pas vraiment mon truc.  i don’t know any austrian, xavier.
but maybe you know someone who does. an austrian, in london, dealing in kids and snuff videos. how many can there be? these people supply to order. he has to be known, reachable.
then why don’t you reach him?
i don’t have your credentials, nathalie.
we are so alike, xavier. still, sometimes i wonder which one of us is the ugliest.
if you can, send me a receipt.
moreau? c’est moi. alors...
salut, laurent. ouais. it wasn’t easy but i got what you wanted through interpol. say, what’s your business with these spitzes?
they lost their son. why?
it appears that in their younger days they were actively involved with a shady german group of nazi hunters known as “never forget”. over the years we’re talking about a dozen or so execution-type killings.
are they still operative?
their last suspected kill occurred two years back, though your spitzes now probably do no more than bankroll the group. still, i’d watch my step. these people are well-connected, laurent; former israeli prime minister, etc. the lady’s also president of an international zionist organisation... anyway, you get the picture.
mossad?
it’s a good guess...
i’m calling about the puppies.
have we done business before?
i saw the ad at george’s.  i’m passing through town and i’m in a hurry.
may i have your phone number?
why?
this is a bad line.
what sort of puppy are you looking for?
what sort have you got?
pups. bitches. from three to twelve months.  trained and untrained ones. white and brown ones. you understand?
yeah.
we also provide 24-hour after-sale service. were the puppy to fall sick or accidently die, we would unburden you, you understand?
yes... good, good...
so, what are you looking for?
what about an untrained pup, white...
how much of a hurry are you in?
tomorrow?
i’m afraid the only pups currently available at such notice are brown and trained. but they are all very cheerful and have been thoroughly checked for diseases...
i see. how much?
fifteen for a straight delivery. twenty with the provision of a safe place. visitors tend to find the second option more convenient.
... fine. i’ll go for the safe place.
have the money ready by 11am. we’ll call you.
i won’t comment on the time but you’ll understand if i don’t tell you to sit down. now, spare me the apology and get to the point, will you, mr lombard.
i’m afraid i have bad news, mr de moraes. i have reason to believe your brother’s in trouble.
for your information, mr lombard, trouble is possibly the one thing leon is capable of getting into all by himself. though i doubt he will not ultimately fail even at that.
i don’t know. he seems to delight in so much sisterly love, he might become determined.
oh-oh! touché, mr lombard! but tell me, what would you know about sisterly love, eh?  no. don’t. you might get confused speaking of things you don’t understand and we need you clear- headed, at least until you’ve done what we are paying you for.
now you are confusing me, mrs de moraes.
can it be that easy?
can it be that you want your brother found?
anything is possible.
i found this at your brother’s.
disney! how inter...
it’s a snuff movie. prime paedophile material. i’m told it retails at around £4,000.  i see you don’t require a definition.
you... you found that at leon’s?
there’s more. your brother also purchased a young boy for £15,000.
you seem surprised. could it be you don’t think that badly of him after all?  you needn’t worry. it seems his motives were pure. from what i can make out he bought the boy to rescue him from further abuse.
what... what are you talking about?
your brother got mixed up with child procurers  and tried to make this world a better place, mrs de moraes. and having rescued one little life he unwisely set out to repeat the exercise.  you don’t mess around with child procurers. right now my guess is he’s either on the run, held captive, or dead.  i understand your misgivings, mrs de moraes. but i’ve seen the boy and made telephone contact with the man leon bought him from. if anyone knows what happened to your brother it will be that man. which leads me to why i’m here at such a late hour. i need £20,000, in cash, by 11 this morning.
excuse me?
i need the money to smooth my way, you understand? now, have you got that sort of cash here or do we need to meet in the morning?
i will of course do my best to hang onto it.
where is it?  he. the boy you said my brother bought! where is he?
i can’t tell you that yet. but he’s being well looked after.
oh no. you’ll have to do better than that, mr lombard.
look, mrs de moraes, however much of a let down it might be, your brother’s not back to his old weekend tricks! impressionable as he is, he probably grew tired of healthy girls in grisly poses, tried moving on to bigger things, came upon more than he’d bargained for and somehow fancied he could take on the real world. which he no doubt chanced upon on his way to that thing now sitting on your table... have a look at it, mrs de moraes. i told you i had bad news...
how dare you...  you don’t know this tape belongs to my brother, do you, mr lombard?
the question now is whether or not your brother still owns anything, mrs de moraes.
no. the question now is how long it’s going to take you to get out of here, mr lombard.
excuse me?
get out of my house. you’re fired, mr lombard.
perhaps i should come back when you’re...
no. you’re fired! get out of my house. and take your sick tape with you...
laurence!
i was hired by your parents, mrs de moraes.
the family hired you and i have just fired you, mr lombard.
why me, mrs de moraes? why should such well-connected people as you hire a small- time french detective to look for their missing son, mrs de moraes?
huh! who do you think we are, mr lombard?
couldn’t nazi hunters do the job?
it’s about the puppy. you got the money?
yeah.
at what time will you be available?
three o’clock.
‘le mercury’. newman street. ask for peter.
i still don’t buy your story but i figured it can’t do any harm to let you go on with your enquiry. besides, if you do turn out to be nothing but a cheap little extortioner, we could always get the right people onto you. i trust you know who i am talking about.
you drive a hard bargain.
five to three. you’re early.
should i come back in five minutes?
i gather we’ve done business with a friend of yours?
have you?
the person who put us in touch seems to think so.
i don’t recollect mentioning a friend.
your lady friend did.
the lady’s not a friend. she’s a whore.  someone at a special screening i attended mentioned certain goods could be got from an austrian here in london. and not just movies.
and while visiting our fair city you...  an austrian?
an austrian.
an austrian... not much to go on, is it?
questions can amount to revelations. now, i’d hate to think i was made to come here carrying a substantial amount of money in order to be subjected to a cross- examination. mr friedman led me to believe we had a deal. do we?
will you be alone?  the merchandise. is it just you or...
i’ll be alone.
you must agree to be blindfolded...  just for the journey. it might appear unseemly - you’re the paying customer - but ordinarily clients come with some kind of endorsement.
what happens now?
we conclude our transaction.
the room’s yours for 24 hours. it’s sound- proofed, stocked up with food, drink and other things you might find useful. you can do anything you like.
anything at all?
anything at all. i presume you won’t want to take the boy with you when you’re finished?  there’s a £500 fee for disposal. the boy is yours, you understand?
vous êtes français?
does it matter?
on the bed!
what...?
where is the austrian?
you... fuck you!
you’re not playing with little boys now, scumbag. where is the austrian?
jee... fuck... you’re fucking mad!
who are you?
where is the austrian? is friedman the austrian?
yes. friedman’s the fuckin’ austrian!
where is he?
i don’t know. he’s gone!  he’s gone. i don’t fucking know where, i swear... he’s gone. on holiday...
...on holiday?
yeah... this morning. he left this fucking bloody morning... jesus, man, my knees...
who’s the money man?
who?  martin... he’s martin...
ever seen him before?
no... no...  i swear...
what’s this place? a hotel of some kind?
yeah... the diplomat.
where?
what?
where are we?
finsbury park. we’re in finsbury park.
where are the kids?
what kids?
there were six on offer, you scumbag. where are the other five?
i don’t know...  this is just a delivery place, man! i swear i don’t know where the kids are... i work for martin, that’s all. martin knows. he works for friedman. he knows...
and who does friedman work for?
the company. we all work for the company.
what company?
i don’t know. i don’t know, man. i don’t even know friedman that well... i...  man, you’ve got to get me out of here...
how many of you scumbags are here?
just me...  martin’s gone back to the ambassador. look...
what’s the ambassador?
another hotel. down the road. martin lives there. he took your money. he’s got a safe...  i need a doctor...
what about the staff?  they’re in on what’s going on, aren’t they?  how many of them?
f-five. the wilsons and their three kids. they run the place. look, man, i’ve got to get to...
what colour is your car?  what colour is your car?
b-black...
where is it?
downstairs... at the front... jesus...
problems?
is my money in there?
uh-huh. you could’ve waited for me inside.
let’s go.
i don’t know what your problem is, but...
right now your big friend at the diplomat is bleeding fast, martin. he might still possibly survive if attended to soon. and he did cooperate.
am i supposed to know him?
six weeks ago. he bought a boy of yours.
clients come and go.
this one came back and was never seen again. i understand friedman looked after him.
huh, i doubt it...  friedman only deals directly with select customers. i handle the rabble...
where is friedman?
look, i don’t think you’re fully aware of what you’re playing with here, mister. whoever put you up to this either pays too well or misinformed you. why don’t you just tell me what it is you want so we can do business in a civilized manner, eh?
friedman lives with you at the ambassador?
no. in hampstead... why?
don’t jump any red lights.
this car needs petrol.
shut up and drive!
you’re out of your mind. what’s the idea?
maybe the thought of people like you going on holiday bothers me. come on, let’s go...
is it real?  you people are sick.
huh. i’d have thought a tough guy like you would know better. the sick ones are out there, friend. they make up the clientèle. get rid of them and we’re out of business.
only feeding the disease, eh, martin?
money talks, bullshit walks, whether you like it or not.
maybe i don’t.
maybe you should. think about it. those who can afford our goods do their thing without upsetting anyone. those who can’t do it to kids from the streets or their own family and it makes upsetting headlines.
i’m overcome by your public-spiritedness.
boys like the one you met today are surplus. commodities worth a handful of notes in whatever arsehole of the world they happen to be born into. we improve some lives buying them where they’re not wanted, improve still more selling them where they are. is that too hard for you?
you know what, martin? i ought to tie you down with your old arse up in the air and advertise the hole in the middle of it to the world. free. and hope you never die.
huh... i’m sure there’d be lots of takers.
could someone have hurt you that bad?
is this friedman?
who are you? who are you working for, huh?
is this friedman, martin?  come on, scumbag. you’ve reached your sell- by date. tell me if this is friedman, where he is in los angeles and what name he’s using?
you’re making a mistake, tough guy. whoever he is, your guy’s not one of friedman’s...
you seem very sure about that.
i told you... the rabble, it’s me...  huh... it’s sad.
what is?
dying without ever reaching the top...
trying to say something, martin?
hyatt... friedman’s... at the hyatt...
the hyatt...? what’s that?
ho-hotel... los angeles... he...
thank you for coming. come in and close the door, will you?
last night you upset my sleep. tonight my social life. we have two minutes. my dinner guests are waiting.
you lost my money?
you could say that. and friedman left this morning for los angeles.
who is friedman?
the man who sold the boy to your brother.
i’m impressed. that information could have cost me £20,000.
well, i found a little more than that. let me put it this way:...  last night i thought your brother might be dead, tonight i’m convinced he is. that said, i have no evidence and i advise you to let the police deal with it.
are we understood?
you watched the tape?  friedman and his people don’t just provide little kids and videotapes, mrs de moraes. they’re in the import-export business. they run hotels here in london which they probably use as ware- houses and ports of call for their merchandise.
huh! really? hotels?
the hotels are useful capital investments. the kids liquid assets. my guess is they own hotels across the globe, and travel agencies specialising in flights from the third world to boot.
minimizes the risks. children can be moved across borders using reliable businesses. these can also be used to move women and drugs... anything that makes money really.
w-why are you telling me all this, mr lombard?
you drive a hard bargain, mr lombard.
you do want me to keep the job, don’t you, mrs de moraes?
she’s pretty... see you, huh?
bye bye, jane. and don’t be naughty.
i’m sorry but mr gluck is not answering, sir.  would you like to leave a message?
i’ll call again.
the hyatt. good afternoon. may i help you?
can i have the reception desk, please.
mr lombard?
have you got a pen?
just a moment...  go ahead.
the mondrian, room 504. the number is 266 7548, plus the l.a. code...
...7548. have you... have you found him yet?
are you all right?
yes... you woke me up... it’s the middle of the night here. have you found mr friedman?
not yet. the place i hoped to find him turns out to be little more than a contact address. i’ll give it 24 hours. he just might show up.  if you need to reach me ask for mr lamont. paul lamont, all right?
paul lamont...?
yeah. goodnight, mrs de moraes.
good morning, sir. how can i help you?
a coffee and a couple of croissants.
crow what?
croissants.
i’m sorry, sir. could you try that again?
croissants. like that...
the word for those things is croissants.
not in america, sir. you must be from europe.  so, black coffee and a couple of crescents.
does mr gluck call for his messages?
absolutely, sir. as a matter of fact he called this morning, sir.
next time he calls tell mr gluck he better be there to take his calls at 9 tonight or at 9 in the morning if he cares about his puppies. got that?
got it. puppies.
mr lombard. mrs de moraes...
uh... wait a moment, mrs de moraes...
what is it?
this is the hotel supervisor, mr lamont. i’m terribly sorry to disturb you but there’s been a mix-up with our bookings which you might be able to help us resolve.
what are you talking about?
we need a double-room and as i understand you’re here alone we’d be much obliged if you’d agree to move to a single room...
and you ain’t neither one of those damned mexicans who end up littering the landscape after getting ripped-off by their friendly cross- border guides, are you, mister?
no...
i didn’t think so. the rags on their sorry backs are the only wordly possessions those wretched creatures are ever found with...  i don’t wanna know who you are or how come you ended up roasting in owl canyon. but you might as well know i’d have let you fry to a buzzard meal if not for this...
now, can you stand up?  can you use your legs and stand up?
i... how long have i been here?
three days and that’s three days too many.come on. get your ass up.
huh... i guess you ain’t quite ready for civilisation yet... i’ll give you one more day, a meal, and then you’re on your way.
los angeles?
los angeles is 100 miles away.
i’d appreciate it if i could use your phone.
i’m sure you would. but if i had one, i wouldn’t let you near it. now you tuck back in and rest until you’re told otherwise.  and for what it’s worth, i wouldn’t try anything that might be construed as unappreciative of my hospitality. i’d sooner shoot you than have you upset me...
barstow’s 30 miles to the left. los angeles a hundred to the right. wherever you’re heading, i reckon somebody’ll pick you up.
huh... i suppose the idea of a one day trip to los angeles doesn’t appeal to you...
is that where lawyers toil for an industry that turns serial killers into heroes who give thrills to young women who write erotic novels about psychopaths and rapists?  you go to your world, i’ll stay in mine. so long, mister.
may i ask where you’re from, mr lamont?
europe...  france. i’m french but i live in london...  ... england.
you’re a long way from home...
you wouldn’t have a cigarette, would you?
i don’t smoke. if you could get to the point...
you’re sure you won’t sit down, miss stewart?
i’m fine standing, thank you.
is this some kind of sick stunt? let me guess.  you want money, right?
a small loan would be welcome. more urgently, i need access to a telephone and an address where things can be sent to me.
i can’t believe this...  what’s coming now, eh? if i don’t pay all hell’s gonna break loose, is that it?
well, i’d sooner mug an old lady...
you...  jesus christ!
okay. the woman just can’t walk away...  i want straight answers. no hesitation or i walk for sure. why can’t you go to your embassy?
french people need a visa to enter this country. that takes time and i didn’t have any. i used a british passport. my name’s not lamont but lombard. xavier lombard.
where were you staying before the attempt on your life and why can’t you go back there?
the mondrian, room 504. i was checked out in my absence.
by your austrian?
yeah.
you don’t know why he’s come to los angeles?  the man you say he killed? who was he? a colleague of his?
no. a poor little rich boy who thought he’d save a few kids from their retailer. he disappeared on his second shopping expedition.
have you never heard of collect calls, mr...
lombard...  it will take a few days for the things i need to get here. meanwhile i’d sooner not draw police attention walking the streets like a hungry dog...
there are over 4 million people in this city - why me?
i thought you’d never ask... as i was having my coffee and crescents at the mondrian the other morning i spotted your photograph in the los angeles times... there’s a tough lady, i thought. just the kind who might help me...
you know where to look for your austrian, right?
i know where to look.
i might come back, i might not. but if i do, it won’t be for a couple of hours.
there’ve been 7 international treaties since 1904 aimed at preventing child slavery. but still no worldwide body dedicated to investigating the maltreatment of children used in sexual exploitation. officially, it’s just not called for. sit down. can i offer you some coffee?
i wouldn’t mind. thank you.
a recent acquisition. we’ve had four break- ins this year alone; files stolen, computers wrecked, faeces smeared on walls. the good guys dismiss us as alarmist do-gooders; the bad guys will risk prison to intimidate and rob us. an easy living indeed, mr lombard.  i got through to moreau and jane. i left your landlord out of it. your flat’s been broken into. jane wants you to call her back.
hah... what about nathalie?
no answer. you have no passport and your embassy’s out. how do you plan to leave the u.s., mr lombard?
i’m sure i’ll find a way.
like you’ll find a way to stop your austrian killing you a second time round?
thank you for the guided tour, but would you mind telling me what we’re doing here?
how come you’re alive? child traffickers usually achieve what they set out to do.  what am i really looking at here, huh?  are you really not just a lousy private eye? am i really looking at some kind of cunning dispenser of justice in disguise?
did you call me up here to enjoy yourself, emily, or to let me use your phone? because we seem to have a slight problem...
whitney armstrong, my deputy. what whitney’s trying to say is that you might not live to tell the tale next time you meet your austrian...
and losing you, we’d lose him. and that would be a shame, don’t you agree?
hi...
if you have hard evidence about a child trafficker, we want it, mr lombard. and we want it before you get yourself killed...
most of our information comes out of the mouths of babes, mr lombard - confused and frightened victims. it’s all too easily discredited, you understand. now, you might be just what we’ve been waiting for. your information could be enough to make ‘em sit up and listen.
it’s give and take time, mr lombard. you need help, we need information. you didn’t really expect me to put my ass on the line helping a criminal just for the thrill of it, did you?
a criminal?
did you not enter this country illegally?
huh... i have no... ... hard evidence...
come on, mr lombard. you tailed your man all the way here from europe. you told me you knew where to find him, remember? or didn’t i hear you right?
a little too tight, eh?  ...they were my son’s. only thirteen and already six feet tall. a real lanky boy...  i... there’s some cold chicken salad in the fridge if you’re hungry.
thank you. but i think i’ll go to bed. it’s been a long day.
right... well, i’ll get your money first thing in the morning, okay?  okay. goodnight then.
yeah. goodnight, emily.
don’t fall asleep with your hair wet.
what am i to do with the packages if...
burn the passport and keep the money. think of it as a donation to the cause...
you sure you passed on my message?
i certainly did, sir...
hot...  these roads all round here, closed to the public... why’s that? military bases?  huh. i guess there’s space enough for war games... must be good for business.
must it?
all those soldiers out there... getting bored, thirsty. come out here for refreshment or female company perhaps?
ain’t nobody out there, mister.
nobody? huh!... how come?
maybe for the same reason that made someone somewhere not consider this a spot to build the getty museum...
ha-ha... yeah...  what about that road back there, though? it says ‘closed to the public’, doesn’t it?
you a tourist?
ha ha... yes. with prices reaching an all time low, the name of the game has become ‘have-it- where-it’s-at’... as we all know, transportation has always been the costliest and trickiest part of this business...
cost what?
costliest!
what’s that? a word?
what do you think?
i don’t know. could be the sound of jewellery hitting a parquet floor, huh?
very funny. can i go on now?
sure. but speak english, will ya, ha ha...
get a pen and don’t ask any questions.
oh. what... yeah. okay.
route 395. past edwards air force base and about half a mile before a place called the red mountain motel. there’s a dirt track with a ‘closed to the public’ sign. it leads to some kind of ranch in the middle of nowhere. if you haven’t heard from me by morning send the cavalry, okay? but not before, you hear?
have you found your man? is that where he is?
i think so. and if it comes to it, tell the cops anything you think will make them move. whatever you came up with couldn’t come close to how bad it is. bye now.
okay, shitbag. i’m only going to ask you this once. where is friedman?
who?  i don’t know who the fuck you’re talking about, sunshine.
gluck.
figlio di puttana. you’re the french asshole who bumped off the london guys...
five seconds. then you die.
fuck...
three...
gluck’s dead, you sonofabitch!
you’re the lantern man, huh?  if you wanna see what’s left of him...
the acid bath?
huh! you’ve been around, eh?
why did you kill friedman?
let me give you a tip, asshole - no one pulls stunts like what you pulled in london and here tonight and hopes to get away with it. it upsets people. it’s wrong. fucking wrong.
why did you kill him?
huh! you turned him into a liability, didn’t you know?
nice way to help a colleague in trouble.
that’s just it. the sonofabitch didn’t ask for help from his colleagues...  testa di cazzo! hiring some amateur outsiders to fix you... he hasn’t gone to hell too soon... and neither will you, mr lamont!
are you telling me friedman didn’t tell you i was here looking for him?
if he had, you’d be dead.
so why didn’t he?
what do you think, huh?
i think you’d rather not know what i think.
huh. maybe he figured the news our london bureau got a visit from a hitman on behalf of a pissed off client wouldn’t go down too well. he only shared his guilty secret last night. and then only ‘cause he was so fucking edgy after calling his hotel we persuaded him to talk.
so you killed him and went to clean out his hotel room... how did friedman say he got to know where to find me?
that’s the beauty. an anonymous call. makes you wonder how many people know what you’re up to, eh, french-fuck?
try again, and this time be polite.
i can only tell you what he told us...
not even scum like friedman would go to the trouble of killing a stranger on the strength of one anonymous call.
some guy called to let him know the frenchman who’d called the night before he left london was in l.a. looking to kill him. he did his sums and decided to take the call seriously.
what sums?
two stiffs and a missing kid followed your visit to one of the london hotels. he didn’t need your confession...
you’re sure he said his caller was a man?
that’s what he said...
when they realise i’m missing...
shut up and walk...
what you gonna do? kill me?
don’t tempt me. the last scumbag who thought i might kill him died soon afterwards.
huh. i’m a businessman. what are you, eh?
look, you don’t tell me about some godforsaken place where stuff so bad even i couldn’t imagine it goes down and expect me to go quietly to sleep! what happened? who’s the guy? the austrian?
who’s the guy? who’s the guy! nom de dieu!  had the guy got a closer look at you or your number plate i’d have had to kill him.
what...?
what...  some kind of organ factory... pregnant girls doped up. babies. there’s a lot of people back there. they’re holding a seminar. trafficking’s the past, breeding the future...
friedman’s dead... they killed him...
so who... who’s the man? where is he?
some italian i picked up back there. he’s in the boot of the mustang.
italian? the mafia...?
who knows. who cares...  you wanted slime. you got slime.
no one saw me but the italian and a dog. i blew up their generator. they thought it was an accident but by now they must have realised one of their party is missing. it might make them feel insecure enough to decide to pack up...
we’re both thinking the same thing, right?
do you know a friendly cop?
call from the motel and tell him if he moves fast enough there might be something left of a body dissolving in acid.  can i have the keys to your house?
that-that won’t do. that’s not the way it goes. you saw it, you tell it, that’s the way...
i’m finished here and i’m tired, emily. you shouldn’t be here. now don’t make it worse.
a seminar in a baby breeding farm! bodies in acid! you think i’ll get anywhere with that? jesus! with luck i might raise a laugh. they might even send a patrol car to check the place out. whatever, it’ll be too late.
then find another way.
look! either you talk or the creeps are gonna walk. for god’s sake. what am i supposed to say? i got this from a french guy from england who broke in there to have a chat with an austrian child trafficker? is that it?
damn it! you can’t fucking walk away from this!
it’s up to you whether they walk or not.
...i’m emily stewart. the hysterical female who sees evil everywhere since the day her thirteen year-old boy disappeared. the pain in the ass who cries wolf at the drop of a hat. however i go about this that’s who i am. do you get what i’m fucking saying, mr lombard?
what about your friendly cop?
my ex-husband. my work drove him away. made his life a misery. he thinks i’m obsessed, punishing myself for what happened to our son.  but he’s a good guy. he’ll listen to you. he won’t turn you in if i ask him not to. i can pretty much guarantee that. okay?
they’d never let me go. and you’d end up in more trouble than you know for helping me.
you cannot walk away from this. you cannot.
i can... the question is, can you lie to your ex- husband?
we’ve still got the italian...
that’s right. where’s the fucking italian, eh, mr french hero?
look at him, whitney. come all the way from england to clean up california. huh!
emily...
no. you’re looking at a real musketeer here, whitney. brave and rash. had to dash in there.  take a prisoner... might as well have sent them a notice to quit...  come on, musketeer! got anything to say?
nothing sticks to slime, emily.  this should cover what you lent me.
huh! and they say charity’s only rewarded in heaven... hallelujah...  christ...
shit! fuck! what’s fucking wrong with people!  i’m going to bed. and sweet dreams to you to!
she’ll be alright. she’s tough...
what’s the date?
the nineteenth... how come you didn’t know?
i’ve been away.  did leon speak to you about his sister?
er... yes...
did he ever refer to the hostility between them?
he... apparently the hostility was all hers. leon didn’t... it hurt him. they used to be close...  their parents were in their forties when they were born, you see. and mostly away. they grew up in a scottish mansion with old nannies and servants. he... “our world was so old and cold, we shone for one another,” leon used to say. his sister cut him off after she got married. he never understood why but thought it was because she had no children. was bitter...
the money leon left for the boy, was it cash?
yes. three thousand pounds. i still...
did he mention anything about having an exhibition of his work?
... no.
you sure? what about before he turned up with the boy?
... no. in fact, i’d seen him a couple of months earlier. he was quite depressed. his work wasn’t getting anywhere. he said he was going to try something new, realism, london in the nineties - documentary stuff, you know...
he showed me a book with a picture of a couple caught kissing in a street...
how’s the boy doing?
fine...
good. you needn’t worry about the austrian anymore. he’s dead. i’ll be in touch.
i came to feed your fish. i didn’t know...
oui, bonjour, jean... oui, très bien, merci. dites-moi, pourriez-vous me dire si vous avez recommandémes services àquelqu’un récemment... vous êtes certain... non, non...  je vous remercie...
hello there. how’s the flat. i cleaned...
jane, there was an envelope in my desk. the one i’d given you and then got back, remember? i can’t find it. do you know where it is?
no... i told you on the phone. whoever broke in messed-up all your papers. i put everything back where i thought it ought to be.  maybe it’s there with...
it’s not.
well, i’m sorry. i...  this is my nephew... and my brother, tim. i’ve got the week off and he’s come to stay.
good afternoon. de moraes’s residence.
could i speak to carlos or deborah?
i’m afraid they are out at the moment, sir.
when will they be back?
mr de moraes is due back from brazil late this evening. mrs de moraes is out and not expected before eight. do you wish...
piss off!
thanks for cleaning my flat and sending my money, all right?... come on, i need you. it’s important.
just ask if they can recall recommending my services to anyone in the recent past. say you’re my secretary, all right?
your secretary, huh!
i’d appreciate it if you could do this for me. if you can’t, don’t worry about it. i’ll call in about an hour anyway. sorry but i’m in a hurry.
what are you up to, eh, savieer? i mean, not this but... money, passports, a gun in a microwave? who are you, eh? who are you?
by the way, laurence, were you here last time your mistress’s brother came over? you know, just before he disappeared?
i work here, sir. i’m here most of the time.
you wouldn’t recall if the brothers-in-law left together, would you?
you will have to ask mr de moraes that, sir.  would you like a drink while you wait?
no. thank you. i’ll be fine...
mrs de moraes must have taken it hard, eh?  her brother’s death.
dial o-o-o on the telephone if you change your mind about the drink, sir.
hello, jane. it’s me.
really? and how are you, eh?  someone called pierre dreyer said that a month ago he had dinner with a brazilian friend of...
carlos de moraes?
yes. how did...
thank you, jane.
mr lombard...
how are you, mrs de moraes?
when did you get back?
why don’t you ask when i left the mondrian?
i’m really sorry you were not called...
you’re repeating yourself, mrs de moraes.
i... well, we’re burying leon tomorrow and... look, i wish i had more time, but it’s late and with the funeral...
aren’t you curious to know about friedman?
i... if you don’t mind, i do not think he matters now. it... things turned out to be as we thought; leon was weak. there’s no point in delving into his sad life anymore. now, will you please tell me how much we owe you?
black suits you.
sorry?
what’s in the bag? underwear? to seduce your husband? or is it for your own recreation?  tell me, how come such a handsome couple sleep in seperate bedrooms? is it because he does it with little children?
or is it the other way round? the children are needed because you can’t satisfy him?
you... you are out of order, mr lombard. i...
you what, mrs de moraes? you what?
how did you break into my office, deborah? ladies of your standing don’t learn to pick locks between shopping trips.  come on, deborah! acting dumb doesn’t suit you! who knew i’d found dirt on your brother, huh? who knew it was in an envelope? taking me for dead, who’d want to make sure it didn’t fall into the wrong hands?
you’re mad...
i’ve had a long and unpleasant day. i’m tired and i’m angry. but mad? not yet.  i paid leon’s boy a visit this morning. found him alive and well. why haven’t you told your husband where he is since reading my note, eh?
why... i don’t know what you’re talking about.
you know he’d have had him killed, don’t you? does a conscience still burn somewhere inside your sore mind, deborah? or is it just cold expediency? could the boy perhaps come in useful when and if the day ever comes for you to face up to the man you married?
have you finished?
when did you learn about his taste for kids, huh? on your honeymoon? or was it later, when bitterness set in and you turned against your beloved but weak little brother? how did you find out? did he confess? try to convert you perhaps? or was it woman’s intuition? or just the way he fucked you?
you do have a vivid imagination, mr lombard. i only wish you’d use it fruitfully instead of in being obnoxious. i fail to understand your purpose in this. still, say what you’re owed if you still wish to be paid or get out, all right?
i guess the news you’d sent me after friedman didn’t go down too well, eh?
whatever the reason, i’m sorry i did. goodbye, mr lombard. i believe you know your way out.
you knew he had nothing to do with your brother’s disappearance, didn’t you?
huh! don’t you recall convincing me he had?  you should learn to live with your mistakes, mr lombard. there is some merit in it.
i take it you learnt to live with yours then. take it all the mind-dulling pills in your medicine cabinet are surplus to your well-being...
how... when did you...
it must be tough being married to adonis to end up sleeping alone every night. sleep must be hard coming. what’s harder? the thought of the fine litter you two could have bred if? or imagining what he does with his children?
tell me, did he kill his little victims too?
no!
what do you mean, ‘no’, mrs de moraes?
my brother hung himself.
does the name pierre dreyer mean anything to you? he’s a client of mine and a friend of your husband.
leon hung himself.
adonis thought your brother’s body’d be found reasonably quickly when he hung it in epping forest, didn’t he? seemed like a good idea. an ex-junkie, obsessed with death; the perfect candidate for suicide. he just forgot one thing: forest ramblers are rare during your average blustery english november. an englishman might have thought of that, but a brazilian...
leon hung himself...
leon’s not found, your parents worry, talk of hiring help to find him, even mention their manhunter friends perhaps... and adonis panics, takes control, brings me in reckoning a small- time detective is unlikely to dig up anything awkward, not before leon’s found anyhow. he must have kicked himself when he learned i’d exceeded his expectations.
leon hung himself...
leon didn’t hang himself, deborah. your husband killed him and made his death look like suicide. how did he do it, eh? strangulation? drugs? no doubt an autopsy will tell.
i doubt friedman ever even met leon, deborah. friedman dealt with select customers. as for my envelope, had he know where it was he wouldn’t have mistaken me for a hitman called lamont when we met in los angeles.
...you-you spoke to him?
not in the strict sense of the word, no. he was in too much of a hurry to kill me when we first met and too wasted in acid when i caught up with him later.
your brother stumbled upon adonis’s little secret, didn’t he? and traded his silence for a kid and some cash. and adonis fell for it, bought him his kid, sent him away, and then killed him when he came back for more.  leon didn’t come here to borrow money for prints. he came to extort a second kid’s life. your flunkey let him in, so his visit couldn’t be concealed, hence the exhibition story. there was no exhibition. just as you suspected. remember, deborah? “leon does his own prints. wouldn’t want anyone to interfere with his ‘art’”.  i should have paid more attention to your words. perhaps it’s the way you say them...
if-if my car is there, i could be the one who... why don’t you accuse me of killing my brother?
kids are not your thing, deborah. you’d have been ready for me when i turned up with ‘sleeping beauty’. damn it! then too i should have paid more attention. “not leon,” you said. it struck me at the time, but obviously not hard enough. you didn’t say ‘my god!’, or whatever else well-bred ladies squeak on hearing uncle henry misbehaved. “not leon.” who then?  you sure were right about one thing, deborah, the job was too formidable for me. i should have thought a little more before i left for los angeles. but there i was focused so hard on friedman i’d stopped thinking. nothing added up - leon soliciting money for prints while buying kids at £15,000 a go; infiltrating the world of child traffickers; duping friedman into selling him a little boy... you sure were right. the job was too formidable for me. but you knew that, didn’t you?
leon could still have hung himself.
oh no. at long last leon had found a mission. he’d never have killed himself when glory beckoned. your husband killed your brother. and thanks to you, almost got me killed too.
you’re wrong about my being there, though. carlos borrowed my car that day, his had broken down...  leon saw it, like you, assumed i was there, thought he’d wait to ask for a lift. but carlos turned up, with the tape you found...  leon got his lift, and accidentally picked up the tape with his photo equipment when he got out. he watched it, confronted carlos, threatened to tell the police about the hotel... i don’t know how he knew about the hotel. perhaps carlos talked too much... my husband did not tell me... you more or less guessed the rest...  i didn’t know any of this before you left for los angeles.
you don’t say.
that my brother, my husband and your mr friedman were linked, that much i had guessed. but that my husband had killed leon? no.
why did you send me after friedman? to atone for your sins?
i didn’t know my husband and friedman knew each other. i just...  do you think we spoke about it? i’ve known for five years. he’s known i’ve known for five years... but not once have we spoken about it. there are things one just doesn’t speak about...
one just doesn’t... tell me, what does one speak about, huh?
think what you like. but don’t presume to understand.
i don’t.
good.
is there anything to understand?
why do i feel i needn’t answer that?
rich. young. beautiful. you must at least get a kick out of what he does to his kids.
you bastard...
five years of it. surely, you’d have divorced him if he disgusted you?
you splendid bastard...
are there truly no extenuating circumstances?
...we’re turning in circles.
and you still haven’t told me why you sent me after friedman.
maybe i wanted to give my husband a fright.
a fright?... five years of cowardice led to your brother being murdered and you wanted to give his murderer a fright?
i didn’t know who or what had happened to my brother yet, mr lombard!
what was the idea? husband is filled with fear when he learns his child supplier’s being tailed?
something like that.
something like that?
something like that.
what happened? adonis slapped you about a little and you reverted to cowardice?
here we go again.
where is that?
simplify and damn.
don’t you believe in simplicity?
should i?
we all have to like what we become. cowards included. we achieve this by complicating things a little. but it’s never that complicated really.
you seem to know what you’re talking about.
perhaps it came to me while dying in a californian desert because a woman set upon giving her husband a fright got slapped about a little.
my husband didn’t need to slap me about, mr lombard. i volunteered...
to get me killed...?
i didn’t intend it that way... it just happened.  he heard from laurence that you’d been back.  that we’d argued. he asked why and it just happened; i told him everything... i couldn’t help it. wanted to see him scared. i had never seen him scared before, you see...
well, i hope you enjoyed yourself.
perhaps i did... until fear turned into panic. that’s when he hit me, and told me he’d killed my brother... “you don’t know what you’ve done,” he said.  “we’re in deep trouble,” he said. “we,” he said. “we.”  we’d both be killed if friedman ever found out you were working for us, he said. we had to stop you and friedman meeting...
you know something? i’ve just seen so much ugliness i don’t think i’d mind four walls and dinner served every night at a regular time.  i’d hoped to have a private word with adonis, but if that’s the way you want it.
what are you doing? you can’t. i...
do you think the boy you saved might identify your husband as his purchaser, deborah? and then, your brother’s not buried yet. as i said earlier, an autopsy will...
he... he is dead!  my husband is dead!  call my parents. they’ll tell you. call them!
do you think we’d let him get away with the murder of my brother?
we? you and your parents killed your husband?
no. not us...
they found his body yesterday. in the pool at our house in sao paulo. he drowned. drank too much, went for a swim and drowned.
your flunkey said he was expected back tonight.
the staff don’t know yet...  i called my parents, told them everything...  i just couldn’t take any more...
get to the point, will you...
my parents flew back from israel... told him they would get him killed unless he flew back to brazil immediately and agreed to a divorce. he flew back to brazil...  and his drowning was arranged...
so you did talk about it, huh?
on... once...  once... what are we... you going to do?
what do you suggest?
i don’t know. everyone’s dead...
your parents arranged the visit to my office?
why the hell couldn’t you divorce the man?
you wouldn’t understand.
i... we have to bury leon tommorrow...
the dead can wait.
£10,000 a year to the girl for as long as she looks after the boy?
plus a trust fund to provide for the boy’s education.
look at it this way. he might achieve everything your son never did.
jah...
