come on, mom. do not fall asleep...
you two ok?
our car will not start.
your mom take anything before this happened?
yeah, but i do not know what.
[beat] what is your name?
jackie.
but i like it i guess.
hey, can you reach the gas pedal?
yeah.
get your fucking hands off my daughter!
mom, he just fixed our car.
jackie, get in the car. now!
you are just going to walk?
yeah, I will hitch a ride or something. [beat] let her throw it all up before she gets back behind the wheel.
what are those?
dog tags. [off her blank look] they have got your name and date of birth for identification.
what for?
[beat] in case you get lost, or can not remember who you are.
i think i can remember what is on them.
william starks. [beat] thanks.
well, your condition's pretty serious.
[beat] so they say. [off becker's steady gaze] what?
I am just looking at you. does that make you uncomfortable?
depends on what you are seeing.
you said you could not remember killing officer harrison. correct?
[beat] you do not believe me, do you?
it is not my job to believe you.
that is kingsley. old bastard hears us, I am sure. he just does not want to bother answering so he makes us think he can not talk. i know. i tried it on my mother for two months once before she fished out my tongue. literally. [beat] you are the cop killer, right?
yeah, guess so. how did you know?
tv. helps numb [makes a "crazy gesture"] any active mind. [sticking out a jittery hand] rudy mackenzie.
i tried to kill my wife.
do not you go to jail for that?
i tried something like 30 times. there is, as starks rightly figures, no suitable response to that.
yeah, well 30 times probably would make you seem crazy.
or just plain stupid. you would think by the twentieth time, I would have found an alternative method. maybe a more effective one, if you know what i mean.
you look like you have lost some weight. are you eating?
i am. one of the few things i remember doing is eating. so i guess i must be exercising it off in my dreams.
you done with your small talk?
sure.
good.
you ok?
I am fine.
[beat] listen, i hate to bother you...
then don't.
but... what about starks?
what about starks?
should we be...
should we be what? trying to change him any way we can? [beat] yes.
but the jacket? i mean...should we be leaving him in like that?
if you are deaf, read my lips...i do not need a psycho following me today.
[beat] I am not deaf.
good.
in case you had not figured, it is christmas eve. you are never going to get a cab here.
[beat] thanks.
all right. [beat] you got somewhere you need to go, mister?
I am not sure.
let me ask you that again. this time, look around and consider your options.
I am not sure.
you do not have anywhere to stay?
i do not think so.
well, where are you from?
I am not sure. [beat] i do not really know.
of course you do not know.
why "of course"?
because in my life, it would not make sense for me to pick up some normal guy with a place where he is from and a place where he is going to. it would be too simple. i probably would not know how to handle a situation like that.
well, you definitely did not pick normal or simple this time either.
well, how did you get here?
[beat] i was dropped off.
do you have a motel or something? money?
no.
well, do not you somewhere? stuff? belongings?
no. [beat] not around here.
great. that was our last option. what am i going to do with you?
nothing. [getting up] thanks for bringing me this far.
where are you going? you will freeze out there. you do not even have a coat.
I will manage.
no, you won't. you will die of cold out there and then I will have to feel guilty. and I have already got more guilt than i know what to do with. [beat] do you want something to drink?
no, I am ok.
[beat] yeah, I am fine.
you know what? it is christmas eve. and you look clean -- i mean, you are normal-looking. [resolutely, for her own benefit] it is christmas eve, and i have a couch.
what is this?
the best i could do with what was in your fridge.
i only lit it because it was so cold in here. I am sorry if...
no, it is fine. [beat, swallow] thanks.
you want a drink?
sure.
this is pretty good. considering...
thanks.
so you are a waitress, right? i mean...from the uniform you were wearing.
yup. that is me.
you like it?
[beat] i do it.
have you always been a waitress?
[beat] why did you stop?
shit happens, and your life changes. 'bout the best explanation of a lot of things that happen. [beat] so how come you do not know where you are coming from?
i do not know, but i think part of it's...
well, good for you.
[beat] why?
[beat] real is overrated.
you do not think that is crazy?
maybe. [beat] maybe not.
this is a great song.
you remember it?
but hey, who can forget those words? the man just wants simple and good things for his woman -- that she be warm and happy. how hard can that be to remember?
may be easy to remember, but not easy to get. being warm, maybe -- but, look, you do not even have a coat and i still have to chop wood to make a fire. [beat] and, being happy...you tell me if that is simple.
they told me i joined the army when i was seventeen. that is when my father died and, before that, it was apparently just me and him since i was born 'cause my mom split.
so you never knew your mother?
i guess not. but, as of now, i never knew either.
I am sorry.
yeah. [beat] how about you?
never knew my father. i grew up with my mother. actually, i grew up around my mother. she was great though. i mean, the way she was with her friends... she was this woman who had so much life in her, she had to find ways to kill some of it just to be like the rest of us. [beat] she died young.
how?
she fucked herself up day after day and then, one day, she fell asleep with a burning cigarette. [beat] i came home from work and she was gone.
I am sorry.
yeah, me too. [softly] every day for the last ten years.
that when you stopped being a nurse?
what did you do? snoop all over the place? you had no right. you had no right to go through anything.
[beat] i know it does not make sense. it does not even make sense to me.
if you do not get out of my house right now, I will call the police.
jackie, I am william starks. i can prove it.
what? now you are going to show me some kind of driver's license?
no, i do not have anything to show you. I am here from a mental hospital.
well, you belong in one.
stop it! stop it! jackie covers her ears and looks at him, pleading with her eyes. starks' eyes plead right back.
I am sorry for upsetting you, [beat] but I am not lying to you.
you can not be william starks. he is dead.
[beat] what?
william starks is dead... [beat] I have been to his grave.
[beat] what?
his body was found new year's day, 19...1993. at alpine...
i looked it up.
how?
i gave you my dog tags.
no, you didn't. they found william starks' body dead in the snow.
how did he die?
i do not know. but he did die. starks falters under the news. jackie looks around, through her now blurred eyes, like she might find some help in the apartment. she settles for the bottle of vodka on the table, lowers the iron fork and takes a long heavy drink, then laughs nervously as she looks up.
i know what this is...i picked you up when i was drunk and you probably thought I am just fucked up enough to fall for this. but the thing is i know what I am doing when i drink. i just usually do not care. right now, i do though. and i want you out. now.
it is december 25th, 1993 today.
no, it is not. [beat] it is december 25th, 2004.
I am telling you i do not care what time you think you are in. you are not william starks. [beat] i do not believe in many things, but i believe in death. and it does not give back what it takes. so whoever you are...i did a nice thing, you have made me regret it enough already, so please, just leave.
I will leave. but look at me. look at my face, jackie. I am not lying. i met you and your mother. i told you then that I would lost my memory. [beat] there was no one for miles around so i know you know there is no way i could have known that from a pair of dog tags you had lying around.
please...
do not get all worked up, justin. i expected some common sense on your part and clearly i was expecting too much. [beat] just open the drawer.
we never should have done this to him...
well, what are we gonna do about it now?
he is recovering on the third floor.
are you kidding me? he is not psychotic!
then how would you describe him, beth? merely rebellious?
i do not know better. all i know is that you left me in there.
in where?
[uncertainly] in that thing...the jacket.
we were forced to use restrains if that is what you are referring to.
that was not a fucking restraint.
actually, that is exactly what our equipment is.
relax.
do not act like i do not know what is real. [beat] I am not the one that is crazy here.
[pointedly] of course you are not.
you are just suffering from delusions that are unfortunately part of your condition.
do not give me that. i know what is real, goddamnit! you strapped me in something and stuck me in a drawer.
i did not dream it. i may have been asleep but it was not a dream. becker sits down in a chair, half-shrouded in the light.
i had a patient a few years ago. his name was ted casey...
i do not give a shit about your patient!
i was not pausing to see if you did. [beat] but, incidentally, you should, because you are birds of a feather.
we are not birds of a feather.
maybe not. [beat] but i do think you are in a tree... woofing like a dog. and I am just trying to help you the only way i can think of.
and if i did not want to come?
i guess I would ask you why.
because i do not think I am crazy.
you are not crazy.
you were convicted of the crime.
that conviction does not convince me of anything. until i know that i did it, I am not going to accept that i did.
you may never remember at all. [beat] your mind's grasp of reality and the real events that have happened to you has been damaged.
no. the real events that have happened to me have been fucked up. not my mind.
why, what would you do?
i could try to...make it stop.
no. i do not want it to.
so it is helping?
you should be careful. you could be killed if they found you out here.
believe me, i know.
what were you talking about the other day?
i was not talking about anything.
yeah, you were. what you said about them taking me out to the woods...
i know you need one when it is really cold.
[cutting in] mackenzie, listen to me. listen. I am going to die.
mortality's actually a great thing to be familiar with. it means you are sane on some level.
[gravely] no, i mean in four days, I am supposed to die.
[beat] how do you know?
the jacket.
oh no, you are pretty young. your body'll be able to handle a lot more of it than you think...
no. [beat] i mean i found out while i was in it that my body's going to be found in four days.
it is going to be sticky.
why?
'cause lorenson's got her claws in it now. when she started getting suspicious about me was when they stopped using it on me. women!
so what am i supposed to do?
you could still always give becker an itch. 'course you might get killed when he goes to scratch it, but seems to me you are saying that is about to happen anyway. [beat] just be careful not to walk yourself right into something.
we are late.
i wish they would skip the formality of this annual review and just cut our budget. our silence on the matter should be enough to appease the civic conscience without wasting an hour we do not have.
maybe it is not such a waste.
it is the ticking of a box on a sheet of paper no one cares about.
they do not care about all the things we do right. [beat] but they might ...they might care about what we are doing wrong. [beat] that is what they should come here to look for.
what should they be looking for?
they should just be looking harder.
where? [beat] it is becker is not it? he is doing stuff, is not he?
later. I will tell you about it later. we got a session to catch now.
long live the organization for the organized!
sit down, mr. starks! sit down, mr. starks!
you ever been to jail?
no.
it is worse than war. it is worse than anywhere you have ever been.
i doubt it. [beat] i do not think prison's so bad you do not want to remember it...
the jacket. that is what they call it, right?
yeah.
it was banned, you know... and it led to an investigation of dr. becker's mistreatment of some of his patients. that is when they found out how badly he was drugging his patients...
but no one knew until after...
after i...
[beat] you bled to death.
what?
i do not know how you got the cut to your head, but you died bleeding from it.
do you really believe me?
i do not know. [beat] i thought i was crazy after you left that day. i died. i still think i could be crazy. but then i replayed that night in my head -- the parts of it i could remember -- and it was like...i do not care if i was, or am. i have not felt that way in a room with someone my whole life. [beat] and when you left, all i wanted was...
[softly] i want to trust you. should i trust you?
yes.
then we need to figure out what happened to you. it is the only thing we can do.
i know.
alpine grove still exists. i looked it up on the net. we should go there and see if there is still anyone around who might have known what happened to you.
if they do not take me out before then. [as an afterthought] what is the net?
i did not kill officer harrison.
i know.
how? did they figure it out after i died?
no. they never figured it out. i did. most murderers do not stop to help a drunk woman and her little girl on the side of the road. not without hurting them.
I am sorry i can not tell you more about your father's death, mr. starks. our own medical examiners determined only that he died from a blunt trauma to the head but that was right around the time the alpine grove's staff changed and I am afraid we did not have the best record system before then.
his body was found on january 1, 1993, but do you know if that was long after he had died?
no, i don't. I am sorry. i wish i knew more.
what about dr. thomas becker or dr. loel lorenson? there was also a dr. gries, i think.
well, dr. lorenson is still here at the hospital. if she was here at the time your father was, then I am sure she would be of more help to you.
what about dr. becker and mr. gries?
unfortunately, I am not familiar with dr. becker and dr. gries passed away three, four years ago.
my god you look exactly like him.
i never knew my father. did you?
yeah, i did. [beat] he was my most memorable patient.
why?
at the end, he made me change my mind about a lot of things.
you thought my father was crazy?
what case?
i was working with a boy named eugene.
just a little, when we were looking up information about william's father. how did he help?
it is complicated, but [looking at starks] in a way, your father let me know how I would get through to him.
how?
he just said...that I would shock eugene and then things would change for him.
i do not understand.
i still do not either, even after all these years.
how did he get it?
[beat] i do not know.
but dr. morgan said you were around when my father was...
i was. but i saw a lot of cuts and a lot of blows. I am sorry i do not know more about your father's. [sincerely] i did not know about everything that went on here.
well, do you think dr. becker would have any idea?
how do you know about dr. becker?
my dad wrote some things down before he died.
so maybe dr. becker would know. [beat] but, as I am sure you know, the statute of limitations has run out for charging the hospital with any liabilities.
why would we do that?
because becker resigned after the charges brought against him by state patient advocacy groups.
i see you have done your homework. [beat] alpine grove's undergone a lot of changes since then. at the time, we did not have the...resources to help our patients the way we needed to. [beat] now, we do. and things are different.
it is important for you to know who your father was, is not it?
[beat] yeah, it is.
exactly.
well... [beat] let me know how your search turns out.
[beat] we will.
i do not believe a thing she just said.
me neither. who was the boy she was talking about, eugene?
i have no idea.
you think lorenson kills you?
maybe. i do not know. seems more likely becker does, but at the very least she knows how i died.
let's see if they have an address for becker. i also want to figure out more about the kid you helped her with.
why?
because that is the part i believe is true. you probably did help her somehow with the boy and eugene's name did come up over and over again on the abstracts i pulled.
do i know you from somewhere?
you may have known my father, william starks.
that is right! goddamn, you are the spitting image. i did not know he had a son.
he did not either.
did you know my father?
oh yeah, sure. he killed a cop, right?
my father used to talk about you.
oh yeah, what did he say?
look here, i do not like you getting in my face and saying this bullshit to me...
that is too bad.
i thought you said you never knew your father.
i didn't. [beat] did you have anything to do with his death?
i do not know what you are talking about, man. i swear. this is some weird shit you are telling me... and i do not know how come you are doing it.
he died because he bled to death from a blow to his head. someone had to have given him it.
i never touched your father! i swear!
how long do we have?
i do not know.
they told me becker's in shelbourne now. i looked him up and he was listed.
what about captain medley? he never told them what happened to you over there. his testimony...that coward wanted them to think you were crazy.
i know. it was perfect. [beat] erase my sanity and you erase anything I will ever say.
of course it makes me mad. it makes me more than mad. just like remembering the face of the man who killed that officer and knowing nothing more about him. but what is it going to do for me to find them now? i can not fix everything in three days.
you have got to get yourself out of that place. they are going to kill you if you don't.
i might not be able to.
it is not a prison, it is a hospital. there is got to be some way out of there and you have got to find it...
you will die if you keep smoking those in your condition.
I will die either way.
what do you mean?
you have no idea what is going on.
no, i do. that is what I am saying to you.
listen to me! you don't! the jacket is my only chance in this place.
you do not understand.
then help me understand. you know, you are not alone. a lot of gulf vets have begun to experience curious symptoms. what you have might well be a syndrome and, if so, it is not one we know enough about to be treating it this vigorously.
this has nothing to do with that.
i do not know. [frustrated] remember?
come on. tell me what you do know.
[beat] I have seen a time that is not this time. and I am only able to see it when I am in the jacket.
well, what time is it?
2004.
ok fine. tell me about it. tell me about the future. 2004. what does it look like?
it does not look all that different.
the future does not look different?
no. not for people like me. [beat] not in the places i come from.
what about the world?
i did not see that much of it -- same as now. i only saw it as part of my own life.
[beat] like who? like mackenzie maybe?
maybe.
why do not you help me?
because i do not have time.
why not?
I am about to die unless i do something to stop it.
and how do you know that?
because of the future. i know what is going to happen.
william, that is just another facet of my delusions.
how do you know about eugene?
you told me about him. i saw you and i think you thought i knew something about him. so you told me.
some part of you suspects -- even if you do not know for sure -- that what I am saying is true.
i do not know how you know about eugene, but these ideas are part of your delusions.
no! they are not my delusions! look, just leave my business with becker to me!
geez, how is that for a fucking "thank you"?
is it true?
mackenzie, [beat] what if we are crazy?
[shrugging] what if we are? there are crazier things than thinking up fictions for yourself. [beat] everyone does it, do not they? even becker. that roller coaster car pops more pills than all of ward 3.
becker does? are you sure?
I have been here for 11 years. it is my neighborhood. 'course I am sure. he is as drugged up as the rest of us...i guess he has to be to put up with all this.
hello, william. i understand you have been asking for me almost every hour. i would have been here sooner but you gave our little state visitor quite a bit to talk to me about.
that is too bad.
it is. but when it comes down to it, you just have to patient with them. they would rather have their vacation, too, so they just push dealing with our "practices" off to the new year.
they make it hard for you to get away with your business, huh?
temporarily.
and what is that?
my business?
yes.
getting away with things. like whatever i may or may not have gotten away with officer harrison.
you killed him?
I will say a prayer for you in church today, starks. maybe the gods can pick up where the medicine left off.
you sure you know where to find one?
I have managed to every sunday of my life. [beat] some of us are god- fearing men, starks.
and what does that mean?
means we believe in doing his work and fear what the world would be like if we did not at least try to.
becker, how do you sleep at night?
you in here. [beat] works like a drug.
me, too.
here, drink this. I will get the heat going.
you are sure?
yeah. i called the number yesterday to make sure. thomas becker, retired m.d.
they are not here.
they are not.
[beat, lost] no.
what? what are you thinking?
there are no cars on this street.
i do not know. maybe that is because this whole thing is a dream. how can you have a street with no cars on it?
i do not know. but this is not a dream. I am real, and so is where we are.
then why is not there anyone around?
[beat] i do not know.
of course he will. [beat] what day of the week is it?
it is sunday.
they have got lives to be grateful for.
william, you are not making sense.
[beat] they are at church. and i bet that is where becker is.
who are you?
i think you know. your eyes say you do.
[beat] you are his son?
no. I am not his son. I am him. [beat] what? you look like you have seen a ghost. you can come here and touch me, old man. I am the real thing.
how...how are you here?
you died, starks. years ago, in the hospital.
i know. [beat] you killed me, did not you?
no. i didn't. i swear i didn't. i probably helped push you to kill yourself, but i did not do it.
i did not kill myself. i died from a blow to the head. how did it happen? i have to know.
i do not know how you died. the last time i put you in the jacket was just after you told me you remembered killing that police officer...
i did not say i remembered killing him. i just repeated some words to get myself back in there.
i know. [beat] i knew that when you came out.
how?
because...because you came out and said something you could not have possibly have known. you came back and repeated three names...
of people like you. people i was just trying to help. they could not get worse so i thought, with medication, they might get...
medication? what kind of meds do you chase with nights in a cadaver drawer?
it was part of the treatment i intended...i did not know what the effects would be...
so, what, you guinea pig sick people to find out?
the three of you were not regular patients. you were criminals that ended up at alpine grove.
no, we were patients.
how did you come to know their names?
you just told me. the last time i was with you was when i was in the jacket. I am in it right now, dr. becker.
i do not understand...
I am in it as we speak. [beat] you are haunting yourself right now. [beat] i guess sometimes we indict ourselves if no one else does. you did not make history like you wanted to, huh, dr. becker. it turned out different, did not it?
i did not put you in alpine grove.
no. [beat] you put me on drugs and then you put me in the jacket.
that is all you got from him? that bastard helped take your life away from you.
no, he didn't.
what? how can you say that? he is the one that put you in that goddamn medieval...jacket. he is probably the one who killed you.
if everything had not happened the way it has, then i would not be here right now, sitting in a car with you, touching your face.
why are you saying that? [beat] we do not have long, do we?
where are we going?
to the hospital.
what is happening to me? why am i getting so much weaker?
because your body can only take so much of what they are putting you through.
lorenson's the only one that could let me out of there. i need something to persuade her that i was there. get me something to take to her.
ok. ssh. rest.
hey, mister, you need a ride?
where are you going?
I am going to canada but i can let you ride with me up to the border.
can you drive?
sure.
great, get in. we will switch off in a bit.
what?
when we first met, when you were 7, where was the house you lived in with your mother? do you remember your address?
112 orchard way. [realizing, in a whisper] you are not coming back, are you?
you gotta stop thinking like that.
then, where are you going?
nowhere. [beat] i just think I am going to be sick.
i know. i know it all. save your strength. i already know everything you are going to say. [beat] you are in the jacket right now, are not you?
how...how do you know?
you told me this was how it happened.
i did?
yeah.
who...who kills me?
you have nothing to fear, william.
you are going to be ok, william. we just need to get your fever down and we will be able to hopefully stabilize you.
who are you kidding, doc? you or me?
can i get some paper and something to write with.
what for?
I am not going to let that happen.
you still do not believe me, do you?
i do believe you...
no. listen to me...the kid, eugene...
william, i can not indulge these delusions, even when you are in this state.
listen to me. that is all i ask.
he is having absence [pronounced "absance"] seizures when he stares off into space like he does. he has them so often that that is why he has not learned to speak properly.
who told you this?
you did, in the future. you figured it out because a part of you already knows this. that is how it works. [beat] I am just telling you something you already know, even if you have not realized it.
i do not know when it will happen but soon i think, you will shock the boy and it will wake him up.
what are you talking about?
you will figure it out and you will do good by him.
this is really happening, is not it?
[beat] what do you need me to do?
[beat] thank you.
i need to get this letter to someone.
i can not take you out of here in your condition...
and i can not stay here in my condition. i am going to die tonight. it is already been decided.
no, it hasn't.
yes. [beat] it has. everything up 'till today is done. everything starting with tomorrow is up for grabs.
you know how to get there?
sure. it is an easy address. a little far out there, but easy enough.
good.
I have been ok.
good. how is your mom?
ok, i guess.
I am sorry? your face looks awfully familiar, i just can not quite place it...
mom, this is the guy that drove us home that afternoon we were stuck on the highway. the guy you yelled at for no good reason...
oh, yeah.
jackie, go play in the snow.
why?
just do it.
[beat] you be good to yourself, jackie.
ok.
i think so.
you are bleeding pretty bad there.
it is ok. it is ok. relax. it is just a cut. we can get it fixed. but we need to get you to the hospital now. how did you get that?
i fell down. [beat] but I am alive.
how you doin'?
I am doing fine.
