first pregnancy?
yes, for both.
i presume you would prefer handling the delivery.
all i said was, i do not want to perform abortions. i have no argument with *you* performing them.
you know *how* to help these women-- how can you not feel *obligated* to help them when they can not get help anywhere else?
one: it is illegal. two: i did not ask how to do it--you just showed me.
what *else* could i have showed you, homer? the only thing i can teach you is what i know! in every life, you have got to be of use.
only if you can afford it.
try to think of nothing, dorothy.
there was no visible wound?
no. the fetus was dead. her uterus was virtually *disintegrating*--my stitches pulled right through the tissue!
it looks like scurvy.
scurvy! ah yes, the curse of the old- time sailor, suffering long periods at sea with no fresh fruits or vegetables. homer, dorothy is not a *sailor*!
it is not ergot, it is not pituitary extract, it is not oil of rue...
it claims to restore monthly regularity.
it is obviously an aborticide.
obviously.
christ, it is oil of tansy!
i do not know it.
if you take enough of it, your intestines lose their ability to absorb vitamin c.
in other words, scurvy.
good boy. good job. and you call yourself "not a doctor"!  keep an eye on her--she's in trouble.
he *sniffs* that ether! I have seen him do it!
it is because he is too tired to sleep. he has to.
he *smells* like he could put you to sleep!
he is a doctor, buster--doctors smell like ether.
*you're* a doctor, homer--you do not smell like ether.
I am *not* a doctor. i have not been to medical school--i have not even been to high school!
but you have studied with the old man for *years*!
I am *not* a doctor!
I am sorry, homer.
fuzzy is not uncommon. i tell you, there is something about the premature babies of alcoholic mothers. they seem susceptible to every damn thing that comes along.
i have not read that.
i haven't, either. but you *will*. the morons who write the books should do a little research *here*.
but is not fuzzy just... well, underdeveloped?
when *doesn't* he have bronchitis? i would not call his bronchial infections "underdeveloped." would you?
did you bite it?
i do not remember.
it looks like you bit it--it'll be all right.
maybe i was kissing someone and he bit me.
no, you did it yourself. maybe in your sleep.
i must have been *dreaming* of kissing someone.
wilbur, the adopting couple is waiting in your office.
life is waiting.
where is the name sheet?
nobody's named this one yet.
it is my turn!
he does not like it.  he is a boy, that is why.
can not a boy be a dorrit?
i do not think so.
you do it then.
henceforth you shall be... little wilbur.
I am not crazy about the "little..."
okay, he is just a wilbur then.
we have not had a wilbur here in a year or so, have we? we used to have *dozens*!
i thought they might take me.
they wanted a girl.
nobody ever wants me!
you are one of the best, curly--we could not let just anyone take you.
dr. larch would not let just anyone take *any* of us!
that is true.
nobody's asked for me, have they?
nobody special enough, curly.
you mean somebody asked?
only the right people can have you, curly.
i was dreaming about you. how beautiful you were!
you were not dreaming about me.
i was!
then i was not beautiful.
you were! you *are*! it was fantastic.
it was just the ether, wilbur...
i mean your parents.
i know who you mean. i think about leaving here, but not to find *them*.
why not?
whoever they were, they did not *do* any of the things parents are supposed to do. dr. larch did those things, and nurse edna, and nurse angela.
yeah. but sometimes i wish i could meet mine, anyway.
what for, buster? what would you do if you met them?
uh... I would like to show them that i can cook, a little.
you cook very well!
and that i can drive a truck!
better than i can!
sometimes i want to meet them so i can kill them. just sometimes.
homer, you know i would never kill anyone--you know i wouldn't.
i know.
i think mary agnes could kill someone.
i doubt it. she is just an...
what is she so emotional about?
i do not know. she got left here, like the rest of us, did not she?
they want to replace me! the board of trustees wants to *replace* me!
they just want you to hire some new help.
some new *things* would be useful. i do not need any "new help."
i thought you took care of this. it always breaks in the same place. it is your splice, is not it?
it is *your* splice! you blame me for everything!
homer... does not king kong think the woman is his *mother*?
uh, sure--that's what kong thinks, all right.
that is why kong loves her!
i thought it was my turn.
it is. I will get this. you go ahead.
"i was a posthumous child. my father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months, when mine opened on it."
his father's dead, right?
is *your* father dead?
cirrhosis--it's a disease of the liver.
*liver* killed him?
*alcohol* killed him--he drank himself to death.
but did you know him?
barely. it hardly mattered that i knew him.
did you know your mother better?
she is dead now, too. she was a nanny.
what is a nanny do?
she looks after other people's children.
did you grow up around here?
no. she was an immigrant.
what is an immigrant?
someone not from maine.
her temperature is a hundred and four.
how old are you, dear? thirteen?
that is a heavy sedation.
you *bet* it is a heavy sedation! the fetus is unexpelled, her uterus is punctured, she has acute peritonitis, and there is a foreign object. i think it is a crochet hook.
what did she die of?
she died of *secrecy*, she died of *ignorance*...
how about expecting people to be responsible enough to control themselves to begin with?
how about this child? you expect *her* to be responsible?
it is just a marvel to me that you still have such high expectations of people.
I am happy i amuse you.
try to look at it this way. what choice does buster have? what are his options? nobody will ever adopt him.
try to look at it *this* way. buster and i are sitting right here beside you. we could have ended up in the incinerator!
happy to be alive, under any circumstances--is that your point?
so many children. are they all orphans?
well, this *is* an orphanage.
I am sorry. they are not used to seeing a car like this.
it is okay--i do not mind.
so, mrs...
candy. candy kendall.
how many months are you?
two.
so, now, uh... you are not... i mean, do *you* do the--
no. dr. larch will be performing the procedure.
ah, well... okay. good! i just wondered...
what kind of plane are you flying?
a b-24 liberator.
liberator...
have you enlisted?
they would not take me. I am class iv-- I have got a heart defect.
really! is it serious?
no, it is not serious. I am just not supposed to get excited. you know-- no strain, no stress. i try to keep calm all the time.
uh... it is the end of october.
is that soon?
do not get too excited, fuzzy.
why can not we have pumpkins for christmas, too? we do not get any good presents at christmas, anyway.
has anyone offered you anything to eat?
actually, someone did. i just did not think i could eat anything.
i wonder if you might give me a ride.
sure! be glad to! uh... a ride where?
where are you going?
we are heading back to cape kenneth.
doubtless you will let me know what immensely worthwhile or at least *useful* thing it is that you find to do.
i was not intending to leave here in order to be entirely useless--i expect I will find some ways to be of use.
in other parts of the world, i suppose there are other ways.
of course.
are you really so *stupid* that you imagine you are going to find a more gratifying life? what you are going to find is people like the poor people who get left here--only nobody takes care of them as well! and you will not be able to take care of them, either. there is no taking care of *anybody*-- not out there!
you know I am grateful for everything you have done for me...
i do not need your gratitude.
i do not need this--i know all about my condition.
it is your heart--you ought to take it with you.
i do not know! he is just leaving--  you are the one who says he needs to see the world!  *that's* what he will do--he'll see the world!
he is leaving...
he will need clothes... some money...
let him try to *make* some money! that is part of "seeing the world," is not it?
oh, just stop it! you knew this was going to happen. he is a young man.
he is still a boy--out in the world, he is still a boy.
just find him some clothes, wilbur. he could use some clothes.
I am okay--i can walk.
i do not want you to walk--i want to carry you. should i put the top up? it might get cold.
no--keep it down. i want to feel the air.
wally thinks apples are boring.
i never said they were boring.
you said, "apples are not exactly flying."
well, they aren't.
i think I would probably like the apple business.
you are a little overqualified, are not you?
no, I am not. i need a job.
the only jobs are picking jobs. picking apples is truly boring.
there! you said it was boring.
well, *picking* them is! it is about as exciting as... walking!
is your family in the apple business, too?
no, but i work there--i like it. my dad's a lobsterman.
I have never seen a lobster.
really?
I have never seen the ocean, either.
i know.
he is going to be dropping bombs on mandalay! they are going to be shooting at him!
where is mandalay?
burma!
oh...
i can not have a baby alone. i do not even know if he is coming back!
i understand.
this is all normal. do not worry. the abortion procedure... it affects you. it is the ether, too. it will take a little time.
i do not *have* any time. there is a *war*!
it is all very normal.
I am a little worried about the...  ...about how much bleeding is okay.
it should taper off tomorrow, but it can come back again. you have cramps?  they will ease up, almost entirely. as long as the bleeding is not heavy, it is normal.
"burma run" because you fly over burma...
*and* over the himalayas. that is called flying over the hump.
at what altitude?
I have got thirty-five minutes to climb to fifteen thousand feet--that's the first mountain pass.
what lousy luck--i mean your orders... to draw an assignment like that!
actually, i volunteered.
uh, look... if you are serious about wanting a job, picking apples is not that boring.
oh, i would love that, wally.
i guess I will see you around the orchards. thanks for everything.
sure... I will see you around.
i love you, wally.
i love you, too. see you tomorrow.
they are migrants.
migrants?
yes. they pick fruit, all kinds. they travel up and down the coast with the seasons.  the trick to mr. rose is, you have to let him be the boss.
rose rose?
pretty, am not it? you a plumber?
so. what should i do now?
out back, there is a shed. it is just a mess. if that shed was better organized, i could put my truck in there.
what is that?
it is just my heart.
what you got a picture of your heart for?
there is a little something wrong with it. just this part here--the right ventricle. it is slightly enlarged.
so what?
yes, so what. it is nothing serious, really. just a small defect.
it is big enough to keep you out of the war, i suppose. am not that right?
right.
they told me i was too old to serve.
they told muddy his feet was too flat!
do you like to read?
i can not read. nobody taught me.
stop it, homer. they are not our rules. we did not write them. i do not see no reason to read them.
okay...
it is almost like flying.
what about the trees?
the trees are flak--antiaircraft fire from those geeks on the ground.
i was just showing homer the orchards... kind of a geography lesson.
i know what you have been doing.
you have been giving him a *flying* lesson!
he *loved* it!  did not you?
he thinks people *like* to get whacked by branches.
*homer* liked it!  did not you?
uh... I am shipping out sooner than i thought. i just wanted to be sure you were settled in--and happy enough, considering...  are you bored stiff? or can you stick it out for a bit?
uh... actually, picking apples is as much excitement as i want for a while. I am grateful for the job.
you are the one who is helping *me*, homer. you are going to give my mom a little peace of mind while I am gone. candy, too.
well, sure... that is good, then.  all i mean is, I am lucky i met you.
i do not think so, homer. *i'm* the lucky one.
that is better. i can tell you got yourself some education. them's good hands you got, homer. them hands you got, they know what they are doin'-- am not that right?
i guess so...
he is a goddamn psychiatrist--of *course* he wants to "help"! he would be happy if he could help *commit* me!
it is that mrs. goodhall you have to be careful of, wilbur.
one has to be more than "careful" of mrs. goodhall--she has sufficient christian zeal to start her own country! I would like to give her a little ether.
"homer wells, born portland, maine, march 2, 1915..."
homer was born *here*, in, what was it, 1922?
"...graduated bowdoin college, 1935, and harvard school of medicine, 1939."
this is *your* life story, wilbur! you just changed the dates!
"an internship and two years of training at the boston lying-in, south end branch. for his age, he was judged an accomplished gynecological obstetrical surgeon; he is also experienced in pediatric care..."
you *invented* him! you have completely made his up!
do not you understand? the board is going to *replace* me! that is what the "new blood" is *for*!
you mean they will replace you with someone who will not perform abortions.
well, we can only guess about that, edna. they *are* against the law.
these *credentials* are against the law!
we all know who trained homer--his credentials are as good as mine are. do not you be holy to me about the *law*! what has the law done for any of us here?
so here is my candidate. what do you think?
but what about school records? homer does not have any *diplomas*...
who cares?
now, now. he is a good boy.
shit. we do not know what he is.
jack, you got to watch your language 'round my daughter.
where is your manners? make room for homer, so's he can enjoy the view.
what view?
are we supposed to be up here? the rules said...
homer, you the only one who is read them rules, so you the only one who feels like he is doin' somethin' wrong.
*what* view?
well, muddy, we can look at all these angry stars homer's been readin' to us about.
i bet the view looks better from the worthin'tons'.
you think so, jack? well... i would not want to be in that wally's shoes tonight.
daddy, I would like to be in that wally's shoes *every* night.
you lucky you in your work boots tonight, girl...
what is lucky about that?
so. not bored yet?
I am *never* bored! it is all very... different for me... here.
uh... have you been *feeling* okay?
when I am not thinking about wally. I am not good at being alone.  oh, goodness. you meant... yes, I am fine. i...  ...i do not suppose you have seen a lobster yet.
you have to come to my dad's lobster pound and see one, then.
okay...
i better go.
i do not think mr. rose would leave without you.
do not let us make you nervous or nothin'--we know you got to job to do.
yeah, we can wait all night for the water to come back on--you just go on and take your time.
it is time somebody ate *them*.
i was lookin' for wally's letter. i was going to show it to homer...  they made him a captain already-- *captain* worthington!
daddy, it is a letter to *me*.
he mentions homer, too, you know.
wally said to say, "hello."
a movie *outside*?
yes. but it is closed all the time now, because of the blackout.
people watched the movies in their cars?
when they watched at all. do you like movies?
yes! I have only seen one, though.
you have seen only one movie? which one?
"king kong". it is really good.
oh my, yes! this is a *far* superior taste--and crisp, too! you know, so many apples are disappointingly mealy. i wonder of most of the apples in my life were not meant for pies!
wilbur, he picked them for us himself...
you do not find it depressing that homer wells is picking apples?
or that he can not be bothered to write us a proper letter? a dissertation on apples, we do not need!
he probably does not make much money picking apples--he must have had to pay to send them, too.
i would not worry, edna, that he does not have money. if he gets hungry, he can pick his dinner!
but you looked as if you liked it.
i *did* like it. all i said was, "it's not 'king kong'."
first she loved him, then she didn't, then no one else could have him...
she *did* love him!  how many women have you known?
and what did she die of, exactly?
she was torn apart! she died of a broken heart.
oh, sure!
what is the *medical* explanation?
well, she was in a weakened condition...  i do not know! what about "king kong"?! is that medically possible?
you am not gettin' in no trouble, i hope.
no trouble.
that candy--she's the nicest girl i know!
she is about the most beautiful girl i ever seen--i do not know if she is the nicest.
that sounds like you is in trouble already, homer.
that is right--that sounds like trouble to me.
I am not in trouble.
yeah, you is. i know when people is in trouble, and you is.
do you know him?
*no*! i do not want to know him! he is doing *missionary* work--in *india*! i wrote him *weeks* ago, but he is either too holy or too busy to answer. maybe he got killed in the war!
i fail to see how someone courageous enough to make a commitment to a foreign mission is automatically to be dismissed--that part of the world requires precisely the kind of dedication that is needed here.
does it *snow* in bombay? one winter here and we will be shipping him south, in a *coffin*!
you can not think that a man who has *served* under such conditions as exist over there will be in the slightest daunted by a little *snow*-- have you no idea how harsh and primitive and full of *disease* that part of the world is?
then i suppose we can look forward to catching various diseases from him!
i fail to see how a little christianity could *hurt* anyone here!
anyway, i was just showing you this guy as an example of what is available-- i did not think you would be interested.
i suppose it would not hurt to *meet* him. what is his name again?
dr. homer wells.
i just hope he will not expect us to say *grace* all the time.
i just wanted to ask you...
edna! come dance with me! let's be foolish tonight.
does he *know* he is supposed to be in india? does he even *want* to come back?
cider do not have no taste till later in october--it's too watery now, when we are usin' just them early macs and them gravensteins. you do not get no *good* cider till you are pickin' them golden delicious and them winter bananas, them baldwins and them russerts...
what about the worms? most of these apples are the drops--off the ground, right? there have to be worms.
of *course* there is worms, homer! and what is them worms, really? they just *protein*, them worms! they is *good* for you!
that just am not right, jack--your cigarette's going to end up in nine or ten gallons of this batch of cider! that am not right.
them people drinkin' that cider, they do not know there is a cigarette in there!
it is not that hard to find it in there, jack--it'll take you just a minute. you just got to go fishin'.
you mean *swimmin'*. i am not goin' in that vat to fish out no cigarette!
what business is you in, jack? just tell me what your business is...
you are lucky he did not cut your *nipples* off, man.
the good news, jack, is you are half- undressed for *swimmin'*...
yeah, that cigarette am not hard to find when you are properly undressed.
give men that. i know how to do it.
oh, i suppose you is a doctor, homer?
almost.
we should drown that damn jack in the vat!
now, now, darlin'... jack just needs to know what business he is in.
yeah, you really showed him, daddy-- you just about cut your own hand off, and all you cut off *him* was his clothes!
you oughta know you do not go to jail for cuttin' a guy's *clothes*. am not that right, homer?
you are a natural. you were born to drive a car like this.
you think? maybe i was.  i love this place!
the screen is enormous! imagine king kong up *there*! have you seen a lot of movies here?
yes... and no. when you come here, you do not really care about the movie.
what are you so crazy about the movies for?
it was my favorite night at the orphanage--movie night. we would race into the dining hall. of course everyone wanted to sit in front, so we would be packed in so tight you could feel the kid next to you breathing.
at least you were never lonely.
i did not say that. growing up in an orphanage, you are always lonely. you are just never alone.
you do not miss it?
i miss things. i miss... people.  i miss reading to the boys.
but you had so much *responsibility*.
i never *asked* for any responsibility.
just a little privacy.
privacy is exactly the point of drive- in movies.
did you come here with wally--to *not* watch movies?
sometimes... movies mostly bore wally.
ah-ha.  so what is that--a radio?
the *speaker*. for the movie sound.
how could you not *care* about the movie?
you just cuddle. you come to hug... to kiss. you do not *come* here to watch the movie.
that is what *i'd* come here for. I would watch the movie.
not with the right girl you wouldn't.
what are you going to tell the little ones?
I will tell them fuzzy was adopted.
why would the little ones believe that *anyone* would adopt him?
they will believe it because they want to believe it.
should not we tell homer?
if homer wanted to know what was happening here, he could pick up a telephone and call us.
am not you going to see what it is, homer?
mind your own business, peaches.
sorry, homer...
are not you worried that people will cut their feet?
nobody will swim here until next summer. by then, the water will have rubbed the glass smooth against the sand--there will not be any sharp edges.
i *know* this was right.
right.
slow down, homer--don't be in such a big hurry.
this is easy--i'm not hurrying.
you still doin' it too fast!
just tell me. do you want me to go? do you want me to stay?
it will be okay.
*what* will be okay?
we have to wait and see. i think that, for *everything* in life, you have to wait and see.
it is gettin' late. i think I will pack it in.
good night, daddy.
what i mean is... i would like it very much if you thought you could be happy here, homer.
mrs. worthington, i feel I am very lucky to be here.
there is not a lot of work in the winter, and you will have to tolerate vernon--even wally despises him, and wally likes everyone.
i think wally will be fine, mrs. worthington--he seems indestructible to me.
i do not know.  just promise me one thing.
uh... sure.
just promise me that, if there is a blizzard, you will move into wally's room until it is over.
good-bye, arthur.  homer, I will see you tomorrow?
right.
you all take care of yourself, too, homer!
we see you next harvest.
now, now, jack--that just am not right.
you just stay out of trouble, homer!
olive told me.  you might have told me yourself.
I am just waiting and seeing. like you said.
i am not a doctor.
you know everything i know, plus what you have taught yourself--you're a better doctor then i am and you know it!
do not this place look like home?
it look nicer then home!
what have you two been doin' to make it look so nice?
how is that wally doing?
oh, he is fine! i just heard from him. he is bombing all these places...
you pickin' nothin' but cider apples, peaches--i hope you understand that.
they am not drops--i picked 'em off the tree!
then you pickin' 'em too fast--they am not no better than drops to me. see that bruise, and that one? *half* of these is bruised! look at this one! it am not got no stem! you might as well *step* on 'em, too--they only good for cider.
do you think I am having a good time? do you think I am just *teasing* you? do you think i *know* whether i want you or wally?
so we should "wait and see." for how long?
i grew up with wally. i began my adult life with him.
fine. that is all there is to it then.
no! that is not all there is to it! i love you, too--i *know* i do.
okay, okay--i know you do, too.
it is a good thing i did not have that baby, is not it?
you okay, rose?
i guess you must like watchin' me be sick...
i do not like watching anyone be sick.
you are not yet three months, are you?
not yet. what do you know about it?
i know more than i want to know about it. who is the father?
do not trouble yourself about it, homer--this am not your business.
but you do not look very happy.
*happy*! what are you thinkin'? how am i supposed to take care of a baby! i can not have a baby.
rose, please listen. whatever you want to do, i can help you.
what i mean is, if you do not want to... keep the baby, i know a place where you can go.
you think daddy's going to let me go anywhere? i am not going *nowhere*.
why do not you just go back to your pickin', homer? i can take care of it myself!
rose, listen--don't *do* anything. you know, i mean to yourself. please listen...
we should take her to st. cloud's. that much is obvious, is not it? let her make up her mind when she gets there...
i told her! she does not feel she can do that. something about her father not letting her go anywhere...
well, we have to help her!
hi...
hi...
I have got some more clothes for you-- i just keep forgetting to bring them with me.
i do not need no more clothes, thank you.
rose, i know what is going on. homer told me. i got pregnant, too--about a year ago.  I have been through this.
you am not been through what i been through, candy.
yes, i *have*!
i know where you can go. homer and i can take you...
i can not go nowhere.
why?
you can trust me. is it jack? it is not jack, is it? it is *muddy*! is it muddy?
no. it am not muddy. muddy's just...
she will not go to st. cloud's!
well, we can not force her. it is her decision.
you do not understand! it is her father...
mr. rose *knows*?
he is the *father*! he is her baby's father!
wait... *wait*! are you sure?
we have got to keep her away from that bastard!
i did not see where you was pickin' this mornin', homer, but you musta worked up a big appetite. you look like you are serious about gettin' to your lunch today!
is it true?
i think you been stayin' up too late at night, homer.
you are actually having sex with your own little girl? is that possible?
am not nobody havin' *sex* with my little girl, homer--that's somethin' a father knows.
you are lying. how can you... with your own daughter!
homer, do not you know what business you in? you do not wanna go into no business with me, homer--ain't that right?
go on, cut my clothes. I have got other clothes.
but she is your *daughter*...
and i *love* her! there am not nobody else going to treat her as good as i do!  i would not do nothin' to hurt her, homer--you must know that.
do not mess in this, homer, if you know what is good for you.
how long's this been going on, muddy?
long enough. you am not going to stop it.
when the plane was hit, the crew chief and the radioman jumped close together. the copilot jumped third. all on captain worthington's orders-- the captain was still flying the plane. none of the men of the ground could see the sky--that's how thick the jungle was. they never saw the plane crash--they never *heard* it crash. they never saw captain worthington's parachute, either.
why was he missing for twenty days?
because the crew thought he would gone down with the plane. they were hospitalized for almost a week in china before they were flown back to india. it was not until that they sorted through their gear...
then it is malaria?
it is encephalitis b. he is recovering at mount lavinia hospital, ceylon.  uh... captain worthington is paralyzed.  waist down. he will not walk.
no autonomic effects... that is correct.
when will he be home, major?
four weeks or so, right around halloween.
how about him not needin' the friggin' compass! how about that?
daddy, *please*...
good night, kids. do not catch cold-- it is gettin' cold already.
good night, daddy.
just tell me. I will do whatever you want to do.
nothing.
is not that like waiting and seeing?
no. nothing is nothing. i want wally to come home. I am afraid to see him, too.
i know.  is *that* nothing.
no, don't--that's something. nothing is nothing.  do not even look at me. i want...
please do not move, do not go anywhere.
*go* anywhere? of course not! that would be *doing* something, would not it? we would not want to *do* something. let's just sit here all night!
if you are trying to be funny, homer...
I am not trying to be anything--i'm just doing nothing! if i wait and see long enough, then--with any luck-- i will not *ever* have to make up my mind! decisions can be painful, after all...
stop it! just cut it out!
you got up! you *did* something! if you keep this up, you might be in danger of making a *decision*!
for god's sake, homer, wally's been shot down!
i know, I am sorry.
he is *paralyzed*!
he is *alive*. he still loves you.  so do i.
what do you want me to *do*?
where do you think you are going?
you gotta let me go, daddy. please...
you am not goin' nowhere in the middle of the night, girl!
i am not your business no more, daddy. please let me go.
you just go inside, homer. we do not need no help.
that is right, homer. this am not your business.
please listen to me! *both* of you...
you forget yourself, homer. this here's my daughter! you got your own mess to deal with--ain't that right?
what business is you in, homer?
mr. rose, I am in the *doctor* business.  if you want, i can help you. you do not have to go anywhere.
what is that? what is it called?
one cervical stabilizer, two sets of dilators--douglas points. one medium- sized curette, one small; one medium speculum, one large; two vulsellum forceps.
there am not no *almost* about this stuff, homer--ain't that right?
merthiolate, ether, vulval pads, gauze--lots of gauze.
when it comes to this, you is the real thing--is that what you sayin'?
I am stayin', homer.
okay. then you can be of use.
it is that vernon--he keeps askin' where you and homer and rose rose is at.
tell that vernon to mind his own business, muddy.
i told him that you all is sick.
tell him what you want, muddy--*you* is the crew boss today.
"one: please do not smoke in bed."
we heard that one already, homer.
"two: please do not go up to the roof to eat your lunch."
that is *it*?
that is it.
it means nothin' at all! and all this time i been *wonderin'* about it!
they are *outrageous*, them rules!
who *live* here in this cider house, peaches? who grind them apples, who press that cider, who clean up the mess, and who just plain *live* here... just breathin' in the vinegar?  somebody who *don't* live here made them rules. them rules am not for *us*. *we* the ones who make up them rules. we makin' our *own* rules, every day. am not that right, homer?
please do not make me say it again.
no, that is not it--i just want to be sure i understand you.
i *helped* you not to think about wally. you were so upset--you could not stand worrying about him, about his being killed and not coming back-- but when you were with me, you could stop worrying... well, for a while, anyway. this is how i helped you, right?
please... that is enough. i *loved* you, too--you know i did.
"...did." well, okay.
please don't...
and now that wally's coming back, and because he will certainly *need* you...
you say that as though it is some awful thing!  i never stopped loving wally!
rose rose has runned away!
she took off in the night!
she took off on the bicycle, man.
if that was your knife, muddy, i wanna thank you for givin' it to her-- no girl should be goin' *hitch-hikin'* if she do not got a good knife with her.
where did she get you?
she just plan misunderstand me--i was tryin' to give her my knife, i was just reachin' to touch her hand. but i understand if she misunderstand me--it's all my fault, am not that right?
she is *good* with that knife! she is real fast. she is a lot better with that knife than *you* is, muddy! and who do you suppose taught her?
*you* taught her, i suppose...
that is right! a girl's got to know how to defend herself, do not she?
there is more than one laceration, more than one cut.
that is 'cause i sticked my *own* knife in the wound--after she go, i sticked my *own* knife in there. i poked it all around, i just tryin' to find the same place she got me.
let me hear you say that! i so unhappy she runned away that i killed myself-- that what happen here, am not that right?
right?
that what happen--you lost you only daughter so's you killed yourself! that is what we say, all right.
that is right. i know you understand how i feel, homer--you is breakin' them rules, too. am not that right?
do you think she will be all right?
she knows how to take care of herself.
this came for you a couple of days ago. olive asked me to bring it. with everything happening, i guess she forgot.
sure. thanks.
i know you do not think much of being needed, or of me for that matter...
I am sorry for what i said about wally needing you. it was... unnecessary.
no, I am the one who should be sorry. you have every right to be angry.
no. you warned me. i did not listen, but you warned me.
you ever see a palm tree, homer?
he am not never been outta maine!
thanks, guys... I would like to go with you. but I have got to move on.
yeah, well... you could move on with *us*, man! you could move on somewhere *warm*!
