your sister - - have you heard from her lately?
no, mrs. lowood, she does not write often.
have you any other relatives, mary?
that makes it all the more difficult
difficult? has anything happened to jacqueline?
we do not know, mary. we have been unable to get in touch with your sister.
sometimes she can be quite careless. why do not you try mrs. redi?
i have written repeatedly to mrs. redi. she vouchsafes no information whatsoever.  it is six months since your tuition has been paid, mary. naturally, it is impossible for you to stay on here as a paying pupil.
of course.
but, mrs. lowood, i can not just stay here not knowing what is happened to my sister. maybe if i went to new york -- if i saw mrs. redi myself --
i doubt if you will get anything out of that woman. but if  you would like to try, I will advance you the money to make the trip to new york. of course, my dear, if you do not find your sister, you can always come back here.
but you must know someone who has seen or heard of my sister.
I am afraid not.
mrs. redi, there is one thing -with jacqueline gone, how do you carry on the business? what do you do with the receipts? how do you sign checks--?
mary, I am amazed. did not jacqueline tell you? she sold the business to me at least eight months ago. it is my business now.
i did not know.
yes  and i must say I have done very well with it -- perhaps even better than jacqueline.
there is nothing you can think of -- old letters, anything, that might give me some hint as to where i might find jacqueline?
leave me your address, and if i find anything, I will get in touch with you.
I am stopping at the chatsworth.
thank you, my dear.
why, mary --
hello, frances.
how is miss jacqueline?
i do not know. that is why i came to see mrs. redi. I am trying to find her.
you mean miss jacqueline's gone, and you do not know where she is?
i do not get this. miss jacqueline was always so fond of you -- she was always talking about you - had your picture in her office.
i know. for the first time I am beginning to be frightened. i almost feel as if I would never known my sister.
nothing's happened to her. it is just that i can not understand her not getting in touch with you.
i can not understand it at all.
well, do not worry. i saw miss jacqueline only a week ago. i saw her at a little restaurant the boy friend took me to -- an italian place down in the village -	"the dante."
"the dante?"
it is on peary street. just ask the people who run it. they will remember her.  people who see miss jacqueline never forget her.
I will try there.
I am worry to bother you. i want to ask you about my sister.
yes?
i thought you might know her. she was seen here about a week ago. her name is jacqueline gibson.
i do not know no gibson. this is a restaurant. many people come here.
she is very beautiful.
once you would seen my sister you would never forget her.
giacomo -- la bellisslina madonna -
yes  yes, if she made that much impression on you, I am sure it was jacqueline.
she is not been here for a long time.
but she was here?
oh yes, yes. one day a beautiful car comes here. this beautiful lady in furs gets out. there is a handsome man with her, and the chauffeur  the lady rents one of our upstairs rooms. the chauffeur changes the lock on the door. then the lady never comes back --not to live, anyhow. she came back three, four times, but always alone and just to eat.
you mean she just came here, rented the room, locked it, and left?
yes -- and pays the rent every month.
could you let me see that room? if it is hers, there might be something there to help me find my sister.
no -- the rent in paid. the lady asked us to promise, i would not open the door.
please.
fo come ti pare. to desiderare sempre di vedere che cosa c'era in quella stanza.
what did he say?
were you going to make a suggestion?
yes. i was going to tell you to look into your own heart -- do you really want to find your sister?
ah, my jason -- always laughing -- always trying to help others.  he is a good boy, miss -- he just talks that way.
I am a good boy, but no one listens to what i say.
the name may not mean anything to you, young lady, but say the word and I will have your sister for you in forty-eight hours.
you can?
look, sister', manhattan is only nine miles long and four and one half miles wide. i am not never been off it. i know it like you know your own back yard. you get me a small retainer --say fifty bucks, and I will get your sister for you. i guarantee
i have not any money but I will get a job and --
you know who i am, august?
sure i do.
then you know that if i give you a little advice, it will be good advice.
yeah - sure.
that girl was looking for jacqueline gibson. I would forget it if i were you.
okay, mr. radeau, it is forgot.
we are not exactly strangers, mary. jacqueline spoke about you often. i suppose she told you about me,
no...at the morgue they told me a mr. gregory ward had made inquiries about jacqueline.
the morgue? no wonder you fainted.  i wish you had come to me first.
then you know where jacqueline is?
but I would give a great deal to know.
why?
i love your sister, mary. i love her very much.
a man would look anywhere for her, mary. there is something exciting and unforgettable about her - something you never get hold of - something that keeps a man following after her.
because i loved jacqueline i thought i knew her. today i found out such strange things frightening things. i saw a hangman's noose that she had hanging - waiting  i feel as if I would never known her.
at least i can explain that, mary. your sister had a feeling about life  that it was not worth living unless one could end it. i helped her get that room.
were not you afraid?
afraid she might commit suicide?  people who commit suicide do not talk about it. that room made her happy in some strange way i could not understand. she lived in a world of her own fancy. she did not always tell the truth. in fact - I am afraid she did not know what the truth was.  there were many things about jacqueline i did not understand, and yet, without understanding, i had to be with her  to see her  to touch her  in order to be happy. it is hard to explain to a youngster.
I am not a youngster. i can understand.
thank you. it was a lovely dinner.
good.
but i reel guilty. it does not seem right for me to enjoy myself with jacqueline gone.
you can not make it your life's work looking for jacqueline.  ) you will have to do other things... live...get some enjoyment out of life. i hope you will let me help you.
thank you.. .goodnight.
goodnight, mary.
I have been waitin' for you miss gibson. i want you to know I have decided to take your case.
mr. august, I am not at all sure -
look. do not say a word. I have taken an interest in you and I am willin' to put up my time to help you. besides, i think i know where to find your sister.
where?
wait a minute. this has got a lot of angles. you have got to take it easy. do you know a mrs. redi?
yes. she bought my sister's business.
that is what she told you. i looked it up at the hall of records. your sister deeded her the business as an outright girt.
why would mrs. redi lie to me?
that is what i tried to find out.	i went to la jeunesse   -- used a phony health inspector's badge  they let me go through the works -- all but one room. that room was locked. I would like to see the inside of that room.
you think my sister is there?
you can not tell.
can we go there now?
sister, you can not just go breaking into places. there is a night watchman down there and locks on the door.
if my sister's in that room, it will not make any difference about warrants- and things, i want to go there.
i do not know if i want to go with you or not.
i do not like this.
which room is it?
it is the last door at the end of this hall.
you scared?
yes.
let's get out of here.
no.
it is only a little way, mr. august.
I would like to get out of here.
no.
we can not stand here all night.
you could go and open the door.
listen
this is about another murder  a woman at fifty second street
but you do believe me?
the important thing is, the police will not believe you.
i saw him on the floor. he was cut -  --here. the blood was running out. he was dead. I am sure of it. then on the subway i saw him  white  and the men holding him up between them.
yes, of course  but the police would say you would probably had a bad dream.
he was a kind little man in his way  and i made him go down that hall into the darkness. i made him do it.
drink your milk.
I am sorry. i did not intend to treat you like a child.
but you have treated me that way.
i will not do it again. we are friends. I will never order you about again.
however, i will not say that I will not take charge occasionally, and I am going to take charge new. I have a job for you.
a job?
you told me you were pretty good with youngsters. today i bumped into an old friend of mine, mrs. wheeler  she runs a settlement house down in the village and is looking for a kindergarten teacher.
I would like that.
it is not much money, but it is enough to live on. you would have to move out of that hotel and into a furnished room.
maybe the romaris might have a room. they seem nice.
the people at the restaurant?
yes.
mr. ward will see you in just a few minutes. will not you wait, dr. judd?
thank you.
are you dr. louis judd?
yes.
i read your book. the one in which you wrote about the cure for drinking.
you are not a dipsomaniac at your age?
no. it is my father -- i wanted to talk to you -- you wrote about cures --
I have come from jacqueline. she needs money.
i thought you told me you did not know where she was.
i didn't. she came to me a few days ago. to put it delicately her care imposes a financial burden upon me. she thought you might lighten that burden.
if jacqueline wants money she can come to me herself.
I am afraid she can not do that, ward. it would endanger her.
what sort of danger?
you are a curious man. you are willing to jeopardize jacqueline's life in order to satisfy your own curiosity.
you come to me with some wild story about her being in danger - naturally i want to know what kind of danger. i want to know where she is.
it is not just for myself I am asking. her sister is here. the kid's half crazy with anxiety.
as a man, you distrust me - perhaps you believe me as a physician.
well, then i can tell you that in addition to other dangers, there is a grave danger of jacqueline losing her sanity. i would advise against you seeing her.
but why? she is been ill --erratic, but I have never heard of anything like that!
how much does she want?
she could use a hundred dollars.
I will give you a check.
she can only use cash.
i have not got that much in cash.
how much have you got?
about forty-five dollars.
for the time being, i imagine that must do.
tell me, how is jacqueline?
oh, as beautiful as ever.
but tell me --
she is nervous, naturally, under the circumstances.
what circumstances?
what brought you down here, greg?
oh, i had business with a man... but i missed him -
well, I am glad you came to see me.
miss gibson, I am tired of resting.
sh-h-h nancy. the other children.
what have you done about irving august?
oh, I am making investigations.
you have never believed a word i told you about mr. august.
look, mary, now that i know you better, i think i can be more frank with you. i do not believe you. i still can not understand the reason for such a wild tale. it is like some of jacqueline's stories.
greg, it is not a wild tale. it is true. if there were only some way --
there is a very simple way. got a telephone book?
is it fifteen minutes yet?
no, nancy.	you've got to sleep two more minutes.
dr. judd?
yes, miss gibson. I have come to take you to your sister.
do not be so amazed. it is a very ordinary matter. I am jacqueline's physician... mr. ward told me you were in town and jacqueline has sent me to bring you to her.
you know where she is?
if i did not know where she was, could i take you to her? get your hat and coat. we have not much time.
it is my cloven hoof. it trips me up sometimes.
cloven hoof?
yes. you know the devil and all his minions are marked that way.
jason, my pet
bella romari	if i were not seated, i would embrace you in three movements like a sonata.  ah, my wonderful one. fly with me tonight. we will take your coffee machine and live with the gypsies.
what are you thinking of, bella? can i eat dry?
oh, the wine. i have forgotten the wine.
please - i can not explain things like this to your right ear.
last night in this very restaurant mr. jason hoag paid a very pretty compliment to my right ear.
who the devil is he?
a poet. he is sitting right over there. that is his table  the one at the feet of dante.
why can not everyone be happy like we are -- laugh and have good times. look at that poor little one  so sad because she can not find her sister. and that man with her - he does not make her laugh  he just sits and talks.
we are happy, mrs. romari, because you have everything  and i am happy because i have nothing to lose.
but you should make her laugh, jason. come, make jokes for her. I will bring your food to their table.
you could have told me any time you were jacqueline's husband.
things changed, mary. the reasons for finding jacqueline changed. i want to find jacqueline to settle things.
what things? why?
well,then i have spoiled your dinner -- "your food will not digest, and your wine will sour."
you will have to make all the jokes, because I am going to be very serious.
I am going to find your sister.
i do not think that is a good subject for jokes, mr. hoag.
but I am not joking.
do not be ridiculous. for months I have had the best private detective in new york looking for miss gibson.
but I am better than a detective. i have an understanding of people - and a love of them -- an understanding of the city - -
you do not even know jacqueline gibson.
but i understand her. that may be more important.
it may make very fine poetry, mr. hoag, but it does not make good sense.
mary, when you first came here, i told you to look into your heart. you did not listen to me. you listened to the policeman instead. you did not find your sister, did you?
look here, just because mrs. romari asked you to amuse us.
well?
this is the part of new york i love. it is old. it has memories. if you listen, the houses will speak to you. walt whitman...edna st. vincent millay... eugene o'neill...in their time they have all lived here.
all very nice but, what are you going to do - listen at every house in new york for jacqueline's voice?
I am looking for a party -- a merry party.
well, that is illuminating.
where is jacqueline gibson?
what a peculiar question.
i saw you with her last week. i knew you would be here tonight. where is she?
my dear fellow, it is neither your business to ask, nor mine to tell.
see that girl? that is jacqueline's sister. it is because of her i ask.
but why come to me?
because there was another girl years ago -- a nice girl. she lived on barrow street. i saw her with you once - i saw her with you twice and then i never saw her again. that is why.
she was my patient.
what was she to you?
i do not think that you would understand if i told you.
i think i understand without your telling me. i know something of your history, jason. i know that you have not written for ten years.
I have lost my knack.
after that wonderful first book - after all the adulation and the good reviews?
at least you knew about dr. judd.
yes.
and you knew he would be here.
yes. and now that I have shown you that i know that much, and can guess more -- will you trust me to look for jacqueline?
i want you to look for jacqueline.
oh, mr. jason. i really should not be doing this, you know. it is against the rules.  when did you say you wanted them?
i want to see what they read so I will know what kind of books to give my friends as presents. there is nothing nicer for a gift than a book.
who was the first one -- mrs. redi?
and the other was judd?
yes, dr. louis judd.
it is here, too.
would it be asking too much, miss gottschalk, for you to get me these books?
no, not at all, mr. jason.
why, mr. jason. most of these books are on the closed shelf. you have to get permission.
i would not want to take them out. i just want to look at them.
well, since, you are over twenty one
it is terribly sweet of you, jason.
i have something even better.
i have been at the library.
but you are always at the library.
i went as a detective. i found out that mrs. redi reads the same books as dr. judd.
i do not think that is so revealing.
but who is judd, a psychiatrist. it is quite natural that he should read books on the history of old religious societies. but why should mrs. redi, a woman with a beauty parlor --?
i do not know.
that is it. and this figure --she traced it. the book i saw at the library had been marked "perfect" by the library inspector in march. mrs. redi had it out in april. no one else had read it since.
I am at sea, jason.
such a simple matter. this figure is the symbol of the palladists.
it is all clear to me now -- so clear.
i thought it would be, but just to be sure, I will tell you that the palladists are a society of devil worshippers --
devil worshippers!
look. I am serious. it is a real and vary earnest society -- a dangerous society...
i can imagine.
some time before those nice white gloves are dry you are going to go and find out a few things about mrs. redi.
i can not see much fun in teaching school. why do not you go into the beauty business.
but i like teaching school.
well, if it is fun for you, it is all right. i get a kick out of my work when the customers are not too crabby.
is mrs. redi nice to work for?
redi's all right.
she seems rather an odd woman to me.
she is a pretty good sort.
what does she do with herself after business hours?
it always seemed to me she was sort of lonely and unhappy.
i guess most people are.
the tip is, anyhow. i like to work on your hair.
thank you.
do you know what this is, frances?
i ought to know.
what is it?
I am afraid not.
that is too bad.
what did she want?
i did her hair.
what were you talking about?
nothing.
nothing! that is absurd. i heard you laughing and talking, she was asking questions.
she was just asking about you - whether it was nice to work for you or not.
and that was all?
no. she asked about the trademark.
what did she want to know?
she showed me a drawing.
you	fool! that symbol is us -- us. she was asking about us.
i know the others -- redi, fallon, leo, bruns. but i would never have guessed it of you, natalie.
one believes - it is like any other religion...
I would hardly describe it that way - the worship of evil is a pretty dreadful and special thing.
it seems right to us.
i know the theory behind the movement. if one believes in good one believes in evil. if one believes in god, one must believe in the devil. and an intelligent person can make his own choice  that is it, is not it?
because you are intelligent -- that is why they sent me to you --
i think i can give you a more practical reason for your kind invitation. i know too much. i was jacqueline's psycho-analyst.
i always thought it was a more intimate relationship.
perhaps, natalie, this is a bargain you are offering me --i am being allowed to join -- to buy safety by betraying jacqueline -- is that it?
i have not said anything of the sort.
but you would like to know where she is?
yes. there are certain punitive measures...
i can imagine. but you did say you came to me as my friend --that you were concerned for me.
I am afraid you have mistaken my motive, louis. i thought you might understand and sympathize.
i have no sympathy for either good or evil. i have only curiosity -- a professional curiosity. what unhappy people most of you are!
are we?	i thought i was very gay.
a gay lot - redi, for instance.  i do not know what her sorrow is,	but her life's an empty one. she is had to have this to cling to. frances fallon, with her worship of jacqueline, has had to follow like a sheep. and bruns, the fanatic. and you...
i was a great dancer...
a strange collection. you are like the false god you worship... fallen angels, all of you.
life has betrayed us. we have found there is no heaven on earth, so we must worship evil for evil's own sake. we are not wicked. we commit no violence, unless...
unless what?
no, you draw no secrets from me, as you drew them from jacqueline. you are not one of us yet. you are clever, louis, but i recognize your interest in me for what it is worth. you are only curious. you have never loved a woman who had but one arm.
it would be a charming experience. she might only protest half as much.
you are very flippant and perhaps wise, but not wise enough to see the truth, louis.
yes.
this is mrs. redi, mary.
I will be out in a minute.
that will not be necessary. i have not much to say.
if i were you, mary -- I would go back to school. I would make no further attempt to find jacqueline.
why?
it will make you unhappy to find jacqueline. it would put her in danger --- great danger --
i can almost feel your doubt about what I am saying, mary.
i can not give up looking for her, mrs. redi, no matter what you are hinting at.
i have no intention whatsoever of hinting. your sister, mary, is a murderess. she killed irving august -- stabbed him out of fright when he discovered where she was hiding.
i do not believe it.
i had to help get rid of the body. you saw it on the subway. and i warn you, mary -- go back -- you do not know what you are doing, or what dreadful things you might bring about by looking for your sister. you go back to school - - go back and forget jacqueline.
I am sorry to be late, natalie.
we have not even begun tea yet.
sorry. I am nervous. this is very trying for me.
i know. you introduced jacqueline to us -- but how could you tell -
i should have known. she had no sincerity - no real belief.
some of us, frances, must believe without understanding.
yes.
i went back through the history last night. i read about johann rozenquartz -- i read what he wrote --
i can quote it fully, mrs. redi. "we will avoid violence. for once undertaken, violence becomes its own master and can lead to either good or evil."
but he also wrote --
i can quote that too; "those who shall go out into the market place and let their tongues speak of us, and give knowledge of our being and our deeds, whom-so-ever doeth this shall die."
but she told him, frances. she told him about us.
i know this is difficult for you. i know that you love her.
it is a very real danger and one which forces our decision.
what about judd -- he knows about us.
i have taken care of mary. I have spoken to her. she is going back to school.
then it is decided. leo and durk and i will make our plans.
i want you to see my room. i want you to see all of it.
but it is a small room, jason.
it is grown big with time -- I have lived here with the romari's for ten years -- the room's become part of me. i want you to see it  to know me better.
my window - - through which i see the world.
it is beautiful -- that searchlight - the stars --
it is not a searchlight  it is a sword blade cutting the blue cloak of a prince - not stars --
jason, I am going back to highcliffe. i came to say good-by.
i thought your coming up here to the third floor to see me -that it was your advent into my world. it turns out to be good-by. why?
i have to go -
but you are happy here -- you like your work -
it is not that -- you said, "have to go." what could compel you --
do not make me tell you, jason.
i thought myself your friend, mary. just good-bye is not enough for a friend.
i had begun to write again -that's whet i was doing when you came in.
it is because of jacqueline  i can not go on looking for her --
you went to see mrs. redi... she told you something -- what was it?
jacqueline is a murderess she killed a man.
and you believe that?
i have to. it was irving august -- everything mrs. redi said - it fits in with what i saw - she even knew I would seen his body on the subway.
if it is true  there is all the more reason for you to find jacqueline.
and gregory -- he loves her.
he loves you, mary, and you will have to tell him.
he is jacqueline's husband. i can not
she is got to be found. that is the first step. she is got to be found so that she can give herself up to the police.
we have tried so long to find her.
do you think he knows about this?
i do not know.
he is clever and he is cautious in his way. if he knew i think he would advise her to do what i want - surrender herself to the police  stand trial  i do not think he knows.
we could tell him.
could you find him?
i suppose so. i can pick him up somewhere.
what is that?
verse -- verse that i wrote. i need it.
following me to find jacqueline?
uhhuh.
well, it will not work. love and understanding will not make a good detective out of a recalcitrant poet.
actually i want to ask two favors of you -- one as a poet 	one as a detective.
it sounds strange, and I am going to be very wary.
this is curious, jason. half the time you talk as if shakespeare were not fit to tie your shoelaces; now this sudden humility.
i should like people to read what I have written.
and this poetry  like the poetry you wrote before extols the passion and beauty of life?
it goes beyond that. it praises the goodness of god and the greatness of all his works.
i hope it finds as much favor as your other book -- but somehow i doubt it -- the time is out of tune.
why not let your publisher judge that?
wait - there is that other favor.
I would forgotten.
tell me where jacqueline is - we have got to find her.
you do not expect me to do that do you?
yes. when i tell you.
tell me what?
you will have good enough sense to tell us where she is - when you know she is a murderess. she killed a man.
tell me, why this sudden desire to publish  to awaken like byron and find yourself famous.
i think it is time.
no other reason  no woman not the little miss gibson?
perhaps.
I will do all i can to help. I will go to my publisher tomorrow.
please, jacqueline.
you know about the palladists -- you know who they are -- what they are. i was one of them.
don't. we know what happened. do not go on.
any court in the land would understand. we will wait a few days -- let you rest -- then we will go to the police.
it will all be over in such a little while, jacqueline, and everything will be all right again. drink your coffee.
i thought i might close up the apartment -- maybe get a place in connecticut.
you would love that, jackie. remember that last summer with mother in the berkshires? you used to help the gardener.
yes. you could become a country wife -- fool around with petunias and pullets.
it will be fun meeting gregory every night at the station.
good night, jacqueline -- good night, mary.
good night.
I am afraid this is no time to play cyrano, my friend. what was in your mind?
i wanted to get things clear for jacqueline. let her know --
let her know what?
that you love mary.
she will have to know some time.
not from me.
i suppose, jason, that you will speak for your friend --  -- and your poetry will speak for you.
perhaps
good-bye, darling. I will only be gone until three.
good-bye.
if you get lonely, go down and see mrs. romari. i told her you were staying with me.
i will not get lonely.
you will be all right?
yes.
is it about jacqueline?
no. she is no longer under my care.
i do not know how to begin this, natalie. perhaps it is best to just plunge in. i want to join you.
we always knew you would come to us, louis.
but I am not coming to you out of deep conviction, I am coming to you out of loss. i no longer can believe in the power and the rightness of things that are called good.
i never thought you did.
I have talked nonsense. I have scoffed and hooted -- but somewhere very deep down in me, i always felt that good held the balance of power.
you are even sentimental about it. what made you change your mind?
this is incredible i it must be some sort of a joke.
I am very, very serious.
but you have never liked jason. you always laughed at him - -quarreled with him --
and i love and admire him more than any man i ever knew. i read these poems. he is lost his talent and his was a really great gift. what i have to do today -- to bring him this rejected manuscript -will be the most disheartening thing i have ever done and the most disillusioning.
this is the most amusing thing i have ever heard and with a bit of gossip to season it  your failure with jacqueline. has she returned to her husband?
no, she is with her sister,
children, i want you to be very good and very quiet while i see mrs. wheeler a moment. she is going to take over this class for a while.
why
because i have something very important to do.
what?
I will be right back with mrs. wheeler.
when?
the acceptance of a secret is an obligation and in this case my dear, the obligation carried with it the necessity of dying if one betrayed that secret. you understand that do not you?
yes, i understand.
then, you also understand that you must die.
no.
jacqueline, you have spoken so often of ending it all, i can not understand why this should be so difficult for you. you have only to drink a little.
yes, jacqueline. you were always talking suicide - - of ending your life when you wanted to.
when i wanted to.
it does not matter. you want to now. you should want to. it is your obligation, your duty.
you have only to stretch out your hand, take up the glass and drink a little.
it will not hurt.
i do not suppose you will ever tell her, will you?
she is very young -- i have an old habit of failure. it would be a bad habit to bring to a marriage.
a book of successful verse might have changed that, eh?
it might have.
may i have some water? I am thirsty.
drink.
no.
you will not get any water and you will not get any rest. you may as well drink.
if you like, I will go with you to dinner.
I would like that.
i can not find gregory. I have been trying to find him.
what is wrong, mary?
jacqueline. mr. romari phoned me. she went out this afternoon with two men he would never seen before.
they may have been friends of hers.
what?
they may have found her.  mrs. cortez - this morning i told her jacqueline was no longer under my care.
would they hurt her?
i do not know.
who are you?
I am mimi -- I am dying.
no!
yes. it is been quiet, oh ever so quiet. i hardly move, yet it keeps coming all the time -closer and closer. i rest and rest and yet i am dying.
and you do not want to die. I have always wanted to die -- always.
I am afraid.
I am tired of being afraid - of waiting.
why wait?
I am not going to wait. I am going out -- laugh, dance --do all the things i used to do.
and then?
i do not know.
you will die.
that was dr. judd. he was phoning to say that, jacqueline is on her way here -
gregory   you would better take jacqueline with you tonight.
it is what i should have done yesterday. I will take her away somewhere where she can rest.
no. stay that way. i want to talk to you. i love you - you know that?
yes.
perhaps, later, when things are settled, when jacqueline's well again -- maybe we can arrange things differently.
I have never loved any one before, gregory, and i do love you - you must know it -- but jacqueline's my sister  whom i had lost and have found again....
i know  i should not have told you
no, I am glad....at least I have heard you say it...
i hate people who try to peddle comfort. but,mary, you should not mourn for jacqueline. life for her was full of the agony of a disordered mind. it is better this way.
i keep telling myself that.
not i - i am alive, yet every hope i had is dead,  death can be good. death can be happy.. if i were really dying i could speak like cyrano - "my courage like a white plume"  and all the other lovely words with which he greeted death. then perhaps you might understand,
i understand.
good. we all understand each other. you, gregory and i. we all know. there is sunlight in the streets and work to do. both of you - you are off to work.
