to a situation) really, mr. reed, there is not anything to worry about. it was only a slap --
that is exactly what i told mr. reed, but he insisted upon remaining home from business to talk to you, miss callahan.
i know it may seem stupid of me--but it is not the slap I am worried about -- it is the reason.
something to do with a butterfly-- they were quarreling about it.
no. amy slapped donald because he had hurt the butterfly -- and it was her friend.
well, that seems a harmless fancy --
amy has too many fancies -- too few friends. it worries me. it does not seem normal.
it is late, mommy -- you have not forgotten my birthday party.
your birthday, amy --  as she goes) -- and i have something for you in my locker. a present.
mommy's having a party for me. i asked robert, and donald, and lois --
well, it shows imagination, anyhow.
i wonder if you do not resent that in her?
I am sure i don't, alice.  it is something else -- something moody -- something sickly --  she could almost be irena's child.
I would hate her to grow up like that.
she is not irena's child -- there is nothing of irena in her. she is my child.
all i have to do is look at amy's eyes, blue and deep like yours.
I am not a jealous woman, oliver.
i know that.
that is why i can tell you, straight out, you think too much about irena -- blame yourself for her death.  and its your thinking and brooding about her that makes you so unnaturally concerned about amy.
no.  it is not that.  it is because i know what can happen when people begin to lie to themselves -- imagine things. i love amy too much to let her lose herself in a dream world where butterflies become pals. i saw what happened to irena with her cat people.
i know, dear.  i understand. but try to worry a little less about her -- be a little easier in your thinking.  and especially today  let's forget about it. we want a really bang-up birthday party, do not we?
you make me sound like the father in "east lynne."
darling, no father could be nicer to a child than you are to amy.
you would better hurry.  I have left amy in the car and she is getting impatient.  she tells me there is something especially important about a sixth birthday.
we will see that she gets there in good time
I am so glad to have met you at last. you are just as nice as amy told me you were.  i hope you will come to see us.
I would love to.
getting the yard all fixed up for your party, amy. you would better hurry and get yourself fixed up too.
mommy's taking me upstairs to change my dress right away.
everything all right down there at the school, mr. reed?
yes, everything's all right, edward.
when i first heard all that talk about you going down to the school to see the teacher i got really afeard.  i thought maybe you night call off this birthday party -- and me with the cake already in the oven.
i imagine a child would have to commit murder or rob the seventh national bank of tarrytown to be deprived of a birthday party.
i thought we were going to save those leaves you were burning for the compost bin.
got more leaf mold now than we will ever need, mr. reed.  i thought I would burn 'em up and get the yard clean.
is that my birthday cake? may i see?
you will see it when it is all lit and ready for you.
you will not have long to wait. in just a few minutes this house will be overflowing with boys and girls. off with you now, amy. go out and watch from the gate for all the children who will be coming.
go on -- out with you.
why do not you take off your hat and stay awhile?
i forgot i had it on.
where is everybody?
it is early yet.
it is nearly a quarter after four. the party was for four, was not it?
yes, darling,
gosh, in my day kids arrived at birthday parties before anybody was ready for them,
times have changed.
oilie, that is for the children to play with.
no kids yet.  something is gone wrong. maybe i ought to call somebody.
all right, ollie.  go ahead. call the boyds...3000w...see if their darling donald has left.
i think i should.  3000w?
that is right.
something is haywire,
what do you mean?
i called not only the boyds but the irvings.  neither of them received invitations.
but they must have.  amy and i made them out together.  you mailed them, did not you, edward?
well, ma'am, the truth is, i gave them to amy hersolf to post.
and amy mailed them?
she pleaded so to do it
amy, you remember the party invitations edward, gave you to mail?
yes, daddy.
did you mail then?
yes, i did.
where did you mail them?
I will show you.
amy, not that old tree!
yes, daddy.
but i told you about that so long ago; you could not have been more than three when i told you that tree was a magic mailbox.
i did not forget.
but, amy, that was just a story; it was not real.  that tree's no mailbox.
amy, make a wish.  wish real hard, and then blow out the candles, and your wish will come true.
but wishes do not come true.
certain wishes do.
but you told me in the garden-- that the wish about the tree could not come true.
but this is different.  go on blow,
you get your wish!
you know what i wished, daddy? i wished i could be a good girl.
but edward, in this kind of a wish that does not matter.
i can make wishes like this come true.  I will be just like daddy wants me to be -- play with the other children -- not sit around by myself  tell the truth --
look at my ring.
that is a fine-looking ring.
a lady threw it to me.
most surely that was a nice lady to give a ring to a little girl.
it is a pretty ring.
i would not be surprised if it were a true wishing ring.
a ring that i can wish on like i wished on the candles?
maybe, if it is a real mourning ring like we have in jamaica. all you got to do is turn it on your finger, close your eyes, and make a wish.
the ring up to him) what is a mourning ring?
they are given to the living in memory of the dead.  if this is a real one -- i can not be sure -- you can make a wish, and it will come true in the twinkling of an eye.
well, if it is a real mourning ring,. I am going to think hard for something i want more than anything else in the world before i wish.
that is the clever way to do it.
what do you want. amy?
i wanted to talk to you,  i wanted to tell you about the other children.
can not you tell me later?
but i did not play with them, daddy.  they would not play with me.
what do you mean you did not play with the other children?
it was on account of the birthday party.
because you did not ask them?  i do not blame them for being angry. why did not you explain what happened?
they ran away.
why did not you run after them?
i did.  i came to an old dark house, and a voice called to me -- a lovely, sweet voice ---
now amy
it is true.
and who did the voice belong to?
it was just a voice.
now look, this is the last time you come to me with any such stories  I am sick of this sort of thing.
daddy, it is true.
let me be the judge of that.
my, my, what a coil we are in! what is this all about?
amy's been lying again.
no, i didn't.
voices from an old dark house!
did you hear the child out?
well, it seemed to me --
you mean you didn't. it seems to me the least you could do. you can not just jump at conclusions that way. you are being unfair.
I am never unfair.
you are shouting at me.
I am not shouting at you, but there is no doubt in my mind that you spoil this child!
I am sorry. daddy and mommy are a little upset.
you are upset about me -- i made you fight --i hate for you to fight.
been crying? that will not please your daddy. you would bettor cheer yourself up.
I am trying to.
let me take another look at that ring.
amy looks happy  seems almost as if she were playing with another child; like somebody else were running with her and playing.
i like to see her happy.
so do i, mr. reed.
i did not even have to coax her tonight.
that is because she made a promise, and she'a keeping it, are not you, darling.  you saw the way she played this afternoon, edward.
indeed i did. up and down the garden she went, laughing and singing to herself.
i was not singing to myself.
oh, i suppose it was to the wind you sang, or maybe to the sun, or the clouds, or maybe it was to the flowers in the garden.
what are saying, darling?
i was not saying anything. i was singing.
i suppose any note, no matter how sour, is a song if you hold on to it long enough.
what song, dear?
the song i was trying to hum. the song my friend, taught me.
oh, you will remember it some time.
mommy --
yes, darling.
did you ever make a wish?
oh, lots of times.
did your wishes ever come true?
sometimes.
i made a wish today, and it came true just like edward said it would.
where did you get this ring?
that is what i wished on. edward says it is a wishing ring -- and it is!
but where did you get it, amy?
at the old house with the voice.
someone gave it to you? where was this old house?
on the back street  a green house
the farren house
do you know the people?
no dear. i do not know them, but I have heard about them.
are they nice?
i really do not know, but i do know that you must return the ring. you get edward to take you up there and bring it back to the old lady.
well  the mother or daughter -- whichever one gave it to you. you ask edward to go with you.
i got my wish anyway.
you must not tell anybody, or it will not come true.
but it is already come true.
sh! then you must keep it true. goodnight, darling.
little miss, you are stopping me in my work.
but i want to talk to you. mommy says for you to come up to the old house with me. I have got to take back this ring.
you just wait until i finish here. I have got to dust these ships for your dad.
will you come soon?
soon as i finish.
you are going to be busy all day long, edward.
i do suppose so. but if you were there yesterday, guess you can get there today.
that means i can go alone?
hello, amy.
are you coming to see us. miss callahan?
no, darling, i had not intended to.
i live right here.
maybe I will drop in and see your mommy.
oh, hello.
hello. i just met amy and she pointed out where you live.
oliver's pet,  I am sure it would be the first thing he would grab if we ever had a fire.
i know how it is.  my dad collects miniature canon.
but it is a part of our lives too --a part of our past, it is a goya reproduction. those three cats --  are supposed to be the most beautifully drawn cats in western art.
but you do not keep a cat, do you?
we do not even like them,  I have often thought of giving it away, but oliver would not stand for it.  it was his first wife's favorite picture.  she was an artist.
i did not know mr. reed had been married before.
yes. as a matter of fact, i was on the point of telling you about it yesterday  about oliver's first marriage  and his wife's death. it has so much to do with amy  although he will never realize it.
i thought you were with amy.
no, she went runnin' off to some old house she was talkin' about yesterday.
that is the farren house.
is that where she got the ring, mrs. reed? she should not be up there.
but i told her to go with you.
she said something about that, mrs. reed  but she did not tell me it was the farren house. I will get my other hat and coat and go over there.
you do that, edward.
that the old actress -- julia farren?
yes,  she is a little odd, i understand.
but quite harmless, I am sure.
I have been watching you. you could not see me, but i could see you. it was like peeking through a slit in the curtain before the play began. you would be a very good audience. i can see that.
if you were the lady who gave me a ring, my mother says i have to give it back to you.
return it to me? indeed you may not. i gave it to you as a present.
but my mother says i must not accept gifts from strangers.
stranger? julia farren a stranger. why I have played every theatre from boston to san francisco. I have been to london and paris. those days  those beautiful, shilling, golden days.
but i only came to give back the ring.
the ring? we will have no more nonsense about the ring.
she is always spying on me. she creeps into the room. she lives upstairs, yet she is always watching me  always!
who is she?
that woman is an imposter, a liar, and a cheat. how do you like your tea? </pre><pre>                                amy well... .sometimes i got a spoonful of tea in a cup of hot milk.
there you are. take some cake, why do not you?
no, thank you.
one little piece of cake will not hurt you. go ahead, take one. it is full of fruit...citron, cherries and ginger. it will make you dream. yes, wonderful dreams.
i like stories.
then I will tell you a story  a lovely story. do you know the story of rapunzel?
mommy read it to ne.
do you know the story of "the headless horseman?"
the headless horseman --
why has not he got a head?
it was shot off long ago in the great battles that were fought here; with the british on one side and the americans on the other.
about time for you to come home, amy.
but mrs. farren just started to tell me a story. please.
let the child stay.
now, i do not know amy --
he will let me stay, mrs. farren. he will let me stay.
good.
on the dark nights  on the stormy nights -- you can hear him. he passes like the wind; the flapping and fluttering of his great cloak beating like gaunt wings. the thunder of his horse's hooves is loud, loud and louder, beating hard, beating strong on the frozen ground as he comes riding, riding, riding.
little miss, you can not stay here. you have got to come with me.
...at the hour of midnight, down the road that goes through sleepy hollow, across the bridge, he goes galloping, galloping, always searching, always seeking
come away, amy.
little miss, do not you never come here alone. you gave me a fright, you did.
but she is such a nice lady.
but i do not want you coming here alone. you get me to go with you when you want to come here. you promise?
my daughter, barbara, died when she was six. that was long ago. you are only the woman who keeps care of me. i know you.
look at me.
what is it, alice?
i thought amy was calling. i guess not.
ollie.
what?
it is your play.
I am sorry. i was somewhere else. he returns to the card game.
edward will give you your breakfast, amy.
i had my breakfast while you were still asleep.
i have not had my breakfast.
well, you know where it is.
where did you get this, darling?
it was right there on top. is not she pretty?
she was very pretty.
what is her name?
irena.
irena.
look! why do not you run out and play? the sun's shining.
all right, mommy.
where did you get it?
amy picked it off the top of that stack. perhaps you would better go through the whole bunch. there may be others of irena in there.
some day I am afraid we are going to have to tell her about irena.
i suppose so.
who are you?
you called me by my name.
irena. but who are you?
I am your friend.
I have wanted a friend.
I have wanted a friend too. I have been lonely.
but where do you come from?
you would not understand. i come from great darkness and deep peace
but where is that?
i can not tell you.
will you be friend for always?
for as long as you will let me.
i shall want you for always.
for always, then. only you must promise never to tell anyone about me
not even daddy...or mommy?
no. this must be a friendship that only we shall have... you and i... amy and her friend.
oh, i like the sound of that.., amy and her friend... amy and her friend.
you will always play with me?
whenever you want.
can not you get it, darling?
I will just never learn arithmetic.
but you must!
the numbers simply do not mean anything
oh yes they do.  look.  one is like a tall princess.
a princess?
of course. and two is the prince who kneels before her on one knee.
yes, yes! i see prince,
that is right!
this is more fun than just pretend.
of course,
what is funny?
that darn kid. i never in my life expected her to get an a in arithmetic. math's is a practical science --- if she understands figures, she is well out of her own world of make-believe.
there is an oak leaf.  add a maple.
that one's an elm.
light shining) in her eyes) throw sea weeds into the flames, and the fire turns blue!
but we do not have any sea weed.
pretend, darling.  it is all soul's eve.  round about the fire we go...  over the flames we leapt
no, i do not think that is very much fun. let's play house instead.  you be the friend who comes to see me.  I will show you my children.
your children?
my dolls. we can pretend.
all right, amy.  button your sweater, darling. it is turning cold.
yes, winter's coming.  i do not like the winter,
oh, but the winter's fun. there is the wind and the snow. you will like the warm fire upon the hearth, and the long, long nights.
these are all from me.
this one says, "to mother from amy."
oh, thank you, darling.
you can not open it yet. you have to put all of them under the tree until morning.
"to daddy from amy." here's one for miss callahan. this one says, "to edward from amy.".
good heavens! what could you be giving me. little miss?
just you wait!
and this one's for mrs. farren.
she gave me a ring, so I am giving her a ring. i paid twenty-five cents for it, too.
this one has not got a name on it. who is this one for, amy?
what did you get for christmas?
i do not know yet.
my goodness, do not you open your presents until christmas morning?
no.
we open ours on christmas eve. that is considered proper.
well, i guess we are not a very proper family.
merry christmas, irena.  i brought you a present.
oh, thank you, amy.
you can open it now, i guess. lois huggins says that is proper,
oh, how beautiful!
it reminded me of you, so i bought it. it cost me more than all the others.
i shall wear it in my hair!
oh, that is more beautiful than i ever imagined it!  i wish i could show you to mommy and daddy.  i wish you could enjoy christmas with us.
you and i shall enjoy christmas together. shall i show you my christmas gift to you?
oh, please!
merry christmas.
a merry christmas to you, amy.
i got lots of presents.
and you should.  your mommy tells me you have been such a good girl, and your daddy is so pleased with you.
mommy, could edward take me to mrs. farren's house to give her her present?
would not it be just the same, darling, if daddy dropped the present at mrs. farren's on his way to town tomorrow morning?
but it will not be christmas tomorrow.
all right, amy.  go tell edward to take you.
does she go up to the farren's often?
no. i only let her go with edward.  it is alright.
so beautiful, irena. so beautiful.
you wanted to share this moment with me.
it stands so still.
because it knows it can move with the swiftness of strong wind.
i can sea its breath in the cold.
it is a warm breath -- warm and strong  warmed by the sunlight that shone on the deer's back in the hot summer; sweet with leaves and mosses.
may i pet the deer?
it is wildness and freedom. no one can touch it.
i want to touch it.
there was a deer on the other side of the fence.
it is a hard winter. all the animals are bold as brass, coming down into the streets for food. you will see a lot of deer this winter.
i brought you a present. merry christmas.
a christmas present. it is been so long since I have had a christmas present.
there is a present you have not opened yet, ma'am.
that is from her -- that woman.
it is some animal hurt in the woods that made that sound.
wait a minute. listen.
what?
do not you hear it?
what is it, ma'am?

who is herne the huntsman?
do not you read shakespeare?
and does he kill people?
no, not people -- just deer and game, but the people he catches can never be free again. they too must kill and kill, covering themselves with blood.
it is dark. we would better be getting on. the family will be waiting.
such a brief visit, but dear child, it has made my christmas very merry.
you did not even open my present and I am your daughter.
my daughter died long ago.
must not look, little miss. must not look.
but i saw what it was. it is the little deer.
bad luck to see death in the snow.
but what happened to the little deer?
probably hit by a car. hard to see things in the twilight.
why is it just lying there? why does not it get up?
because it can't. it is dead.
but it was alive  it was fast and strong!
it got hit.
but where has it gone?  where is all the strength and the quickness?
i love the smell of pine.
it is one of the clearest memories i have. twelfth night...burning pine... and mummers' plays.
it is been ages since I have even thought of a mummers' play. when i was in college we used to do them every year  st. george and the dragon, all kinds of sword dances.
daddy!
yes, amy?
why, daddy, you know my friend too!
amy, answer me. why did you call her your friend?
because she is my friend.
oliver, please. let's not go on with this. the child's trembling.
we have got to go on.  amy, here, all this time, you have let your mother and father think you had forgotten that old dream life of yours. now we find you have only kept it secret.
it is not a secret. she plays with me. she plays with me in the garden all the time. right out there in the garden, she does!
in the garden? would she be there now?
she is there whenever i call her!
she is there, just like i said she would be.
where, amy? where do you see her?
do not you see her?...right there, under the tree.
amy, there is nothing there. there is no one at all in the garden.
but irena is in the garden. she is right there, under the tree.
listen, darling. i want you to look once more. take as long as you want. look very carefully, and then i want you to tell me that no one's there.
but...
i have eyes too, and i tell you no one's there. if you deny that, if you insist that this woman you call your friend is in the garden, then I am afraid i shall have to punish you. do you understand?
forgive me, but it was superstition ...foolish, childish wishes...that started, all this.
what do you mean?
i can see it all...the very day it began. amy was lonely; she was desperate for friendship. i remember the night she told me she had wished on her ring. that must have been the day she first wished for a friend.
she refuses to deny it. she continues to believe in her lies.
but do not you see...it's just what i was about to say to alice...amy in her own mind may not be lying.
but there was nothing, no one in the garden.
she needed, a companion, so out of her own hunger she created one. in her mind her friend was in the garden. in her mind her friend never leaves her. right this very minute I am sure she is upstairs sobbing out her grief to a friend who exists only in her mind.
it is perfectly normal for a child to dream. i can see how a sensitive little girl, finding this portrait, would take the image of this woman and make of her an imaginary friend. that image dwells only in her imagination, and that image can go as quickly as it was born.
how?
once the emptiness in amy's life is filled, the dream will go of itself. if a up to you, both of you. only you two can bring her into a real world.. you must give her the friendship and love she craves.
but we have. she is wanted for nothing.
perhaps she is wanted for understanding.
i hate the storm. i hate it!
the storms have done everything they can to me, i do not hate them. i do not even hear the wind. it blows beyond me. it was on such a night as this that barbara died.
but i am barbara. i did not die.
my barbara was killed. i killed her. yes, it was my fault. everyone told me not to drive from the theatre. there was a raging wind that night, and snow and ice. all was well until we got to the sleepy hollow bridge. barbara was singing a little song and then ...i do not know how it happened ..when i awakened, they told me the car was overturned, and they would not let me see barbara. barbara was dead.
oh, does not that prove something to you? does not it?
anybody could know that song.
look at me. look at me, mother darling. look into my eyes. what color eyes did barbara have?
gray. they were a lovely, lovely gray.
and my eyes...my eyes are gray. look! you see!
yes...yes, that is true.
and my hair...what color hair did barbara have?
it was pale...a shadowed gold.
mother! you called me by name!
yes, barbara... barbara...
promise me you will not forget tomorrow. you will remember, will not you? you will not say that it was just a dream. promise me.
yes. yes, barbara, i shall not forget.
there is another promise you must make me. that little girl who comes here...she must not ever come to see you again. promise me you will not see her.
i-shan't see her. no, barbara, no.
if that child comes here...if i find her trying to steal your love from me...i'll kill her. yes, I will kill her:
I will not see her, barbara. i promise.
good night, mother, good night.
good night...barbara...
hide me? why?
my little girl said she would kill you if you came to see me. i can not let you die. we will have to hide you.
hurry, hurry.
yes, yes -
hurry!
i can not do it! i can not do it!
it is you...irena...my friend!
do not cry, amy.
she is dead! i know what it is now when people say somebody died. i know what they mean! and I am afraid. she is dead; she is dead!
you must not be afraid.
but she is dead!
amy, listen to me. death is not such a terrible thing.
oh, it is, it is! death's terrible.
but, amy!  amy...i'm dead.
you?
yes, amy.
but why?
death's like life. death's a part of life. it is not frightening. it is not the end of everything. it is not quiet and nothingness. it is a part of all eternity.
yes, she was afraid. she said there was someone who wanted to kill me.
but there is no one here, darling.
she is upstairs.. .the lady who lives up there.
daddy?
yes, darling.
tell me tha real truth. you can see my friend, can not you?
