that probably dropped half way to pomona!...what do you think?
it was nearer than that.
number three to. d.o....number three to d.o.
d.o. to number three..come in.
we are getting this under control. will not need any more help.  over.
okay.  send the tanker in, but you stand by until that thing cools off. over.
i think somebody ought to check on it. over.
well, there is some fellows fishing at pine summit might be interested.  they probably saw it come down.  I will let 'em know...what's it look like?
i got a message for you.  you are the guys from pacific-tech, am not you?
right.
looks like the fishing was good.
it is about that meteor.  they say it is a whopper.  the district officer phoned us at the lookout up on the summit. thought you might be interested... it is ten or twelve miles from here - over by linda rosa.
are they sure it is a meteor?  it did not come down like one.
that is right - came down in kinda spurts, did not it?  you fellers'll have to figure it out.  you are scientists  all i know - they say it is as big as a house and practically red hot.
I would like to borrow your car and take a look at it in the morning.
better'n a lion farm or a snake pit. we will not have to feed it!
we sell the tamales, enchiladas - hot dogs!
is that it over there?
yes...ugly looking, is not it.
did you see it come down?
yes...i was fishing up in the hills.
you must have caught plenty with all that tackle!
oh - there were three of us.  the others flew back in my plane.  i do not understand why a meteor this size did not make a bigger crater.
it hit sideways and skidded in.
what is that fellow over there trying to do - dig it out?
he is top man in astro and nuclear physics.  he knows all about meteors!
you seem to know a lot about him.
well, i did a thesis on modern scien- tists - working for my masters degree.
did it do you any good?
why, sure -- i got it!  do you have a match?
I am sorry.  i do not smoke.
forrester's the man behind the new atomic engines.  they had him on the cover of 'time'.  you have got to rate to get that!
aw, he is not that good...!
how can you say that when you do not know him!
i do know him...slightly.
what is he like?
like...ah...
well, you certainly do not look like yourself in that get-up!  but i am happy to meet you anyway. I am sylvia van buren.  i teach library science over at usc.
i did not know how to stop you...!
i might have recognized you without the beard.  and you did not wear glasses on the 'time' cover!
they are really for long distance. when i want to look at something close...  i take them off.
uncle matthew...this is dr. clayton forrester.  my uncle - dr. matthew collins, pastor of the community church.
well-l...how do you do, dr. forrester!
they do not do much of anything...!
there is a square dance at the social hall this evening.
looks almost cold now, do not it?
that will not start no more fires.  we might's well go home.
yeah.  no sense stayin' out here.
let's go.
it is an enemy sneak attack.  let's get outta here!
wait a minute - wait a minute!.... bombs do not unscrew.
it is no meteor, that is for sure!
darnedest thing i ever saw - the way that is unscrewing!
must be somebody in there.
who?  where d'you think they come from!
how would i know...!
maybe these are not men - not like us.
everything human do not have to look like you and me....
we would be the first to make contact with 'em -- see?
we would be in all the papers!
hey, how about that!
we could show 'em we are friendly, huh?  walk out there with a white flag!  here - i got an old sugar sack in my car!
what will we say to 'em?
welcome to california!
they will understand us, all right!
sure, sure!  everybody understands you wave the white flag, you wanna be friends.
hey, there - open up!
come on out!  we are friends!
they have all stopped at the same time.
there is only about one explanation for a thing like this..got a pin?
that is what knocked the phones out, too.
how could it happen to everybody's watch together?
have you got a pocket compass?
that needle am not pointing north!
it is pointing out to the gully - where that meteor came down.
how does it happen cars are running?
automobile ignitions are insulated.
what is that gizmo?!
i think that - gizmo - is a machine from another planet.
we better get word to the authorities and --  look!
the troops are certainly moving in here!
did not you have something to do with this?  i know you sent word to the sixth army command!
i just told them the local situation. colonel heffner's in full charge now.
you never know where you are going to wind up when you go to a square dance!
there is one - there is the other, and we are right between them!
so is the town, i notice!
i warned you civil defense people to be ready if you have to evacuate.
i just came to tell you - everyone has been alerted.
general mann -- i was told to expect you, sir.  I am colonel heffner.
I am here to make up a report, not to interfere with the operations you have set up.  you are still in command.  clayton forrester!  i have not seen you since oak ridge.
good to see you, general.  this is pastor collins, director of civil defense.  sheriff bogany, head of the local forces ... miss van buren.
would you like some coffee, general?
that is their position?  you have certainly got them surrounded.  i suppose they have neutralized all communications here.
not all.  radio is out.  but our field phones are okay so far.
and they will go out the minute there is another ray.  a cylinder reported down by huntington beach.  that is a job for the navy.
we will, sir!
from the data - and from that picture the air force took earlier tonight ...  ... what we have got in the gully out there is a guide ship.  one lands ... others follow later.  they appear to clear an area, then drop in groups of threes, joined magnetically.  is that possible?
my orders are not to go into action unless they make a move out of there.
that is because we want a chance to observe them.  this is the only place we have had time to surround them with sufficient force to contain them.  what happens here will be a guide to all other operations. the minute action begins and a pattern of defense develops, I will get my report to washington.  you have deployed your forces well.
thank you, sir.  if they start anything, we can blast them right off the earth!
they will probably move at dawn.
colonel - shooting's no good!
it is always been a good persuader.
could not you try to communicate with them first - and shoot later if you have to?
they are living creatures out there.
but they are not human!  dr. forrester says they are some kind of an advanced civilization --
if they are more advanced than us, they should be nearer the creator for that reason!
let's go back inside, uncle matthew.
I have done about all i can do here. you go back in.  sylvia - i like that doctor forrester.  he is a good man.
we can not go into town - everybody's getting out of there!  I will fly you over to pasadena.
can you handle one of these?
sure...get in!
you will hit something!  can not you go higher?
no.  the air's going to be full of jets in a minute...and there they are!
i never noticed before - that is a cowboy tie....
i bought it for the square dance. i thought i ought to wear some- thing western.
is that... machine...?
it is gone now.
where are we?
southwest of corona, somewhere. there must have been another cylinder down here.  they have been through this whole area and cleared everybody out.  there is a farmhouse.  let's see if we can find something to eat...!
i almost forget when i ate last.  it looks so good.... you know, mostly i get my meals in coffee shops and restaurants.
do not you live at home?
no, on the campus.  i have not any family.
i come from a big one.  nine of us. all in minnesota, except me.
i have no close folks.  my parents died when i was a kid.
a big family must be fun...i imagine it makes you feel you belong to something.
it does...maybe that is why i feel kind of lost right now.
we will get safely out of here, do not worry.
but they seem to murder everything that moves...!
if they are mortal, they must have mortal weaknesses.  they will be stopped -- somehow!
I have been as close to them as anyone. but not close enough for real observation...
i feel like i did one time when i was small.  awful scared and lonesome...i'd wandered off - I have forgotten why - but the family and whole crowds of neighbors were hunting for me.  they found me in a church.  i was afraid to go in any place else.
i stayed right by the door - praying for the one who loved me best to come and find me.  it was uncle matthew who found me.
i liked him.
he liked you ... i could bawl my head off!
but you are not going to.  you are not the kind.  you are tired, anyway.  you have been up all night.  you cracked up in a plane.  slept in a ditch.  but you want to know something?  it does not show on you at all.
how long was i out?
hours.  I have been so scared...!
nothing there now.
it was...  ...one of them!
what was it like?
i could not see much in the dark - but it was one!
we are right in a nest of 'em! ... I have got to get a look at them.
maybe they are not too sure we are here.
they could be as curious about us as we are about them.
maybe ...  maybe they want to take us alive.
they have blocked it!
it is blocked here, too!  they have pushed up earth or something all around outside.  here, this way...!
that explains why communication is cut the moment their machines begin to move.
madrid has just blacked out!! nothing more coming through.
the same thing that happened on our pacific coast.  anything from them yet?
mister secretary - if they link up with those others near fresno...
all right - I have seen enough!
there is only one thing that will stop the martians!  we have held back pre- viously because of the danger of radiation to civilians.  now there is no choice.  the united nations has voted authority to the united states.  the white house will confirm an order to use the atom bomb.
then our first target will be the initial landing place outside los angeles.
I will request the scientists from pacific-tech to monitor the drop.  we will clear the area all around.  after that we will hit them all over the world. I will have long-range bombers alerted, loaded and standing by.
this martian blood...  let's make a quick analysis and see what we have got!
it might give us something.
is it possible to go in right after the explosion?
yes, with these suits.  we have used them before on atomic tests... odd- looking, are not they?
very futuristic.  yours does not really go with that butch haircut!
i could wear it longer -- but it is less trouble this way.
my kid brother has one.  you know why?
yes ...  fits better in a football helmet.
how did you guess?
that is the kind of a kid brother you would have!
a forlorn hope - but there is a chance.
it might give us time to search out some weakness in the martians.
i believe we can get a lead from their anaemic blood.
we know now that we can not beat their machines -- but we can beat them!  they are mortal beings...the only question is whether we have time enough to do anything!
if we get what transportation we can, and pick up instruments and books from pacific-tech...
the rockies...!  you would rather get back to that big family of yours in minnesota, would not you?
i wonder if they are going through this too...?
i probably would not be able to get to them if i tried...
you will be all right with us....  ...for as long as anybody's got!
do not let's lose each other.
gratzman! -- gratzman!  did you get those biotics?
no.  i thought you had them.
all right.  I will get them!   go ahead - go ahead!  I will catch up with you.
hey, you!  better get outa here!
I am looking for some pacific-tech professors...
there is nobody left around here now.
we had a chance...we could have stopped them!  the mob stole the trucks and smashed everything up.  the fools!  they cut their own throats!
hurry up!  jump in!
there was a girl with them...if i could find her....
you look kinda lost yourself.
but i think i know where she will be....
