what is in here then, lead?
it is my mother's piano.
a piano?
she looks tired.
she is stunted, that is one thing.
oh no, it can not come now.
it must come.
she wants it to come.
yes and so do i, but there are too few of us here to carry it. too - heavy
we can not leave the piano
let us not discuss this further. i am very pleased....
what is he say?
someone died here. it is tapu.
but we came down this way did not we? I am sure we did.
they want more money. they are trying to make two days out of it?
no, no they know another track - to the side of this.
watch your feet!
watch your feet!
careful! watch his hand.
watch his hand
my real father was a famous german composer
ohh the tag is broken.
.... they met when my mother was an opera singer... in luxemburg...
i thought she met your father in luxemburg.
well, yes, in austria where be conducted the royal orchestra.
and where did they get married?
which mountains are those dear?
the alps.
ohhh I have never been there.
mother used to sing the songs in german and her voice would echo across the valleys
one day when my mother and father were singing together in the forest, a great storm blew up out of nowhere. but so passionate was their singing that they did not notice, nor did they stop as the rain began to fall and when their voices rose for the final bars of the duet a great bolt of lightening came out of the sky and struck my father so that he lit up like a torch... and at the same moment my father was struck dead my mother was struck dumb! she- never-spoke-another-word.
ohhh ... dear. not another word from the shock, yes it would be.
please take us to the beach where we landed.
I am sorry, i can not do that.  i do not have the time.  goodbye
hello, then.
hello.
well you stopped combing your hair, which is a good thing, it was looking over done.  you see these are the slits that the heads will go through, show him nessie ... they will be dead, the reverend is going to use animal blood, no doubt it will be very dramatic. tea!
it will be very dramatic.
what would you think if someone played a kitchen table like it were a piano?
like it were a piano?
it is strange is not it? i mean it is not a piano, it does not make any sound.
i knew she was mute, but now I am thinking it is more than that. I am wondering if she is not brain affected.
no sound at all?
no, it was a table.
well, she was very violent with the gown. she tore off a chunk of lace. if had not been there I would have sworn she would used her teeth
oh, yes, yes of course, a concern.
there is something to be said for silence
oh indeed. cotton'.
and with time she will, I am sure, become affectionate.
certainly, there is nothing so easy to like as a pet and they are quite silent.
those 80 acres, that cross the stream, what do you think of them?
on your property?
yes
good, flatish land with reliable water, why? i do not have money. what are you about?
I would like to make a swap.
what for?
the piano.
the piano on the beach? ada's piano?
you would have to organise it up here.
yes, i thought that.
well baines the music lover, i never would have known. hidden talents george.
I will have to get lessons. it would not be much use without them.
yes, i suppose you would.
what on?
on your piano, that is the swap.
what does she say?
she says it is her piano, and she will not have him touch it. he is an oaf, he can not read, he is ignorant.
he wants to improve himself... and you will be able to play on it ...  teach him to look after it.
you have to wash them.
they are washed.
wash them again.
the marks do not come out. they are scars and hardened skin.
she wants to see what you can do.
I would rather not play. i want to listen and learn that way.
everyone has to practice.
i just want to listen.
i got the good wife for you peini. she pray good. clean. read bible. you sleep her peini. she chief daughter.
no, no bible readers.
do not answer, he low born. jun look at him, mongrel. your wife where she?
she lives her own life in new jersey, america.
you have spare wife here peini. you get rnana for that. our chief four wives.
i can not imagine a fate worse than being dumb. turn around.
to be deaf?
oh yes, dear too - terrible! awful!"'
well, that is a strong opinion.
yes, it is unholy.
how are the lessons going? ada nods enthusiastically. he is getting on all right? ada nods again good.
that is good, yes.
t-w~e-l-v~e.
te, kawnarna paraikete mo te tahi hawlie 0 te whenna uci.  unsubtitled
yes, why not.
ada says you are doing well with the piano?
I will have to come and hear you play. what do you play.
nothing just yet
i know why mr. baines can not play the piano.
you have missed this bit.
she never gives him a turn.
and when is the next lesson?
tomorrow.
he is given it to us.
hah, you are very cunning ada, but I have seen through you, I am not going to lose the land this way. wait here!
i do not think you should have given up the piano. i will make sure you are properly taught, with music written on to sheets and...
i do not want to learn.
you do not want to learn.
no.
and what does this do to our bargain? i cannot afford the piano if you mean me to pay.
no, no payment. i have given it back. i do not want it.
well, i doubt i want it very much myself.
it was more to your wife that i gave it.
well, thank you, i expect she will appreciate it.
is it all right? are not you going to play something? ada pulls up a chair and seats herself at the piano. she rubs her hands and places them lightly on the keys, she turns from habit over her left shoulder where stewart waits crossed armed. quickly she removes her hands, stands and gestures flora to play. flora proudly takes ~p the seat, she pulls her lips in trying to control her happiness to say in front of both her mother and stewart.
what will i play?
play a gig.
do i know any gigs?
play a song then
ohhh, it is so dark, it is like a dank cave.
yes, like a cave.
ohh no, it makes my skin creep!
we have just come from george banes' and they have taken him over. it is no wonder he is leaving, he has got in too deep with the natives. they sit on his floor as proud as kings, but without a shred of manners.
... without a shred of manners.
he is quite altered, as if they had been trying some native witchcraft on him. well tomorrow or the day after he will be gone.
baines is packing up?
well he has nothing to pack, but he is leaving. and it is just as well; nessie has foolishly grown an affection for him ... we have had some tears
mama.
take this to baines. tell him if he ever tries to see her again I will take off another and another and another!
go peini ... haere atu e peini.
I will be back.
he says you are not to see her or he will chop her up!
what happened?
quiet down! shhh! where is she?
he chopped it off
jesus! I will kill him! I will kill him. what did she tell him?
has ada ever spoken to you?
you mean in signs?
no, words. you have never heard words?
no, not words.
she has spoken to me. i heard her voice. there was no sound, but i beard it here . her voice was there in my head. i watched her lips, they did not make the words, yet the harder i listened the clearer i heard her, as clear as i hear you, as dear as i hear my own voice.
spoken words?
no, but her words are in my head.  i know what you think, that it is a trick, that I am making it up. no, the words i heard, were her words.
what are they?
i worry for you.
no, i love her, we will be a family. i have her piano. i will mend it, she will get better.
i miss you.
what did she say?
she says, throw the piano overboard.
it is quite safe, they are managing...
what?
she says, throw it overboard. she does not want it. she says it is spoiled
i have the key here, look, I will have it mended...
