how is california?
how should i know?
but mose harper said...
that old goat still creakin' around?...whyn't someone bury him?
lucy's going on seventeen now...
an' she is got a beau! kisses him, too!
that is enough...go on inside and help lucy set the table...you, too, deborah!
not quite...quarter cherokee. the rest is welsh...so they tell me.
you have done a lot of growin'...
it was ethan found you squallin' in a sage clump after your folks was massacred...
it just happened to be me...no need to make any more of it...
not tonight...ben, put that sword back.
it is not a sword, ma...it's a sabre!  did you kill many damyankees with this sabre, uncle ethan?
passed the todd place comin' in... what happened to 'em?
they gave up...went back to the cotton rows...so'd the jamisons... without martha, i do not know...she would not let a man quit.
you askin' me to clear out now?
you are my brother...you're welcome to stay as long as you got a mind to...ain't that so, martha?
have not seen you since the surrender.  come to think of it, i did not see you at the surrender.
i do not believe in surrenderin'...i still got my sabre, reverend...never turned it into any ploughshare neither!
you am not goin'...
he sure is goin'...he's sworn in.
well, swear him out again!...i'll go with you.
now, ethan, i am not sure...
do not argue!...and stay close... maybe they are rustlers...and maybe this dodderin' old idiot am not so far wrong...
you can forget that...  would not be legal anyway.
why?  you wanted for a crime, ethan?
you askin' as a reverend or a captain, sam?
I am askin' as a ranger of the sovereign state of texas.
got a warrant?
you fit a lot of descriptions.
i figger a man's only good for one oath at a time...i took mine to the confederate states of america...  so did you, reverend...
martin! ride me as far as the well!
grab hold!...
somethin' mighty fishy about this trail, uncle ethan...
stop callin' me 'uncle'...i am not your uncle.
yes, sir.
do not have to call me 'sir' neither... nor grampaw neither...nor methuselah neither...i can whup you to a frazzle.
what you want me to call you?
name's ethan...now what is so mighty fishy about this trail?
well, fust off...
killed every one -- an' not for food either...why'd they do a thing like that?
stealing the cattle was just to pull us out...this here's a murder raid...  it shapes up to scald out either your place...or my brother's.
well, come on!
easy!  it is forty miles, sonny...horses can do with some grain and a little rest.
it is all right, ma...i been watchin'... only i wish...
what, ben?
i wish uncle ethan was here. do not you, ma?
nothing for you to see.
leggo...
he cometh forth like a...
amen!...put an 'amen' to it!
...like a flower and is cut down... amen!
I would be obliged if you would get to the point, ma'am.
i am...i am...it's just that i know martha'd want you to think of her boys as well as her girls...and if the girls are...dead...ethan, do not let the boys waste their lives in vengeance!
another one, eh?
this 'un come a long way 'fore he died.
well, that is seven we can score up to your brother, ethan.
let's get along...
why do not you finish the job?
what good does that do?
by what you preach...none!
they are camped by the river -- 'bout twenty miles from here. soon's it gets dark we will circle out so's to jump 'em before day- break.
you are right sure you want to jump 'em, ethan?
it is what we are here for, am not it?
i thought we were trying to get the girls back -- alive...we jump those comanches, they will kill 'em...you know that!
what do you know about it?...what's a quarter-breed cherokee know about the comanche trick of sleeping with his best pony tied right beside him...you got as much chance of stampedin' their herd as...
...as you have of findin' those girls alive by ridin' into 'em... i say we do it my way, ethan...and that is an order!
yes, sir...but if you are wrong, captain clayton, do not ever give me another!
ay-eh...they was here...
sure!...they were here...now they are out there...an' waitin' to jump us!...
you got any more orders, captain?
just keep goin'...
if you were tryin' to surround 'em, you sure succeeded.
how far's the river from here, mose?
steady, daniel boone! you do not want to miss...it makes them think their medicine's stronger than yours...
ay-eh...that's jest what i tole joe powers...that un's gettin' kinda sassy, am not he, ethan?
i did not give any order to fire!
that is all right, captain...i do not need any formal invitation to kill a comanch...
you got one now!
all right...but I am givin' the orders...you take 'em or we split up here and now...
why, sure, ethan...there's just the one thing we are after...finding deborah and lucy...
if they are still alive...
they got to stop sometime...if they are human at all, they got to stop!
naw...a human man rides a horse till it dies...then he goes on afoot...a comanche comes along...gets that horse up...and rides it twenty more miles...then he eats it.
easy on that!
sorry...we do not even know if debbie 'n lucy are with this bunch...maybe they split up...
they are with 'em -- if they are still alive.
you have said that enough!...maybe lucy's dead...maybe they are both dead...but if i hear it from you again, I will fight ya, mr. edwards!
that will be the day!...let's ride.
you want us to fire a shot if...
no...nor build bonfires...nor beat drums neither. I will meet you on the far side.
why did they break off?  was there water in that canyon?
huh...? no...no water.
you all right, ethan?
huh...?  sure I am all right...
say!...what happened to your blanket? lose it?
must've...anyway, i am not goin' back to look for it...
what you saw was not lucy.
it was, i tell you!
what you saw was a buck wearin' lucy's dress...  i found lucy back there in that canyon...i wrapped her in my blanket an' buried her with m'own hands...i thought it best to keep it from you -- long as i could.
what you goin' to do?
get some sleep...tomorrow's another day...
say it. we are beat!
no...our turnin' back do not change anything...not in the long run. if she is alive, she is safe...for a while...they'll keep her to raise as one of their own, 'til she is of an age to...
and you think we got a chance to find her?
an injun will chase a thing til he thinks he is chased it enough...then he quits...same when he runs...seems he never learns there is such a thing as a critter that might just keep comin' on...so we will find them in the end, i promise you that...we'll find them just as sure as the turning of the earth.
do not go takin' that stuff...
am not worth the mendin'...
what you gettin' red-in-the-face for?...i have brothers, have not i?
well i am not one of 'em!
I am a woman, martie...  we wash and mend your dirty clothes all our lives...when you are little we even wash you....how a man can ever make out to get bashful in front of a woman I will never know...
you talk like a feller might just as leave run around nekkid...
would not bother me...  i would not try it in front of pa, though, was i you...
well, you did all a body could, ethan.
i got your boy killed.
do not go blamin' yourself...
why it is just a snip of calico...
you ever see it before...like mebbe on a dress debbie wore?
yes!..yes, i remember!..have they found her, ethan?
no...not yet...
might at least have left me my pants!
shush!...time for bed anyway...  likely these'll need some takin' in...oh, martie, you are that gaunted! ...ma's havin' a turkey for dinner tomorrow and...
good night...laurie...
good night...
jorgensen's been runnin' his cattle with my own...
your cattle?...debbie's cattle!
he is agreed to take you on and share the increase from my herd while I am gone...i'll be pushin' on tomorrow...
i am not stayin'...i set out lookin' for debbie...i aim to keep on...
why?
because she is my...my...
she is your nothin'...she's no kin to you at all!
i always felt like she was...her folks takin' me in, raisin' me like one of their own...
that do not make 'em kin...
all right...i am not got no kin... I am goin' to keep lookin' that is all.
how? you got any horses, or money to buy 'em...you am not even got money to buy cartridges...jorgensen's offering you a good livin' here...
martin...i want you to know some- thin'...
yeah...you want me to know i am not got no kin -- no money -- no horses -- nothing but a dead man's clothes to wear!..you tole me that already... now shut your head!
good night.
futterman!...he's got a little tradin' post on the south fork o' the brazos...laurie, i just got to get me a good horse! think yer pa would...
finish your breakfast...
i gotta catch up with him, laurie!
go on then! pa's in the barn saddlin' the fort worth stud... an' you can take the light gelding with the blaze...
but that is sweet-face -- your own good horse.
take it and welcome...but do not count on finding me here when you get back...i've been dallying around this god-forsaken wind-scour almost two long years waitin' for you...i am not cut out to be an old maid!
i can not help it, laurie...i just got to catch up with ethan...
how did you come by this?
you said there would be a thousand dollar reward.
that is what i said.
you got it with you?
talk!
a young buck fetched it in late last summer...  said it belonged to a captive chile of chief scar...
scar? never heard of any chief scar.
me neither...but this buck claimed he was a big war chief with the nawyecky comanches.
keep talking.
scar's band was headin' north...to winter in at fort wingate...eatin' agency beef. that is what this buck said...maybe he lied.
and maybe you lie...
in that case you will not find her -- and i will not get my thousand dollars.
do not forget to come back with my thousand dollars.
am not yours yet.
hey! what is the idea...?
maybe I am gettin' like mose harper -- my bones is cold tonight...
not so funny...if you recollect what 'nawyecka' means...
what is that?
sorta like 'roundabout' -- like a man says he is goin' one place when he means to go just the reverse...
oh...
you all settled an' comfortable now?
futterman?
he just could not wait...
whatchu doin'?...
oh, all right! well...martin says...
from the beginning...
'dear miss laury'...he spells it with a y instead of an i...e...wouldn't you think he would know...
who cares what he spells it? read the letter.
dear miss laury...i take pen in hand to let you know ethan and me still are trying to catch up with them com- anches the late mister futterman told us about...
the late mister futterman?
that means mister futterman is dead, by golly.
every young man should at least once...go on, laurie! read!
a little comanche squaw - squaw!
let's go...i think i stumbled onto somethin'...
scar?
when are you goin' to learn to keep your mouth shut! come on. let's get out of here.
but i just bought a good blanket.
forget it...
what i heard back there was that a band o' hostile nawyeckas came through this way less'n two weeks ago...
think it might be...?
you do not understand, ya chunkhead! you did not buy any blanket! ya bought her!
what?
you got yourself a wife, sonny!
oh no! tell her she is got to go back...
and have her whole family after our scalps for floutin' one o' their women?...no sir! come on, mrs. pauley...
that is the way to train 'em. looks like mrs. pauley's goin' to make you a fine beautiful wife...
cut it out, will ya...
says her name's wild goose flying in the night sky...but she will answer to look since it pleases ya...
look?
you ask her!
look!  scar?...  do you know where he went? and if he has a girl with him...a white girl -- nai-bist pabo taibo...
beats me how she could get that pony out o' camp without neither of us hearin' a thing...
she am not goin' back to her family, that is certain...not if she took off where the arrow points.
think she means for us to follow?
how should i know...she's your wife!
i think maybe we oughta...
yeah, i kinda figgered you would say that...bein' a new husband and all...
ethan, quit it!
nine...  ten!
what is the sense in it!
least, they will not feed any comanches this winter...killin' buffalo's as good as killin' injuns in this country.
peaceful tribes depend on the buffalo, too....
am not that too bad...if you feel that sorry for your kinfolk, I am surprised you did not take up with that squaw wife of yours...
well, you are a widower now...
what did the soldiers have to kill her for!..
she would be about thirteen now...
we got two around that age...
where?
you will have to wait until we reach the agency...fall in behind the column...
but could not you...?
sorry...  keep the column moving!..close ranks there!
sir -- we charged!..gentlemen -- and i hope you will quote me -- i cannot say too much for the courage of the men who followed me into that cheyenne camp...
cheyenne! what cheyenne?
i beg your pardon?
that camp you hit was nawyecka comanche...chief scar's bunch...
my name's edwards...i'm looking for my niece...she was in that camp when you attacked...
well...i know there were some captives recovered...
are you sure they did not die of carbine shots fired by a bunch o' yank bluebellies so scared they could not tell the difference between a cheyenne and a comanche?
keefer!..put this man under arrest!
that will be the day...  'as we developed the village'... next time you develop a village, hit it where the fightin' men are... you will not get any headlines for killin' squaws.
no...she's not...
i am not sure...where's that doll?
was your niece about their age?
not far from it...
hard to realize they are white, is not it...
they are not white any more -- they are comanche!...let's see the bodies...
well, we only got the one lead -- scar...and where we begin to look, i do not know...
there is one thing. we recovered a bushel of trinkets in that camp... cheap stuff...trade goods...couldn't help noticing that most of it was mexican...maybe if you could talk to some of those mexican traders along the border...what do they call themselves?
comancheros...
that is the breed...course it might take time.
time's running out...but I am obliged to you.
they never find that girl.
yours truly...  and he even has to write his full name...martin pauley...not even just martie!...  i do not care if he never comes back!
leggo my arm...you look mangier 'n ever.
am not been too good...no sir, not too good...gettin' old, ethan...
you were born old...
well, the reward still stands...
do not want no money, ethan...jus' a place -- a roof over m' head...a little grub...a bunk to sleep in... an' a rockin' chair by the fire... my own rockin' chair by a fire...
you help me find her, you got your rockin' chair...
swear it, ethan?...given word?
told ya, did not i?
ethan...i found a man's seen her... knows where little debbie is!
lemme alone...
you breeds are all alike -- two drinks an'...
suit yourself...while you are enjoyin' your little conversation, I will be ridin' out with senor fernandez here... the comanch' medicine country am not far...there's one camp with a chief named cicatriz.
never heard of him...
cicatriz is mex for scar...an' he has a white girl in his tepee...be seein' you...
stay out here.
not likely.
you figger scar means to kill us?
he is got to...all these years, run- nin', dodgin', knowin' we were after him...now we caught up...it's him or us.
why did not he make his move back there?
i do not know...somethin' tied his hands...maybe hospitality...
unnt-meah!
we am not goin'! we am not goin' without you, debbie...ethan, get the horses...i'll try to keep her talkin'...
how? she is even forgot her own language!
debbie, you are comin' with us! hear me?
i do not care what they have done to you...what happened...
they have done...nothing...they are my people...
no debbie! that am not what happened! they been lyin' to you...
you lie! all white men lie...and kill...
debbie, think back! I am martin... remember? remember how i used to let you ride my horse? tell you stories? do not you remember me, debbie?
i remember...from always...at first i prayed to you...come and get me... take me home...you did not come...
I have come now...
these are my people...  unnt-meah! go! go! please!
go on! get out of here while you can...
over there!
they will be back...
we will not be here...come on!
'i, ethan edwards, being of sound mind and without any blood kin, do hereby bequeath all my property of any kind to martin pauley...'  i do not want your property.... 'sides, what do you mean no 'blood kin?' debbie's your blood kin...
not no more.
you can keep your will!  i am not forgettin' you was all set to shoot her yourself...what kind o' man are you, anyway.
she is been with the bucks! she is nothin' now but a...
what is that got to do with us?
what is goin' on?
evenin'...evenin' reverend...or do i call you 'captain'...?
came here for a wedding, ethan... until that is over, i reckon 'reverend' will do...
she is not a little girl any more.
you have seen her!...she's alive?
I have seen her...and she is alive.
i...i wrote you a letter...reckon you did not get it...
one letter in five years...i read it till the paper dried up and the writing faded out...
it was not much of a letter...
no, it wasn't...you mighta said you loved me...you mighta asked me to wait...at least that would have been something...
but i allus loved you...you know that, without my sayin' it...i could not bring myself to ask you to wait...the little i had... not knowin' how much longer until we found debbie...
it is not fair...
do not cry, laurie...i understand how it is...i'll just go 'way...
you do and I will die, martie...i will! I will just die!
charlie maccorry!...you were not fixin' to marry him??
she sure is!...an' do not think your comin' back is goin' to change it!
as to that, i do not know, charlie... we had not got around to talkin' marriage...
what right you got to be talkin' marriage to any decent woman...
if you are talkin' about that crazy murder charge...
and other things...mebbe you thought you was gettin' away with being comical about that indian wife you took...i bet she was not the first squaw you...
it is all right...charlie, let's move outside.
i am not wearing no gun.
is this in the line of duty, sergeant?
no sir...pleasure.
in that case, give the boys room...
fight fair, son...use your fists!
comanches do not use their fists, reverend...let 'em alone...
you all right, sergeant?
dunno...seems so.
well, go get cleaned up and we will proceed with the weddin'...
i got to ask you and martin to ride to the state capitol with me, ethan.
this an invite to a necktie party, reverend?
captain...nope, would not say that... likely you had your reasons for killin' futterman...probably needed killin'...i'm speaking as a ranger now, not as a reverend...fact that all three was shot in the back is the only thing that is raised some question -- that and a missin' gold piece known to have been on him just prior to his demise.
you are goin' if the captain says you are goin'...
now, now...let's not grow dis- putatious...
is captain clayton here, reverend?
I am clayton.
colonel greenhill's compliments, sir. the colonel wishes to know how soon you could put a company of rangers in the field, fully armed and...
hold on, son...who's this colonel greenhill you are talking about?
why colonel greenhill is colonel greenhill, sir...commanding officer, fifth u.s. cavalry...i'm lieutenant greenhill, sir.
oh...now what is this your pa wants to know?
my pa wants to know...colonel greenhill wants to know how soon you could put a company of your rangers in the field, fully armed and equipped, for joint punitive action against the comanches.
joint action?
yes sir...we've received information about a band of comanches under a chief named scar...
and what makes you think he is in this territory?
yesterday, one of our patrols picked up a man claims he was a prisoner with scar till only two days ago... he talks crazy but i brought him along...says he lives here...keeps mentioning a rocking chair.
come f'r my rockin' chai'...ole mose.
where is scar, mose...scar?
mose...try to remember!...you were in scar's camp...
ay-eh...made out i was crazy...  ate dirt...chewed grass...i fooled 'em, ethan!...an' i got away...
scar! where is he holed in?
seven fingers...ay-eh...seven...
you tell your pa a company of rangers -- all fourteen of 'em -- fully armed an' equipped will be in the field by daylight...headin' for the south end of the malapai. if he can catch up with us, well an' good...
but...but captain, we can not possibly take the field tomorrow...for your own protection...
sonny, yonder's a passel of murderers, complete with texican scalps an' white girl captive...you want to protect us, you just get out of our way...now skedaddle!
ethan, you an' martin are hereby appointed civilian scouts -- without pay...charlie, hightail it to head- quarters an' spread the word...
yes sir...
martie...don't go! not this time.
you crazy?
it is too late...she's a woman grown now...
i got to fetch her home...
fetch what home?...the leavin's of comanche bucks -- sold time an' again to the highest bidder?...with savage brats of her own, most like?...
laurie! shut your mouth!
do you know what ethan will do if he has a chance?...he'll put a bullet in her brain! and i tell you martha would want him to!
only if I am dead!
we can get within 500 yards...there's a hogback to the south.
how many, would you say?
enough to go around...i'd say about a dozen apiece...mount 'em up!
wait! we go chargin' in, they will kill her...and you know it.
it is what I am countin' on.
i know you are...only it am not goin' to be that way...she's alive...
livin' with comanches am not bein' alive...
she is alive...better she is alive and livin' with comanches than her brains bashed out...
now son, it is a bitter thing to say, but there is more than your sister at stake here.
there sure is! I am going to tell you somethin'...i was not going to speak of it...but I will tell you now. did you notice them scalps strung on scar's lance?  did you see the third scalp from the point of the lance? long... wavy hair...
i saw it...and do not try to tell me it was aunt martha's or lucy's...
you do not remember it, but i remember. that was your mother's scalp!
i did not want to tell you...but maybe it is your right to know.
now mount up, son...
i say no!
go ahead, son...but at the first alarm, we are comin' in -- and we am not goin' to have time to pick and choose our targets when we do...
what in...?
captain clayton...captain!
go on! whyn't you have your bugler sound the charge while you are at it??
sir?
never mind...your pa know you are out here?
yes, sir...troop's about ten miles back...the colonel sent me looking for you...
well you found me...good work, son...good work.
if there is anything i can do, sir...
god forbid...no, son, you flog on back and tell your pa where we are at...and where he is at...
but he knows that, sir...can't i stay, sir?
all right...but keep your eye on me, boy...i'm the hard case you are up against here -- not these childish savages...if you do not hear me first time i holler, you better read my mind...i do not aim to raise no two hollers on any subject at hand...
yes, sir...
