happy hanukkah tikva.
happy hanukkah morty.
okay, what is the information?
she said to remind you that you are having shabat dinner by her tomorrow and also to remind you to bring the manischewitz.
anything else?
yeah, I am going to be out of the office from 1:30 to 3:00 on sunday. i have a terrible yeast infection and i need to see my gynecologist.
but we are not open on sundays.
i understand that. i just thought that you might want to know.
I will be in my office.
mr. jefferson carver?
please, call me mordechai.
from the way she carried herself i could tell she would been around the block a few times...
sorry I am late. traffic was a pisher, and I have been circling the block for the past half hour looking for parking. what are you listening to?
client notes. sorry.  what can i do for you?
my name is esther. chief bloomenbergensteinenthal from the jewish defense league desperately needs to speak with you.
how is old chief bloomenbergensteinenthal? is he still shtooping every girl he can get his hands on?
actually, his days of marital infidelity have long since past. now he just shtoops my mother exclusively.
your mother? oh. whoops.
mordechai, santa claus has been rubbed out by his son damian. the man's a demon. there is no telling what this new anti semitic psycho santa is capable of.
I am sorry to hear about santa. he was a good friend, but my days...
shabat shalom mama. i brought some manischewitz. the black label.
i can see. and you also brought a nice girl to come eat by us.
so. do you have a name?
it is esther.
from the story of purim.  well, now that we are all acquainted, let's sit down and start the sabbath.
oy vey, I am stuffed.
i do not think i could eat another latke if you paid me.
you like my mordechai, yes?
he's...he's very nice.  but mrs. carver, the fate of hanukkah rests solely in his hands. please, you have to help me.
hanukkah, shmanukkah. it is not even one of the high holidays. what concerns me more is that my boychick is almost thirty, and has yet to settle down with a nice jewish girl.  I will make you a deal. I will help you with your little hanukkah problem if you help me with my mordechai.
what do you want me to do?
he works too much. god forbid he should have a nice jewish girl come eat by him once in a while. take his mind off his work. maybe a blowjob here and there.
mordechai. do you love your mother?
mom, stop with this already. of course i love you. you are my mother.
mom, i have a real job. i do good things for this community. i help people.
when i play bridge with all the girls, everyone has what to talk about with their sons. they show pictures. their sons are lawyers and doctors and rabbis. why can not i show a picture?
so do not show a picture.
you know my friend maureen? her son, the investment banker? he paid for her entire retirement in boca raton. what a mench he is. instead of schleping to save hanukkah, god forbid you should go back to business school and get an mba. maybe then you could send me to boca, too.
i do not want to argue with you. let's just eat in peace.
no. no. we are going to argue. and you know what mom? I am going to save hanukkah just to spite you. and when my face is all over the television. when your friends are opening their hanukkah gifts next year, do not mention it to them, okay? i would not want you to have to show my picture.
do what you must.
let's let your tuchus breathe.
mom, why do not you put that cat out of its misery?
alright mordechai, now that we are alone i just want to say that I am not happy about this. i do not want a repeat of that incident in the west bank.
i got the job done did not i? i did what i had to do.
a settlement completely demolished, ten smashed army jeeps, four dead arabs. g dash d damn it, hammer! you think you are above the ten commandments? just find santa claus and bring him back to us. no heroics, got it?
hey, it is your bar mitzvah. I am just readin' the torah portion.
i guess i could be chalant about it, but then again I am not even sure if that is a word. listen chief, we could stand around arguing all day, but i got to case to crack.
what is your first move?
I am going to pay a visit to the k.l.f. see if they have got the 411 on santa's location. I will check in with you when i know more.
so morde-chai, tell me, what brings your bad self down to the klf?
I am back on the job for the jdl. you hear about that crazy white boy who took over as santa?
oh, most definitely. got the brothers here in full alert mode.
actually, i...i don't. what does that mean?
oh. it means that santa's going to fuck hanukkah's shit up.
not if i can help it. you got any information for me?
you watch your back hammer. hanukkah might just be his first move. for all we know kwanzaa could be next. there is a lot of brothers counting on you. if you fail...
okay, look. I am going to work really, really hard on this one. but, please stop with the pressure. I am already tense as it is.
it is cool. it is cool. aveenooh shalom alechem, brother.
so, what is our first plan of attack santa?
while i was in taiwan negotiating the solution to our labor problems, i came across a factory that illegally manufactures the most addictive, jewish pride weakening substance on the planet. i bought the entire plant.
what should i charge?
oh, that is the beauty of it. these are free samples.
so what is in the boxes? heroin? cocaine?
worse.
bootleg copies of the frank capra classic, 'it's a wonderful life.'
that is some cold shit.
chief, it is me. listen carefully. i need for the worldwide jewish media conspiracy to mass produce video copies of every hollywood movie ever made featuring a positive jewish protagonist as its lead.
you mean you want us to make copies of yentl, fiddler on the roof, and chaim potok's the chosen?
that will work. get them out to the jewish community stat. we got an epidemic on our hands.
it was a trap. I am back at square one.
well, then I have got good news for you. we just got word that he will be making an appearance at the mall of america today. I am sending esther to meet you there at once.
good thinking. we will disguise ourselves as a gentile couple to pass undetected. now that he thinks I am dead, this should be a piece of homentashen.
one last thing hammer. you take care of yourself. the...
any sign of santa?
he must be behind that curtain. relax. we are undercover. we need to give off the appearance of calm. you see esther, the trick to undercover work is to try and blend in. act as a gentile would.
what are we going to do? we are at least an hour from the front.
c'mon follow me.
sorry folks, i do not do couples.
if you keep your mouth shut and come with me, you will not get hurt.
excuse me? do i know you, friend? take a look around you. do you even know who i am?
let me guess, you are the goy who stole hanukkah.
the hebrew hammer! you are alive.
what is your shpiel, santa?
whoa, whoa there. c'mon mordechai, is this any way to treat an old family friend? let's cut out all the unpleasantness. i admit, i went way overboard with the whole hanukkah thing. let me make it up to you. how about a peace offering?  girls.
what are you doing?
I am just calming the kiddies.  there is no need to worry about santa. he is just having a peaceful, adult conversation with his nice jewish friend, the hebrew hammer.
hey everybody. how is it hangin'?
in fact, he is just informed me that he personally plans on cancelling christmas this year.
that got annoying fairly quickly.
yeah, no kidding.
so, now what?
now we wait for santa to make his next move.
want to get a drink?
sure. why not.
what was that!?
i said, do you come here often!?
what!?
i said, yeah, about once a week!
oh!
sorry. I am better with men.
maybe we should try a different kind of dancing.
you mean like disco dancing or doing the funky chicke...oh. i get it.
mordechai?
yes esther.
i want you to talk dirty to me.
oh. okay.
i want for our children to go to private schools and take music lessons. little abraham will go to stanford for college, batya will go ivy league, maybe vassar.
keep going.
afterwards they will make the decision as to whether or not they would like to continue their religious studies in israel. because, hey, after all we will have practiced the highly effective assertive democratic style of child rearing, sprinkled with a healthy dose of liberalism.
also, on a daily basis, i want you to tell me what to do, where to do it, and how i should live my life.
kiss me you semitic stud!
your mother was right. you do work too hard.
oh, she said that, did she? what else did mommy dearest have to say?
when did you guys have this conversation? when i was in the bathroom? what else did she have to say?
relax morty, i think your mom is wonderful. she cares so much about you. get this, while you were gone she said she would help me get you to work with the jdl if I would come eat by you once in awhile. like i needed any incentive to be with you. she is so...
oh my god. she is become my pimp. and she is whoring her bitch-son out to the highest bidder.
no. it is not like that. you are being completely neurotic. i was just playing along...
we do!
I am sorry esther, i just do not think we can see each other romantically anymore.
mordechai. thank god you are here.
what is up?
about an hour ago, we received this transmission from the north pole.
so, how was i?
it was good. very chilling, but you still got all the points across that we talked about.
i was not too over the top?
no, it was the perfect level.
thanks. oh, did i tell you. i picked up that new kc and the sunshine band record that you recommended. you were right, it is good.
looks like i got a plane to catch.
take esther with you, you will need the backup.
no way, it is too dangerous. besides, my days of hooking are over.
you okay?
no. I am airsick you asshole! where the hell did these reindeer learn to fly?
i do not know. why do not you ask them sir.
what are you doing here?
mordechai, i love you. i could not let you do this alone.
i love you too. I am sorry about freaking out yesterday. i was wrong.
i forgive you.
get off of me you cripple!
what are we going to do? he is got us on the ropes.
what is going on? why did he stop?
maybe he ran out of ammo.
take a look.
well, he is kinda just resting in the corner with his girlfriend.
resting?
what day is it?
it is friday.
you want me to be nice to him for no apparent reason whatsoever, buy him clothing he will never wear, and for just one day of the year pretend to forgive him for all the horrible things he did to me as a young boy when my mommy was not looking?
no dipshit, i want you to kill him.
esther!
mordechai!
so why the long face?
it is esther. santa's got her.
my esther! oh mordechai.
please. will you help me?
i love her sir. if i do not help you, i will not be able to make her my wife. mohammed ali paula abdul rahim has agreed to come with me to the north pole on a rescue mission.
there will not be any need for that sir.
hammer, the fate of my daughter rests solely in your hands.
i know sir. i will not let you down.
what is wrong with him?
he is still working out some identity issues.
it is going to be tough, but the back entrance looks like our best bet.
i wanted to ask you, how were you able to pinpoint the exact location of santa's workshop? we have been trying to gain that piece of surveillance for years.
cool. what is it do?
now this might get a bit technical, but try and stay with me. using a highly sophisticated connection of other computators, called the internet, i can access surveillance maps, villian biographical information, and even sports scores with a few simple keystrokes of this electronic typewriter.
man, that is far out! hey, the jets won!
but wait, there is more. with a few swift clicks of this hand-computer interface, commonly referred to as a mouse, i can download illicit pornographic material and even send it along to a friend via a cyber postal route known as e-mail.
porno? you are tellin' me that you can get porno on that thing?
oh yeah. take a look.
what are you doing?
just praying to god that we do not kill ourselves going over this wall.
wait! before we enter, you need to know that my research has determined that santa's compound is wired with the xp 2000 stereo type alarm system.
a stereo type alarm system?
take a look.
how do we bypass it?
the alarm will trigger if the system detects any non-w.a.s.p. tendencies inside the building. for example, if you were to dribble a basketball, or eat watermelon, or use the word dawg...that is, spelled with an aw as opposed to the letter o...within the confines of this workshop, the alarm would sound.
listen cat, I will have you know that i hate the taste of watermelon and am a terrible basketball player.
well that is good news for us. it means the system is outdated. this should be easy. c'mon.
what are you doing?
offscreen gunfire. that jewish atomic clock stuff ate up a lot of our budget.
where is my girlfriend santa?
i do not have to tell you anything hammer! you are going to have to kill me before i tell you!
i shlepped all the way to the north pole for this? i come to fight you, and you do not even put out anything to nosh on? what kind of arch nemesis are you?
hah! jewish guilt. well, it will not work on me hammer. I am too strong for it.
hammer, you alright?
everything's kosher. watch him for me.
esther!
mordechai!
you two know each other?
we go to the same temple.
...and the opportunity to help my brothers and sisters in the jewish community.
well I am just glad you are safe bubba shaina, and eating by your mother for shabos.
...and their children will all be able to eat latkes and spin dreidels, and light the menorah with the knowl...
...so you saved hanukkah mr. big shot. i mean, let's be honest mordechai, it is not even one of the high holidays.
well i have news for you mom. it is good enough...i'm good enough and i will not leave here until i hear you tell me...
mazel tov!
hello mazel tov! a boojee boojee boojee boo...
...i'm not finished yet, mom.
mom! we are eating!
what a good poop you made in your diaper mazel tov! that is right! mommy loves you! such a good boy you are!
well, for starters, we are going to honeymoon in boca for a week. and then, when we get back, morty's been talking about taking a stable, good paying job as a consultant for the jdl.
well, i could not be happier for the both of you.
