my god, why?! why did he do it?! things were going so well!
what am i a headshrinker? maybe the man was unhappy.
he did not look unhappy!
just got hired today!
terrific.
ya know, entry level!
tell me about it.
i got big ideas, though!
I am sure you do.
for instance, take a look at this sweet baby...
terrific.
so ya see, i will not be in the mailroom long.
nooo, i do not guess you will be.
how long've you been down here?
forty-eight years...
...what's your pleasure, buddy?
forty-fourth floor, and it is very --
forty-four, the top brass floor say, buddy! what takes fifty years to get up to the top floor and thirty seconds to get down?
i --
waring hudsucker! na-ha-ha-ha-ha! say, buddy!
say, buddy! who is the most liquid businessman on the street?
well, i --
waring hudsucker! na-ha-ha-ha-ha! say, buddy! when is the sidewalk fully dressed? when it is 'wearing' hudsucker! na-ha-ha-ha!
...who let you in?
i --
tell him I will be right there...  well, what is it?
i --
you, maybe you are the company's biggest moron. we can not use morris, he is been with us too long, he is a nice guy, too many friends. matter of fact, why do not you fire him. no -- scratch that; I will fire him.  ...make it fast, make it fast.
you --
...you know, for kids! which is perfect for hudsucker -- not that i claim to be any great genius; like they say, inspiration is 99 percent perspiration, and in my case I would say it is at least twice that, but i got to tell ya, mr. mussburger, sir, this sweet baby --
wait a minute!
...education, were you?
well, I am a college graduate --
all right, but you did not excel in your studies...?
well, i made the dean's list.
hmmm.
at the muncie college of business administration.
sure, sure. and did your classmates there call you 'jerk' or...  ...'schmoe'?
...'shnook'? 'dope'? 'dipstick'? 'lamebrain'?
no, sir.
not even behind your back?
sir! they voted me most likely to succeed!
you are fired.
but, sir! --
get your feet off that desk.
but --
get out of my sight.
my god! the bumstead contracts!!
oh my god, sir!
you nitwit! i worked for three years on this deal!
oh my god, sir!
why you nitwit. you almost destroyed the most sensitive deal of my career!
oh my god, sir!
not that way! through the door!
but, sir!
up on your feet! we do not crawl at hudsucker industries!
sir, my leg is on fire!
my god! the bumstead contracts!
oh my god, sir!
i tell ya the guy's a phony.
phony, huh?
as a three-dollar bill.
sez who?
sez me! amy archer. why is he an idea man -- because hudsucker says he is? what are his ideas? why will not they let anyone interview him?...
...on payday! the only story here is how this guy made a monkey out of you, al.
yeah, well, monkey or not I am still editor of this rag. amy, i thought you were doing that piece on the f.b.i. -- j. edgar hoover: when will he marry?
i filed it yesterday.
well, do a follow-up: hoover: hero or mama's boy? the rest of you bums get up off your brains and get me that idea man story!
that reminds me, mr. mu... uh, sid. i never did give you that--
lobby. we have not got all day.
my pleasure, sir.
roast tom turkey. gee, I am hungry too --
relax, norville. it is only natural in a period of transition for the more nervous element to run for cover.
okay, sid. like i said, you are the expert, but --
...you do not happen to remember the plan i outlined to you the day i set fire to your off -- uh, the day i was promoted?
i do remember and i was impressed. anyway, that is all forgotten now. driver!
thank you, sid, but the reason i mention it is, it would require such a small capital investment -- again, you are the expert here --
damnit, where is my car!
-- but there is such an enormous potential profit-wise given the demographics -- baby boom -- discretionary income in the burgeoning middle class --
finally.
-- so if you think it is appropriate, I would like to bounce the idea off a few people at lunch --
i got gas, bennie.
yeah, tell me about it.
no kiddin', bennie. i got gas.
ya get the special?
fah from it...
...enter the dame.
there is one in every story.
ten bucks says she is looking for a handout.
twenty bucks says not here she do not find one.
she is looking for her mark.
she finds him.
she sits down.
...and awduhs a light lunch.
she looks in her purse...
...no money.
the mark notices.
...he's not noticing, benny.
maybe he is wise.
he do not look wise.
plan two: here come the waterworks.
yellowstone.
old faithful.
hello, niagara.
he notices.
she is got other problems, of course...
...her mother needs an operation...
...adenoids.
no, bennie: lumbago.
maybe he is wise.
he do not look wise.
she isn't!
she is!
she is good, bennie.
she is damn good, lou.
I am sorry we had to take the stairs. it was just that horrible little elevator boy...
not at all. you are light as a feather.
the couch, please.
hungry, anyway.
i do not want to bore you with all the sordid details of my life; it is not a happy story...
what a horrible little person.
oh, buzz is pretty harmless, really --
at any rate i arrived in town not ten days ago, full of dreams and aspirations, anxious to make my way in the world --
a little naive perhaps but -- thank you -- armed with determination, a solid work ethic, and an indomitable belief in the future --
i myself --
cigarette?
no thank you. seek and ye shall find, work and ye shall prosper -- these were the watch words of my education, the ethics of my tender years --
-- these were the values that were instilled in me while i was growing up in a little town you have probably never heard of --
mind if i join you?
you are from muncie?!
why yes, do you know it?
...a muncie girl! talk about the cat's pyjamas! tell you what, amy. I am going to cancel the rest of my appointments this afternoon and get you a job here at the hud.
oh, no, really, i --
do not bother to thank me, it is the easiest thing in the world. matter of fact, i know where a vacancy just came up.
...this'll only take a moment.
yeah?
good afternoon to ya, this is norville barnes --
barnes! where the hell have you been! and where is my voucher?!
...well, I am not sure where i --
i need that voucher! i told you a week ago it was important!
but look, I am president of the company now and i --
i do not care if you are president of the company! i need that voucher! now!
oh, of all the foolish... listen, do you take shorthand? are you familiar with the mimeograph machine?
of course -- i went to the muncie, uh, secretarial polytechnic!
-- a muncie girl! can you beat that!
well, i just do not know how to thank you, mr. barnes --
please! norville!
and is this guy from chumpsville?! i pulled the old mother routine --
adenoids?
lumbago.
I am telling you, smitty, the board of hudsucker is up to something --
yeah.
about seven minutes.
yeah, i was all wet about your idea man... well, thanks for being so generous... it is human, and you are divine... no, he is no faker. he is the 100% real mccoy beware-of- imitations genuine article: the guy is a real moron --
I am tellin' ya, this guy's just the patsy and I am going to find out what for. there is a real story, smitty, some kind of plot, a setup, a cabal, a -- oh, and say, did i tell ya?!
he did not offer you money.
a sawbuck!
ten dollars? let's grab a highball!
on norville barnes!
...did you happen to see the front page of today's manhattan argus?
well, i... did not bother to read the article. i did not think the picture did you justice.
the picture was fine! it is what that knuckle-headed dame wrote underneath! of all the irresponsible... amy, take this down: dear miss archer. i call you 'miss' because you seem to have 'missed' the boat completely on this one! how on earth would you know whether I am an imbecile when you do not even have the guts to come in here and interview me man to man! no, change 'guts' to 'courage.' no, make it 'common decency.' these wild speculations about my intelligence --
-- or lack thereof?
-- these preposterous inventions, would be better suited to the pages of amazing tales magazine. if the editors of the manhattan argus see fit to publish the rantings of a disordered mind, perhaps they will see fit to publish this letter! but i doubt it. i most seriously doubt it. as i doubt also that you could find a home at amazing tales, a periodical which i have enjoyed for many years. yours sincerely, et cetera.
is that all, mr. barnes?
...well, you know me, amy, at least better than that that dame does. do you think I am an imbecile?
I am sure i --
go on, tell the truth; i trust you and i put a lot of stock in your opinion.
well, i --
oh sure, you are biased -- you are a fellow muncian. but would an imbecile come up with this?
...you know! for kids!
...why do not i just type this up...
aww, naw, amy, that will not be necessary. i should not send it; she is just doing her job, i guess.
well, i do not know; maybe she does deserve it. maybe she should have come in to face you man to man.
well, she probably had a deadline...
sure, but -- she could still have gotten your side for the record!
well, it is done now -- what is the use of grousing about it. forget the letter, amy, i just had to blow off some steam...
confused?
yeah, you know, probably one of these fast-talking career gals, thinks she is one of the boys. probably is one of the boys, if you know what i mean.
I am quite sure i do not know what you mean.
yeah, you know. suffers from one of these complexes they have nowadays. seems pretty obvious, does not it? she is probably very unattractive and bitter about it.
oh, is that it!
yeah, you know. probably dresses in men's clothing, swaps drinks with the guys at the local watering hole, and hobnobs with some smooth talking heel in the newsroom named biff or smoocher or...
smitty.
exactly. and i bet she is ugly. real ugly. otherwise, why would not they print her picture next to her byline?
maybe she puts her work ahead of her personal appearance.
i bet that is exactly what she tells herself! but you and i both know she is just a dried-up bitter old maid. say, how about you and i grab a little dinner and a show after work? i was thinking maybe the king and i --
who are you? how did you know who i am?
ah guess ole moses knows jes about ever'thing, leastways if it concerns hudsuckuh.
but -- who are you -- what d'you do here?
ah keeps the old circle turning -- this old clock needs plenty o' care. time is money, miss archuh, and money -- it drives that old global economy and keeps big daddy earth a-spinnin' on 'roun'. ya see, without that capital fo'mation --
yeah, yeah. say, you will not tell anyone about me, will you?
i do not tell no one nothin' lessen they ask. thatches am not ole moses' way.
so if you know everything about hudsucker, tell me why the board decided to make norville barnes president.
well, that even surprised ole moses at fust. i did not think the board was that smart.
that smart?!
but then i figured it out: they did it 'cause they figured young norville for an imbecile. like some othuh people ah know.
why on earth would they want a nitwit to be president?
'cause they's little pigglies! they's tryin' to inspire panic, make that stock git cheap so's they can snitch it all up fo' themselves! but norville, he is got some tricks up his sleeve, he does...
...but i guess you do not really know him any better than that board does, do ya, miss archuh?
well, maybe i --
an' only some kind a knucklehead thinks she knows things 'bout things she, uh -- when she don't, uh -- how did that go?
it is hardly the same --
why you do not even know y'own self -- you am not exactly the genuine article are you, miss archuh?
well, in connection with my job, sometimes i have to go undercover as it were --
i do not mean that! why you pretendin' to be such a hard old sourpuss! am not never going to make you happy! never made warin' happy.
I am happy enough.
okay, miss archuh.  ...i got gears to see to.
I am plenty happy!
...hello?
them po' young folks. looks like norville's in fo' the same kind o' heartache old warin' had. but then, she never axed me 'bout dat...
i can not print this!
why not, it is all true! the board is using this poor guy! they are depressing the stock so they can buy it cheap!
it is pure speculation! why, they would have my butt in a satchel!
old satchel-butt...
i know they are going to buy that stock --
you do not know anything! fact is they have not bought it! the stock is cheap, archer! what are they waiting for?
i do not know...
muncie.
whatever. that is what sells newspapers.
I have got an even hotter story -- the sap from the city desk.
watch it, archer --
it is about a dimwitted editor who --
-- so we would gone out to the hamptons and the garden was in positive ruins!
that must have been quite a disappointment, mrs. mussburger.
disappointment? j'etais destroyee! i was in bed for a week! positively sick with fury! i called in the gardener and said, 'monsieur gonzalez, either those azaleas come up next spring or you are terminee!
I am brushing up on my french with the most charming man, pierre of fifth avenue. do you know him?
i have not had --
sidney and i are planning a trip to paris and points continental -- are not we, dear?
well, frankly, i...
you have a charming wife, mr. muss -- uh, sid.
...what happened?
oh. nothing, really, just... the more timid investors are no longer running for cover.
let me look.
sid found me the icepack.
let me hold it, or you will have a real shiner.
thanks. people seem to be pretty hot over this imbecile story.
...i'm sorry.
oh, it is not your fault, amy. you are the one person who is been standing by me through all this.
norville... there is something i have to tell you. you see, I am not really a secretary.
i know that, amy.
...you do?
i understand that you are not very skilled yet in the secretarial arts. I am not that skilled as president. oh sure, i put up a big front --  -- not that everyone's buying it.
i believe in you, norville -- at least i believe in your... intentions --
oh, i do not blame them, really. i guess i have sort of made a mess of things. these folks have to protect their investment. most of them are very nice people --
norville, you can not trust people here like you did in muncie...
...certain people are --
didja ever go to the top of old man larson's feed tower and look out over the town?
...huh?
you know, on farm route 17.
oh yes! in muncie!
no! in vidalia! farm route 17!
uh -- yes. seventeen. yes, i -- well no, i -- i never really... there is a place i go now, the cutest little place near my apartment in greenwich village. it is called ann's 440. it is a beatnik bar.
you do not say.
yes, you can get carrot juice or italian coffee, and the people there -- well, none of them quite fit in. you would love it -- why do not you come there with me -- they are having a marathon poetry reading on new year's eve. i go every year.
every year?
well -- this year -- if it is good i plan to make it a tradition. uh, my it certainly is beautiful --
...the people look like ants.
well, the hindus say -- and the beatniks also -- that in the next life some of us will come back as ants. some will be butterflies. others will be elephants or creatures of the sea.
what a beautiful thought.
what do you think you were in your previous life, amy?
oh, i do not know. maybe i was just a fast-talking career gal who thought she was one of the boys --
oh no, amy, pardon me for saying so but i find that very farfetched.
norville, there really is something i have to tell you --
that kind of person would come back as a wildebeest, or a warthog. no, i think it more likely that you were a gazelle, with long, graceful legs, gamboling through the underbrush. perhaps we met once, a chance encounter in a forest glade. i must have been an antelope or an ibex. what times we must have had -- foraging together for sustenance, picking the grubs and burrs from one another's coats. or perhaps we simply touched our horns briefly and went our separate ways...
i wish it were that simple, norville. i wish i was still a gazelle, and you were an antelope or an ibex.
well, can i at least call you deer? ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! seriously, amy, the whole thing is what your beatnik friends call 'karma' -- the great circle of life, death and rebirth.
yeah, i think I have heard of that. what goes around comes around.
that is it. a great wheel that gives us each what we deserve...
oh, norville --
kiss me once, amy! kiss me once for luck!
sure, norville, sure...
...congratulations, kid, you have really outdone yourself. reinvented the wheel. I am going to recommend to the board that we proceed immediately with this, uh... with the, uh... that the dingus be mass-produced with all deliberate speed. of course, as president of the company the ultimate decision is yours.
well... I am for it...
we will call it the flying donut!
the dancing dingus!
the jerky circle!
something short.
sharp.
snappy.
with a little jazz.
the shazzammeter!
the hipster!
the daddy-oh!
the circle-o'-gaiety!
the hoopsucker!
the hudswinger!
the hoop-dee-doo!
the hudsucker hoop!
nobody told me! nobody told me! you sold all of our stock?
we dumped the whole load. now quit showboating, addison --
i had twenty thousand shares! I would be a millionaire now!
sure, sure, we would all be millionaires. there is no point in looking back. at the time, stilson thought dumping our position would panic the market, further depress the stock -- then we would buy it all back, and more of course, once it got cheap --
cheap! cheap! it is never been more valuable! and I am ruined! ruined!
for pete's sake, norville!
oh! hello, amy -- was it -- i thought she said, mamie --
never mind about that...
...you know what those nincompoops in the boardroom are doing?
well, i would not call them nincom --
they are going to discharge eight percent of the work force here at hudsucker. why, in new york alone that means eighteen hundred people out of work, people with wives and children and families --
well yes, we are pruning away some of the dead wood, but if --
you mean you know about this?
know about it? you think the board would do anything like this without my authorization? no, this was my idea from the start.
your i --
we have to be realistic, amy. you know things have slowed down a little here at hudsucker --
you are awful kind to yourself, norville barnes -- the fact is you have slowed down, sitting up here like a sultan, not doing a lick of work! why you know it is ideas that are the lifeblood of industry and you have not come up with one since the hoop and the reason's plain to see! you have forgotten what made your ideas exciting for you in the first place -- it was not for the fame and the wealth and the mindless adulation of -- would you get out of here?!
...i've been watching you, norville barnes, even though you have been trying to avoid me --
now, aim --
shutup! -- and do not think i have not noticed how you have changed. i used to think you were a swell guy -- well, to be honest i thought you were an imbecile --
now, aim --
shutup! -- but then i figured out you were a swell guy, a little slow maybe, but a swell guy! well, maybe you are not so slow, but you are not so swell either and it looks like you are an imbecile after --
now, aim --
shutup! -- after all! you have not talked to me for a week and now I am going to say my piece. I have got a prediction for you, norville barnes: i predict that since you have decided to dedicate yourself to greed and sloth and everything bad, you are going to lose all the good things that your good ideas brought you. you are going to throw them all away chasing after money and ease and the respect of a board that would not give you the time of day if you... if you...
worked in a watch factory?
now, amy --
consider this my resignation --
oh, uh... buzz... is it important?
i like to think so! it is this little idea i been working on!
...why, this is worthless.
huh?! but, buddy --
this is the most idiotic thing I have ever seen in my life!
yeah, but, buddy --
nobody wants a hare-brained product like this! ya see, buzz, it lacks the creative spark, the unalloyed genius that made, uh...
...say, the hula hoop such a success.
but, buddy --
and what do you mean barging in here and taking up my valuable time! I have got a company to run here --
but, buddy, you were --
-- i can not have every deadbeat on the hudsucker payroll pestering me with their idiotic brainwaves!
geez, I am sorry, buddy --
an example must be made!
wuddya mean, buddy?
fired! you are fired! is that plain enough for you, buster!
awwww, buddy --
and do not call me buddy! out of here! out!
aw, please, sir -- this job, it is all i got!
get up!
i understand if ya do not like the buzz-sucker! just lemme keep my job, I am prayin' to ya!
we do not crawl at hudsucker industries! get out of my office! leave your uniform in the locker room!
I am sorry, buddy... I am sorry...
buzz... off! ha-ha-ha-ha!
sorry I am late, sid. that back nine at riverdale is really murder.
sure, sure, it is a tough course. well thanks for coming, kid. i thought the board room would be a swell place to chat undisturbed -- it seems we are having some security problems here at the hud.
ya do not say.
mm. ordinarily i would not bother you with it, but -- this is embarrassing, kid -- it seems to concern you directly.
how is that, sid?
it is not important in itself -- some elevator boy you fired came to me claiming you would stolen the idea for the, uh, the hoop dingus from him --
huh?! he -- no, i -- he is just -- maybe i was a little rough on the boy, ya see i --
ah forget it, kid, ya do not have to explain to me. he is a little person. he is nothing. like i say, ordinarily it would just be a nuisance. but it seems -- well, there was a spy in the company...
you can not print that!
he grins wolfishly.
-- and she is dynamite!
but, al, it is the bunk! norville showed me his design for the whatsit the day i met him! why buzz could not have invented it -- look at the man -- he is an imbecile!
archer, you are a broken record. fact is gunderson did design it -- apparently he is some kind of prodigy --
says who?!
yeah, and I will bet his initials are sidney j. mussburger!
you have lost it, aim. you have gone soft by the looks of it -- soft on the dummy from dubuque --
muncie!
whatever! it is no dig on you, archer, but this story is hot and you are no longer on top of it. why, it is the scoop of the century -- the other papers will not have the gunderson dope 'til tomorrow -- the allemeinischer zeitung, le figaro, they will be choking on our dust come mornin' --
you are fools, both of you! it is obvious they are out to crucify norville! they are trying to destroy him!
amy -- take a break. you have worked hard on this story -- heck, you broke it for us! but it is passed you by and smith here has taken up the slack.
i want a martini! it is new year's eve and i want a martini!
daddy, it is like i been tellin' ya --
i thought you served misfits here!
yeah, daddy, that is a roger, but we do not sell alcohol.
what kind of bar is it if ya can not get a martini?!
it is a juice and coffee bar, man, like i been tellin' ya --
i want a martini! on this bar, right now! I have had a martini in every bar on the way down here, and I am not about to --
martinis are for squares, man.
...you son of a --
norville!
huh?!
...oh, it is you! lookin' for a nitwit to buy your lunch?!
oh norville, i --
barman! set'm up, fella!
norville, I am sorry, i... i tried to tell you... so many times... it is hard to admit when you have been wrong. if you could just... find it in your heart to -- to give me another chance --
hey! where is that martini?!
just give me another chance, norville -- i can help you fight this thing. i know this last story was a lie! we can prove it! we can --
aww, what is the difference. I am all washed up... when you are dead, ya stay dead... hey, fella!
well that just about does it! I have seen norville barnes, the young man in a big hurry, and I have seen norville barnes the self-important heel, but I have never seen norville barnes the quitter, and i do not like it!
-- uh... buzz, I am sorry, i -- buzz, you got to forgive me! i should not a fired you, i did not know what i was doing! i was a little funny in the head, i --
aw, buddy, i do not care about that.
...you don't?
nah, that is all forgotten.
...it is?
sure, mr. muss -- uh, sid said i could have the job back.
absolutely, buzz, I am glad he --
but he told me you stole that swell hoop idea from me. what gives!
but, buzz --
say, that was a swell idea!
but, buzz, you know i never --
and sid says you stole it!
but buzz --
...jesus christopher -- that smarts... where was i? oh yeah, the board. i guess sidney's been puttin' the screws to ya, huh, norman?
norville.
mm. well, say what you like about the man's ethics, he is a balls-to- the-wall businessman. beat ya any way he can. straight for the jugular. very effective.
yes sir...
anyway. any particular reason you did not give him my blue letter? i mean, jesus, norman, just a dying man's last words and wishes, no big deal.
huh? oh, geez, mr. hudsucker, i apologize, there was an awful lot of excitement and i guess i must have mislaid --
it is sittin' in your apron pocket, right where you left it. imbecile.
oh, geez.
failure to deliver a blue letter is grounds for dismissal.
geez, i --
ah, it is new year's, I am not going to add to your woes. I am just saying.
yessir.
well, why do not ya read it.
sir?
yeah, go ahead. might learn somethin'.
yes sir...
'from the desk of waring hudsucker. to. sidney j. mussburger. regarding. my demise. dear sid. by the time you read this, i will have joined the organization upstairs -- an exciting new beginning. i will retain fond memories of the many years you and i -- '
yeah, yeah, it is the standard resignation boilerplate -- go down to the second paragraph.
'many years, uh... i know that you will be wondering why i have decided to move on, ending my tenure at hudsucker, and here on earth. you will be thinking, why now, when things are going so well? granted, from the standpoint of our balance sheet and financials, sure, sure, we are doing fine. however, sid. these things have long since ceased to give me pleasure. i look at myself now and no longer see the idealistic young man who started this company. now i see only an empty shell whom others call a 'success.' how has this come to pass? when and why did i trade all of my hopes, dreams and aspirations, for the emptiness of power and wealth? what the heck have i done?
'...and so, sid, the future does not belong to such as i -- nor even you. we have made our compromises with time. the future belongs to the young, who may more energetically wage the battle against corruption. accordingly, in the spirit of hope, and the ringing in of the new, i hereby bequeath my entire interest in the company, and my seat on the board, to whomever is hudsucker's most recent employee at the time of my demise. i know this will disappoint you -- you, sid, who have served so diligently and for so long. but --'
-- tough titty toenails!
...yeah, go ahead.
'...but sid, let me urge you to work closely with the new president, and to keep giving hudsucker industries all your energies -- but not your soul. for while we must strive for success, we must not worship it. long live the hud. waring hudsucker...'
what the heck's she doin', lou?
what the heck they doin'?
you know what they are doin' now, lou.
this i know, benny.
this you are familia' with.
...geez.
...geez.
...it's the most beautiful t'ing i ever saw.
it is the most beautiful t'ing i ever saw.
