it may sound like music to her -- i can do better with my teeth in a cold shower.  click  click  click.
she is a local. when the dudes come out to new mexico, they went to wallow in latin glamour. this is a bad town for blondes.
yes. so I have noticed. jerry's noticed - he will come up with something.
you think be's pretty nice, do not you?
why not? he is a good press agent and a good friend. besides, we have shared a lot of headaches
you are lucky. i wish he would front page for me.
maybe. for three years I have sung in rats' nests, while jerry pounded his feet off and his brains out -- trying to get me a real chance. we are due for a little luck!
i mean you being a star and me being just a cigarette girl.
i know. i know. you have got the talent. i got the breaks.
get it out of here!
kiki -- he will not hurt you. there is nothing to be afraid of.
makes no difference. get him out!
listen, kicks, you will never guess what I have cooked up this tine...
that is easy. me.
i thought -- is kiki just going to walk on that floor tonight walk out cold before a bunch of gawks who think a spanish twirler is the greatest thing in life. no. not my favorite client. she is going to make an entrance this town will never forget!
on his back, i suppose.
no. i thought that might be just a little corny. i want you to lead him in on a leash.
you are too good to me.
look, kicks, have i ever done anything to hurt you?
no - not yet.
and i never will- you know what is between us  we are a thing but this is serious competition.
get it out of here!
kiki - he will not hurt you. there is nothing to be afraid of.
makes no difference.  get him out.
listen, kicks, you will never guess what I have cooked up this time.
that is easy. me.
i thought - is kiki just going to walk on that floor tonight walk out cold before a bunch of gawks who think a spanish twirler is the greatest thing in life. no. not my favorite client. she is going to make an entrance  this town will never forget.
on his back, i suppose.
no. i thought that might be just a little corny.  i want you to lead him in on a leash.
you are too good to me.
look, kicks, how long have we known each other?
this is l939. can not you subtract?
almost three years, is not it? and have i ever done anything to hurt you?
no  not yet.
and i never will -- you know what is between us - we are a thing -- but this is serious -- big competition.
clo-clo?
i thought you might strut this kitten in right in the middle of her act.
and if you have got cold feet honey, ill take over for you. that red dress of yours fits just perfect on me.
i bet you try on my coffin some day -- i hope it "fits just perfect."
you look swell in that threealarm number --
the red dress?  no. my black one. then I will be just like him.
are you all right?
now look what you have done.
suppose i slip them a few bucks  for the funeral expenses.
do not be soft.
you can go now, manning. there is no way we can hold you legally responsible.
thanks, sheriff.
i have not done any posse work since last time i rode with toni mix at the old bijou theatre -- aged six, if you are interested,
go on foot.
it is not for me.  I am literally and figuratively a tenderfoot.
i suppose he was trying to make me feel bad.
and i suppose you do not feel bad!
who was the other man?
i do not know  a witness. he seemed to know something about animals -- you know -- expert testimony.
what did he have to do - look at the body?
we all, had to look at the body. it was awful, kiki -- awful!
it is a blackcard and bad card, but not the card of the cat - not the card of fourfooted things.
i saw teresa. maybe i was the last to see her except perhaps her mamacita and her little brother. i was going past --
) they buried teresa today and they were hunting the leopard again -- out in the country this time. but they did not get him.
they are fools. why do not they let charlie how-come hunt it alone. he is an indian.
all men are fools. they like to make a big show - shout and hunt --
what did they say before the bad card came up?
you will meet a rich man and he will give, you money.
you and your cards. meet a rich man! i look for them with money. what rich man has not money. and for what was i born if it was not for money? you are not telling me anything.
watch and see, a day or a week - but certainly this month -- you will have money from a man and then-
well, does everybody love us now? you have been gone long enough to softsoap twenty editors!
yeah.
and did you find the leopard?
it must be the altitude  you, bucking around the countryside with a lot of bootandsaddle boys --
the whole town's in a state, kiki doors locked, people huddling together like scared sheep nobody on the streets at night
our first real break -- and we throw wild animals at the audience
forget it. I am buying a drink for a fellow who was on the posse with me, a nice guy. come along he will get a great kick out of meeting you.
who is he?
you remember the fellow this morning -- galbraith. you have got time before the supper show.
as long as my feet held out.
and not a sign of the leopard?
jerry told me you were an expert with animals, mr. galbraith. could not you tell where it went?
to know where that leopard went -  I am afraid you would have to be a leopard and think like a leopard. i was a naturalist. that hardly qualifies me as an expert in hunting down lost leopards. i used to teach zoology in a little freshwater college back east. i gave that up.
what do you do now?
there is a little museum here in town. they have hired me to run it, we have some interesting exhibits of indian arts and crafts. it is fun -- and i like living here in new mexico.
why did you give up teaching?
various reasons.  but i can not see why you would be interested in the rather dusty career of william galbraith  teacher, naturalist, curator -- when you lead such a gay and exciting life yourself.
show business?
yes. it is always fascinated me.  you know, once, when i was a youngster, i went to see mrs. leslie carter in "zaza." after the play i stood in the alley just to watch her come out.
so you see meeting you is a real thrill for me.
well, I am hardly mrs. leslie carter whoever she was. in fact, I am not even much of a success around here particularly after the backfire on jerry's little publicity stunt with the leopard.
that was unfortunate.
that was a calamity!
well, I am next. you will not hear anything like that, mr. galbraith.  I am not a popular favorite since i let the leopard loose.
I am sure if you are as talented as you are charming, miss walker, you have nothing to worry about.
thanks.
well, I would best be off.
i want to ask you something.
it is about the leopard.
you are worrying about its killing someone else?
yes. i want to go out and patrol the town - be everywhere at once - be sure nothing happens to anybody.
of course. it is the way any decent man would feel in your position.
you know about animals -- their habits -- will it come back?
no. I am quite sure.
there is no danger at all. it is a wild animal. do you think a wild animal prefers walls, streets and people when it can get into open country?
that is right, of course.
do not feel so concerned, jerry.
he will be waiting...
you must say that you went to take some of the roses to your father's grave...
at four. he will be there at four.
pedro is waiting for me, too.
rosita  i have wondered -
what, senorita?
when you are going to see pedro, does your heart beat until you tremble?
love is different for different people.
i suppose so. i suppose it will be different for us, too  when everyone knows. then we will be just like other people.  but these last weeks will always be our secret  a lovely secret to remember all our lives.
doc -- something you said the other day --
yes?
it does not jibe with this  you told me the leopard would go out into the country - it would not stay in the city
sure -- certainly - but what is that got to do with this?
that is what i do not understand -- why should it come here -- and why did not it stay here? it is got trees and bushes here -- outside nothing but cement and asphalt.
jerry, i talked to you about the habits of an ordinary wild leopard. this leopard is another matter entirely - - a caged animal travelling around with charlie how come for years and years.. that is why it kills human beings.
why?
it does not know how to hunt its natural prey.
but it does not eat what it kills.
caged animals are unpredictable. they are like frustrated human beings. i can not answer your question.
that is why it just mauls and tears at them.
something is wrong with this whole setup --
yes, there is something wrong. people who want publicity and do not mind how they get it --what risks they make other people run - - what agony and sorrow they bring to other people --
i know all that, chief, and i do not like it any better than you do, but there is something else --
just a minute, robles.  let him go on.
i can understand about the cat killing the first girl. charlie how come told me. all that noise and those lights -- scared crazy it would do anything. last night there was nothing to disturb it. just a little girl alone in a cemetery.
what are you getting at?
nothing much -- just that it might not be a cat this time.
can not make a buck without my leopard. i tell you, mr. manning, you got to find that cat for me -- or pay up.
look, charlie, just be patient. I will fix everything. you do not want that cat, anyway. it killed two people.
no, sir. that girl in the cemetery? my cat did not kill that girl. i told you cats do not go around looking for trouble. if that cat's alive, it is out in the country hiding under a bush, starving to death.
you really think so, charlie?
that cat am not mean. i feed him out of my own hand for six years. why do not he kill me? at night in the truck, i let him out of the cage. when i am falling asleep i hear him walking back and forth. i go to sleep. he do not hurt me.
they all say the cat killed this second girl.
they do not say it to me.
I would like one of them to say it to you, charlie. I would like to have you hear his side of it his reasons. want to hear them?
sure.
let's get in your truck.
where is that man?
up at the museum.
you know charlie how-come?
we are old friends.
come to look around?
more or less.
I will take you about. got some nice things.
charlie and i were talking. that is one reason i wanted to see you.
about charlie's leopard?
yes.
here is something that should interest charlie - a stone leopard head made by his ancestors some six hundred years ago. they used it in ceremonies. the jaguar -- in fact all the cat family -- were considered the personification of force and violence in their religious rites.
it do not look like a leopard to me.
charlie does not think the leopard killed the girl in the cemetery.
charlie likes his leopard.
sure, i like my leopards
but he admitted quick enough that it killed the first girl.
well, charlie, just why do you think your cat did not kill the contreras girl?
you know -- not scared enough. nothing to scare it.
if a leopard did not do it, who did?
it could be a man.
it could be. why would a man kill her? for what? it was not robbery. it was not a crime of jealousy or passion. she had no enemies.
there are all sorts of men. you get to see some funny ones as a reporter.
i can understand what you mean - demented men, pathological cases. but what sort of man would kill like a leopard and leave the traces of a leopard?
some crazy guy.
but he would have to know about leopards - have access to leopard claws and hair.
we had given up digging in a certain barrow. i went back and i tried again. i just had a hunch.
a hunch -- that is all I have got about this leopard thing. it is just a hunch, yet i feel it deep in the stomach. it was a man!
yes, but what sort of a man?
i do not know.
you, charlie -- you know leopards. you might have had an old claw around somewhere, and perhaps a bit of hair from the cage - eh?
sure!
no. I am serious about this.
oh, I am only exploring your theory. let's take a step further. you drink, do not you, charlie?
i drink.
and when you drink, you get drunk.
then what do you do?
i sleep it off.
but between the time you leave the cant ma and fall into bed in that old truck of yours, what happens, charlie?
i do not know.
that is just it, charlie. that is what I am driving at. you could do anything in that time.
charlie was not drunk last night.
yes, i was drunk, mr. manning.
come on, charlie. let's go find another and better suspect.
do not you want to see the rest of the exhibit?
some other time.
I am sick.
here have a cigarette. he was only kidding.
no, he was not kidding. I am sick. claw women? hurt little girls? no!
i do not know. i want to see robles.
what do you want to see him for?
i want him to lock me up.
look, charlie, you did not do it, and you know you didn't.
i do not know. i want him to lock me up.
I have been trying to tell him, sheriff. he will not listen to me.
let me get one thing clear. did galbraith make a direct accusation?
no. he was kidding charlie.
is someone with you -- can i get you a drink?
why not?
my soninlaw. what do you think of him?
that depends. how much money has he?
when you marry champagne, clo-clo, you can not trade it in for beer. you are stuck with it.
i can not understand that fancy talk.  you mean I am a gold-digger? sure, I am a gold-digger -- why not?
why not -- if you like it - if that is what you really want.
maybe i should just forget all about money - - forget about mamma and the kids and the rent, huh - marry some poor dope like -- oh, like carlos dominguez - - and get fat and -
who is carlos dom-what's-his-name?
nobody. a boy who works in a grocery.
good looking?
mmmyes.
nice fellow?
is he in love with you?
i do not know -
why do you ask so many questions? what difference does it make how carlos and i feel? feeling does not buy clothes and houses!
drink your beer and do not get so excited.
this is for "mama and the kids."
what about me?
you get your money from your husband.
well -- did he give you a lot of money?
who?
the elderly man i told you about.
cut.
what are you doing that for?
something black - something on its way to you
go on -
do not look at it!
let me see it
the death card - -
maybe not - cards mean different things different times --
see you tomorrow -
tomorrow -
state hunters?
professional hunters, who rid the state of cougars.
yes. the lipstick.
why?
ask kiki. ask any woman. girls do not put on lipstick in the middle of the night on a dark, lonely street unless they are with a man or expecting a man.
now i know i did not hurt nobody when i was drunk - -
of course, not, charlie. i never thought you did.
and my leopard - - maybe he hurt the first girl -- but no more.
you must admit it is possible that it might have been a man.
just barely possible - - yes.
you know a lot. you have taken a lot of fancy courses in colleges and that kind of stuff - - what kind of a man would kill like that?
but all those fancy courses were about the dead, jerry, not the living.
all right -- the dead, then.  in history there must have been men like that -- men with kinks in their brains --
yes. there have been men who kill for pleasure -- strange pleasure. there was blue beard in france -- jack the ripper in london. it is not uncommon.
if there were a man like that, with a kink in his brain around here loose, what would he be like.
to the eye? like other men.
i do not mean that. how would he act? what would he do?
he would act normally when he was with other people. it would be a man who suffered remorse and even pity when it was all over.
could not you tell a man like that when you saw him?
no. he would be a hard man to find, jerry. particularly if he were a clever men. he would go about his ordinary business calmly and coolly except when the fit to kill was on him.
you have thought of all this before. you know it is not the leopard   do not you?
oh, dear -- i do not know what I am going to do without you - honestly, i do not
hey  I am over here.
I will miss you too, honey --
i can use them.
do they close up every year for this processionist business?
that was nice of mr. galbraith.
he is a nice guy. vie ought to keep in touch with him.
pretty. you know -- it is funny but flowers only mean one thing to me now.
i know. funerals.
yes.
jerry, these flowers are not really for me
you mean you want to take them to the cemetery.
yes. do you mind?
and she waited here for him?
robles says it looks that way. belmonte had already been there and left. they only missed each other by a few minutes.
why do you want to stay around here? it will only make you feel badly.
maybe i want to feel badly.
that does not make sense.
what else do you care about, kicks?
you. us.
I am glad you care about us, kicks. sometimes that gets kind of lost in the racket --
maybe there ought to be less racket and more us.
confession. I am a complete softie. I have been conscience-stricken and worried sick ever since that leopard got away --
if that is being a softie -- there are two of us.
kiki -- it was not the leopard.
you are positive of that, are not you?
absolutely sure.
you already know the answer to that. i want this town to be safe and happy again --
I am no detective. i do not even know how to begin. all i know is i want to do something about all this.
oh, by the way -- I am out of cash --
did not you take your cut out of the closing check?
i got into a little crap game.
that is funny -- i never knew you to lose that much before --
as a matter of fact, I am out of cash myself.
what! you can not be --
i -- i bought some silver jewelry and stuff from eloise --
eloise does not own enough of anything to make a dent in your pay check, kicks.
all right, I am not ashamed of it! i split it two ways
half to the delgado family and half to clo-clo's family.
how do you know?
two hundred and fifty dollars you owe met
you found the leopard!
what is left of him.
where? where did you find it?
north -- in an arroyo, shot through the head - maybe week ago. no good, skin, everything gone
what arroyo - how did you get to it
and here is three tree mesa -- and here i go out of the big arroyo --
that is the place: i remember - my feet were so darn sore, i could not make it -- and galbraith went on up to the head of the canyon by himself --
chief, do not you understand what this means?
you think galbraith found the leopard on the day you went out with the posse.
I am sure of it!
galbraith knows something. he as good as said so
i am not interested in what somebody else thinks. you being me facts and I will act on them.
that is a fact, is not it?
yes. and i am taking it to headquarters for examination.
you will not go to galbraith with me?
offend a reputable citizen and involve the department in a slander suit? no. I am in office to protect the taxpayers money  not throw it way. come on, charlie.
no. no, thanks.  now we have got to do it ourselves.
we will
oh, mr. galbraith! I am so glad you are here.
good evening.
you know all about these things - - and I have lived here all my life - and i still do not know what the procession means.
it is to remind people of the great tragedy that took place here so that they will not ever forget that a peaceful village of indians was wiped out by the conquistadores, back in the 17th century... a band of monks buried the dead and prayed for them and did penance for their deaths  that is what this procession is supposed to be.
oh, that is so interesting!
well, now that you have had your history lesson, i think I will get on to the museum.
I have disturbed	you. I am sorry -
miss walker -- i did not expect anyone
of course. only I am afraid you will be cheated. there is not much of a view of the procession here.
i thought they came right past here
they do, but -- there are no lights out there - they will just be shadows -
wait
no - really, i can see them -- they are coming now - turn off the lights
kiki?
it is all right. I am not hurt.
it was you, galbraith!
no.
it was you.
not! i tell you. no!
you shot the leopard. we know that. you killed consuelo. you killed clo clo. then tonight --
i did not do anything. she screamed. something frightened her.
consuelo screamed too -- and clo clo. why did you do it? why? quick. tell me why?
it is better you do not know.
tell me.
why do yo&amp;i accuse me? you do not know what you are doing -- you do not understand -- nobody understands --
tormented -- ? why?
i could not rest - i could not sleep. all i could see was teresa delgado's body -- broken --mangled. i saw it day and night.  it was waiting everywhere i turned.
then you found the leopard --
i did not want to kill, but i had to. i heard her in the cemetery - talking to the man in the auto --
we stood here once before.
i know -- teresa -
i hated you that day - you and your flip talk - with that little girl lying dead.
i know. what do you think i felt when you said, "don't be soft?"
jerry, i want you to be soft. you are soft -- inside - where it matters. i wanted it that day too, but did not dare tell you.
we ought to dare to tell each other everything, kiki -- you and i.
it is a lovely town - it was until we came and let the leopard loose and all this happened.
kiki, galbraith said something to me once, -- something you ought to know. we were talking and he said that people were like that ball on the fountain at the hotel --they got pushed around by things bigger than themselves. that is the way it was with us -- and we were too small to see it that way.
