arise and shine, young hood.
i hope you changed the water in that bong from last night.
the water, as you call it, is a special mixture of amaretto and ben&ben blended for just the exact chemical interaction with the last of our precious thai stick.
waste not master hood -- that was $20 for the bag.
man, francis, you are one drug addled elitist freak, and when the revolution comes i do not want to be lined up with you and shot, 'cause you are fucking ripe for political reeducation, you know, like in the fields.
paul, cancel your mental appointments, baby. what are you, like still stoned from last night?
i gotta get to english class.
um, libbets. hey, dostoyevsky, I am also really a fan, and what you were saying, you know, have you ever read the idiot?
the idiot?
if you liked notes from underground, you will love the idiot.
great, thanks for the tip.
the idiot.
I am in love with libbets casey.
yeah, well, you have been in love with like every other girl here, i was wondering when you would get around to libbets.
it is beyond mere physical attraction.
that is good, because i do not think libbets is capable of the sex act.
truly? do speak.
my diagnosis is messed in the head. a poor little rich girl -- i mean check out the jeans and fur look. and lend your ears to this brutality. like her mom and step dad and her step-sisters are going to switzerland to ski over thanksgiving break -- and like they did not invite her!
how do you know this shit?
they did it last year too. it is like traditional or something. they have got this humongoid park ave apartment and she just holes up there with a wad of cash.  are not the hugely wealthy sad?
you think francis is going to beat me to the punch here?
since he sleeps with every girl you ever show an interest in, why do not you just keep your libbets thing a secret from him?
good thinking marge.
no more man. I am about to drop as it is.
see ya.
where you going?
paul, let me enlighten you about something. you and i exist on two opposite sides of a great existential divide, that being your pathetic virginity on the one hand and my astonishing number of sexual conquests on the other. I am off to get laid. see you.
flame on, asshole.
and remember, with your erogenous zones lubricated as such with the mighty herb, do not attempt terrestrial contact with members of the opposite sex -- because you drone on like a motherfucker when you are stoned.
how can you do that man?
do what?
sleep all day. i mean, look, it is already getting dark outside, and you are just getting up.
um, libbets casey.
what?
aha! i could sense the vibe.
what do you mean?
am i right or am i right?
shit. you are not planning --
my man, i speak to you solely as a comrade in arms offering unconditional aid. I have been giving this one a lot of thought, and i believe that the two of you together might just reach that higher ground that --
hi dad.
hey guy. things ok up there? you all right?
I am fine dad.
well good. just confirming. you will be on the 3:50 wednesday afternoon.
well dad, actually i thought I would take the morning train on thanksgiving -- got a lot of studying, papers, you know, lab experiments --
lab experiments? right smart guy -- paul, you know your mother's going to be disappointed not to see more of you -- in fact, let me make this more than a simple request guy, i think you should...
charles.
charles. have you been keeping out of my shit? have you refrained from entering the sacred precincts of my room?
i have not touched your sh--  stuff. you watching this?
watching what?
nixon, doofus! it is incredible. he should be shot.
ok, ok, the defense rests.  want another?
no thank you. we should be off.
gotcha.
do not be so modest, ben. it is a job that requires a certain prescience with regards to entertainment trends. you were the first to predict that billy jack would be a hit --
and as usual no one believed me...
please don't.
it is not a bother.
i insist.  do not touch them.
oh.
it is really quite all right.
of course.
and to think -- they met at a key party of all things.
a key party?
you know, it is a california thing. that scuzzy husband of hers dragged her kicking and screaming to one when they were out in l.a. you know, the men put their car keys in a bowl, and then at the end of the evening the women line up and fish them out and go home with whoever's keys they have got. anyhow that is how she met this rod person or whatever his name is and he is left his wife and she is packing for california. irwin is devastated. it is so ironic.
thank you janey.
it was lovely!
stupid!  is wendy hood your girlfriend?
who said so?
no one.
i do not have a girlfriend.
dad stop it!
get to sleep young lady -- and i mean it.
fascist!
if i were a fascist i would have sent you to one of those southern military academies a long time ago. now get to bed.
good-night dad.
good night kiddo.
you are staring at me.
i was not star--
I have been thinking, ben, about wendy. i was going to ask if she would come with me sometime to meet dr. woolens.
that shrink -- the one you always wanted me to see? i thought you dropped him.
i did, but -- somebody should probably see her, talk to her... you think she is ok?
why should not she be?
then again, why should she be? i mean with us, with our...
so maybe you will come too?
oh not again elena! if we have got problems, why can not you just come out and talk about them.
it is you ben who needs to talk. I have had my say, and I am waiting to hear back from you.
yeah but elena, even you do not believe all that "i'm ok. you are ok" stuff you keep babbling about -- you say so yourself. I have been all ears for about ten years now on his subject, and --
-- and you have not moved out yet. it is because you are too lazy, ben. too scared or lazy to either deal with us or simply make a decision --
elena.
good night.
good night.
and speaking of which, you have those market share charts mr. shackley was asking about?
gotcha george, not a problem. tomorrow. hey, you want to start covering the old filmed entertainment sector yourself?
ben you know that is your territory - and i would not dream to trespass - you are the expert. hey, how do you think paramount's going to do with that blatty novel, what is it called? the exorcist?
overpriced bomb, cost over $6 million -- no stars, and no one's into the horror genre these days anyway. I am advising the company recommend reducing positions there. it is disaster films that are going to stay at the top.
brilliant. hey, you heading out a little early today?
got a meeting uptown.
right o'.
up the organization!  bastard.
we do not have to always go to your club, dad.
and why are you still calling me dad? you are forty years old already, and --
-- well what am i supposed to call you?
that is besides the point.
i was actually trying to see about getting a little advice, you know --
advice? I am supposed to be getting the stock tips from you, ben. unless - have you quit your job? they fired you?
you know, dah--
actually it is not about work, it is advice about --
oh for crying out loud ben, you do not mean to tell me that your marriage is going down the drain now --
well, elena and i have kind of been talking, not really talking, but --
-- your mother, god bless her, stood by me for forty-two years -- we never once contemplated divorce - i assume you are talking here about divorce? the very thought --
but dad, you guys truly hated each other, i mean really hated each --
-- waiter! where is my cobb salad?  you want advice ben? if your big brother were still alive I would have him go out into the back yard and beat some sense into your head. look kid, you married that woman against my advice --
-- what advice? you never --
that is besides the point. the point is if I would had any sense in me I would have divorced your mother 40 years ago, and that is the truth, and here it is, 1972 --
-- 73
-- 73, and divorce is as easy as paying off a traffic ticket, and for crying out loud, ben, be a man and just get it over with. i would have if I would had the chance.
but...
but what?
but i -- well maybe i love her. elena.
elena. elena hood, am i right?
yes.
reverend edwards. philip edwards. you came by and checked out the congregation a couple of times last year.
yes, it was -- i ended up --
no need to make excuses --
it is been a tremendously transformative year -- maybe a little controversial of course, but we are breaking down the old unitarian barriers --
i suppose my reluctance was the group aspect of it -- I have never been much of a joiner, although i still consider myself a somewhat religious person --
well i of course flatter myself that our church is not exactly what most people would call organized religion -- at times it is the disorganization that is liberating -- and of course I have begun to minister much more in what one might call therapeutic environments, in small groups, and one on one, couples --
my daughter. i have not been on a bike for years.  when was the last time you rode a bike?
they say you never forget.
forget what?
forget how to ride a bike.
hey wendy.
hey sandy.
mikey was looking for you.
yeah? see ya.
want some gum?
sure.  twinkie?
I am chewing.
did you tell sandy?
tell sandy? what?
it is like farming. i am basically chewing up large tracts of expensively landscaped scenery with overpriced sticks, and george clair has obviously, in the mere two years since he joined the firm, he has obviously been taking secret lessons with a golf pro, and i assume the entirety of his disposable income has been devoted to humiliating me on the golf course. and the guy talks - incessantly -- throughout the entirety of the miserable 18 holes - on topics that are the supposed domain of my department --
ben--
yeah?
you are boring me. i have a husband. i do not particularly feel the need for another.
you have a point there. that is a very good point. we are having an affair. right. an explicitly sexual relationship. your needs. my needs. you are absolutely right.
you should probably get dressed. the boys will be home soon.
gotcha.
hi mom.
hi wendy.
i saw you on your bike today.
with mikey?
who?
nobody.
mikey williams?
we were just riding around.
weightless almost -- as if i were seeing my own memories of being a girl. there was something internal about it.
mom. are you ok?
wendy, of course. I am sorry. you must think I am ripe to be checked into silver meadows.
you are not a psycho!
the people at silver meadows are not psychos.
i know. they are rich drug addicts and celebrities. when i saw james taylor there, and --
we have been through this wendy james taylor was actually at that clinic up near boston.
well, i saw what i saw, and if you do not want to believe me --
oh wendy.
they need the money for my band uniform at school.
i thought you quit the band - i never hear you practice anymore.
i do not really need to practice. i just play a few notes, you know, so i thought maybe I would stay in.
well, I am sure your father and i would love to hear what you are playing these days. maybe after dinner.
the halfords have invited us again this year.
you want to go?
what do you think?
well, it is a neighborhood tradition.
i'm, uh, going to bed.
so early?
rough day. good night.
oh yeah. musk, or something. you like it?
hmm. good night.
mikey?
yeah?
geometry?
sure, anything but this english.
why are you so good at math but not in english?
I am not good at math. just geometry.
jesus, jim!
sorry honey. hell, we have got to trade this thing in for a normal bed.
just be careful.
you notice anything with mikey lately? the kid seemed a little out of it tonight, eh?
tonight? jim, he is been out of it since he was born.
hell, i guess he takes after me, huh?
in many ways, the church-bound tradition of the father, son, and holy ghost is simply a version of the parent-child-adult triad within us all. it is a primitive set of symbols for our inner psychology.
you are saying that christ is the child, and --
-- and god the angry parent, and the spirit the hope of an integrated adult self.
all well and good -- but tell me again what is it exactly that you believe in?
you ask what the point is?
that is right.
self-realization. ministering to help people reach their fullest potential. would you believe me if i told you i want you to see yourself reach your fullest potential and self-realization?
i would say it sounds like you are trying to get me into bed.
if that is a potential you see yourself fulfilling... i mean...  my, i sound a bit --
I am sorry. that was stupid of me. i did not mean to be so rude.
you weren't. you actually, for some reason, you have the effect on me of making me feel just a tiny bit ashamed of myself.
but not too ashamed.
now you are being rude.
and you are still trying to get me into bed.
ouch.
hello you two. am i barging in on some kind of religious study group? elena, you look marvelous. will i see you and ben at the halford's?
i suppose we will make an appearance.
and reverend edwards? did you make the list?
I am afraid she is something of a gossip, is not she?
I am afraid people around here provide her with quite a bit to gossip about.  take care.
that i will indeed.
it is not the taxes i object to. it is all the fines and penalties.
alright dad. but you sold the house, you did not tell anyone, including the irs, and I would of certainly liked to have seen if there was any old stuff --
it was all junk!
oh. elena wanted to know when we could expect you on thanksgiving. it is just going to be you this year.
ben, I am going to florida. i hate thanksgiving and i hate the cold. i have a new nurse. she is a negro, she weighs three hundred pounds, and I have decided to leave my entire estate to her.
what?
jesus, benjamin, you are still as gullible as ever.
that was a joke? you do not tell jokes.
i thought I would start trying. if you do not mind. but i am going to florida and i do have a new nurse.
thanks again. for the dinner.
thanks for eating it. i do not know why i even pretend i can cook.
i used to know how to cook.
it is not like we are too busy.
I am thinking of going back to school.
social work?
how did you know?
educated guess.
I am that predictable? no, you do not have to answer that. it is just that with the kids almost grown --
you do not have to apologize. I am too much of a cynic. you actually seem to be trying to figure things out -- do not mind me.
here you are.
thanks for the lift. if the bike's any bother--
none at all. I will leave it in front of your garage. happy thanksgiving.
hey.  I will take this stuff.
you going to tell dad?
would it matter?  and what is that?
you know, it is the whip -- the one uncle frank got me from mexico.
it is not packed with explosives, is it?
no!
play with the whip.
well, you can...
hey sandy, what were you blowing up out there? your mom was pretty p.o.'d.
all my model planes.
the ones you built?
they were old. and they could not fly anyhow. I am going to get a radio-controlled airplane at christmas, and then I will stuff it full of m-80s and then fly it into mrs. burgess's english class and blow it up.
i have to go to the bathroom.
yeah.
i do not ever want to see you.
then why did you come after me?
you all right there?
oh. sure, i -- did you remember to pick up the cranberry sauce?
um, yes.
because you like it on your turkey sandwiches.
i do. I am -- are you...?
i... i think i am...
you know elena, I have been thinking--
ben, maybe no talking right now? if you start talking, you are going to--
you crying?
I am just sad ben -- i mean it was... you were, but, you know. i just do not know...
whatever that means elena -- and you complain about me not communicating... i thought it was --
no, i did not mean to sound negative. it was -- but ben.  what is going to happen with us? have you --
you have to bring this up now? what? did i do something here? is that it? is it something i did?
i was not accusing you, ben. it is just that we have got to be honest. not just with ourselves, but with the children.
hell, i know. i -- i guess if you want to accuse me, you have got --  oh hell! I have got to pick up paul. i almost forgot.
yikes -- i was hoping to wear this thing to the halford's friday.
that shirt?
what?
leave it -- I will wash it for you.
you have to follow me?
i dunno. i --
I am picking up paul at the station - want to come?
nah.
what you been up to?
nothing.
so how is school treating you?
all right.
classes?
good.
grades?
fine.
anyone special? you know...
hnnn.
well it is good to see you -- we miss you around the house and all, but this st. peter's, it is top of the line, eh?
yeah.
you know paul, I have been thinking, maybe this is as good a time as any to have a little talk, you know, about -- well --
about?
well, the whole gamut. facts of life and all. some fatherly advice, because, i tell you, there is things happening that you are probably old enough... well...  for example, on the self-abuse front -- now this is important - it is not advisable to do it in the shower -- it wastes water and electricity and because we all expect you to be doing it there in any case -- and, um, not onto the linen, and not on your sister's underwear or any clothing belonging to your mother --
holy! well. if you are worried about anything, just feel free to ask, and, uh, we can look it up.
uh, dad, you know I am 16.
all the more reason for this little heart to heart... great.
um, paul. on second thought, can you do me a favor and pretend i never said any of that.
sure dad.
thanks.
hello, charles.
greetings, charles.
how are the parental units functioning these days?
dad's like doing his up with people routine, mom has not been saying much.
i do not know. dad seems a little weird.
yeah well wait till mom opens her mouth.
may i operate your telephonic apparatus?
why do not you use the phone downstairs?
calling an individual, charles, in new york. confirming a social outing for friday night.
can i come?
it is a one-on-one kind of date thing.
with who?
her name's libbets.
libbets? what kind of a name is libbets?
the turkey in?
stuffed and baking.
... while children in africa and asia are napalmed and --
jesus all right enough!
here.
after the thanksgiving i had, i need it. you having one?
in a bit.
maybe it is all for the better, you know? yesterday, at dinner, well, she has not said anything... has she acted funny to you, i mean, have you noticed anything?
have i noticed anything? I am not married to her benjamin, you are. i think you have probably a better vantage point from which to observe her.
yeah, but, i -- I have been working a lot lately, and -- no, that is not it. i guess we have just been on the verge of saying something, whatever it is, just saying something to each other. on the verge.
huh?
birth control.
right. gotcha.
see, no one's here. maybe you want to go to the basement?
maybe we can just watch some tv.
there is a tv in the basement.
maybe we can mess around. you know, only if you want to...
i do not know.
why did you -- with sandy?
i do not know.
you like him? he worships you.
wow!
wendy!
when worlds collide.
huh?
4:30 movie. when worlds collide.
what the hell are you kids doing down here?
what do you think we are doing, dad?
what do i think? i think you are probably touching each other. i think you are touching that reckless jerk-off, for god's sake, and i think he is trying to get into your slacks. i think, at fourteen years of age, that you are getting ready to give up your girlhood --
talking to me, dad?
who else would i be talking to? and take that thing off!
well, then forget all this stern dad stuff.
I am not interested in your smart ass remarks now, lady. let's go. right now. you and i can discuss it on the walk home.
look, kiddo, do not worry about it. i really do not care that much. I am just not sure he is good enough, that is all.
huh?
i mean, he is not serious, he will end up living off janey and jim, you watch. it is just that you develop a sense when you get older, if things are going to work out or if they won't, and sometimes it is not worth the mess...
your toes cold?
yeah.
dinner in ten minutes.
you go dry off now.
in the basement over at janey and jim's. with that weirdo mikey. not even a tv on. and they are on the floor and he is got his trousers down though thank goodness she is still dressed. well, i really let him have it!  ... and wendy came home peacefully... hey, should i dress for the halford's now, or - give me your -
up to you. I would like to go early and leave pretty soon after that.
i get you loud and clear... hey, you look nice.
so what were you doing in the williams' basement anyway?
oh, just dropping off a coffee cup. jim left it, last time he was over. it was on the dash of the car. you were, you know, reading, thought I would just catch some air. let's eat.
oh right. the mustache coffee cup. the one that was sitting on the dash.
yeah, that one.
that one.
see you.
stay out of trouble.
ah let the guy have his fun. what is the name of this girl with the park avenue address?
libbets. libbets casey.
libbets? what kind of name is libbets?
what is for dessert?
see for yourself.
no advice from the experts, huh?
do not start.
you think i --
i have no idea.
what is on your mind? do not --
it would not make a pleasant evening, if that is what you are after. i do not want to talk about it. stupid mustache cup.
what do you mean?
do not be dim.
elena, what are you are talking about?
I am not surprised.
listen, elena, if you are going to pull that passive aggressive stuff on me again --
your unfaithfulness -- that is what I am trying to talk about. your unfaithfulness. your betrayal. your dalliance. and you will not do me the dignity of being up front about it.
am i unfaithful? is that what you are trying to say?
it is a starting place.
well, what kind of faithfulness are you after?
if you are going to insult me --
what else could i be? what else could i be? we are not living in the real world here. you are living out some fantasy land from the past, or some advice or something from those psychoanalysts... there are some hard facts here.
oh lord. you think I am so dense. and now you want to be seen with your dense wife at the cocktail party. you want to wear that ridiculous shirt which does not go with those pants at all. you want to wear that, and you want me to shake hands with your friends and make conversation and dress up in an outfit that shows a lot of cleavage and you are not going to accord me the respect of talking honestly about this... you do not really know what this feels like.
sure i do. do i know what loneliness feels like? sure i do. i know a lot about it, if that is what you mean.
benjamin. that is supposed to explain it?
we are going to the halford's. the number's on the calendar in the kitchen. we should be home around 11.
is it a big party? a big neighborhood party?
i suppose. why?
just curious. if there is a problem, i guess I will just call you there to interrupt.
what sort of problems are you planning exactly?
oh i thought I would steal the station wagon, drive up to a commune. or set the house on fire. you know.
just bundle up. it is supposed to freeze tonight. we will see you in the morning.
you've...
in the car.
oh, yeah. yeah, we will be right back, dot.
this just is not the best moment for this.
i know, i know. i had no idea --
that this was going to be a key party?
yeah, well, if we would understood we could have invented some kind of excuse. a key party -- did you see how stuffed that bowl was already?
well?
i think we are here and we do not have to stay -- we ought simply to put in an appearance and then we can head home.
damn it, ben --
I am not staying at this party so we can go home with someone else's wife. that is not why we are here, right? we are simply being neighbors here, and i think we should do just that --
you are not going to --
I am not.
you have some marker, that is what i think, if you want to know the truth. you have some marker and you are going to put it on the house keys so that janey can find them and then when i get back to the house I will find the two of you in there and wendy'll be able to hear you and paul will be back and he will hear you and I will catch you, that is what i think. she will be swearing and banging against the wall and I will catch --
elena.
elena, it is not what you think. it is not a big plot. honestly. honestly. i do not know if you want to go over this now, but it is just something that comes over me. i do not feel good about it. i know I have done what i did not want to do. i do not know --
well, I am really pleased to hear a confession.
elena, you are just getting wound up to get wound up.
thanks for the diagnosis, ben. thank you. so let's just go to this fiasco if that is what you want to do. let's just go on in. I would rather talk to anyone else but you.
benjie!
clair, george clair! what the hell brings you to new canaan?
well, it is the funniest thing. I have been talking to some investors -- a little outside venture, you understand, between you and me -- about a scheme to manufacture a new styrofoam packaging. little peanut like pieces that can really keep an item free from trauma during shipping. miraculous. anyway, it turns out the genius behind the whole project is your neighbor, jim williams. how about that!
well, hey, is not that a one-in-a million coincidence. a real dreamer, jim williams, eh?
darned right. look here, benj, whaddya make of this sequel to the godfather? you think it is going to work?
do not see how. i think the public's had its fill of this gangster stuff. no, trust me -- disaster pics. and air hockey.
yeah, good.
well, going to make a break for the hors d'oeuvres guy.
yeah, see you bright and early monday am.  say, where is the wife?
in rhode island with the folks. I am a free agent tonight.
oh jeez, benjie. well, here you are.
damn right, but where the hell were you?
what are you talking about?
do not bullshit me around, janey. jesus christ, i waited around for more than half an hour, in nothing but my boxer shorts, and -- and what is all that about? what the hell happened?
a prior engagement overcame me.
what?
listen, benjamin hood. i have obligations that precede your... from before you showed up. one or two, you know, good-natured encounters, that does not mean i'm... I am not just some toy for you. when i remembered some chores i wanted to get done before the party, i just did them, that is all, because i wanted to do them before i saw jimmy.
jimmy? jimmy? i do not know how to take this. and what do you mean, jimmy? i thought you said you and your husband --
how you take it is not all that interesting to me, benjamin. I am sorry --
i just can not believe you could be so --
welcome to the monkey house has been a seminal influence on me -- hey benjamin -- give it a try? this stuff will make some sense out of those larger questions.
thanks for the advice dave.
good shit.
sure is good shit. it is opiated. i had it in my chamber for a while. i was smoking this other --
it is what?
do not fret, benjie, it is --
darn it, dave.
you oughtta read this hood, nixon, our leader, all ye need know about the travails of life. check out the checkers speech stuff.
francis. you gonna leave the seeds in there? in the binding like that?
all will be revealed, baby.
awesome sleet and rain.
major.
howdy there. you, young knight. can you check on the mead? can you sally forth and secure us some more mead?
huh?
moisture! moisture!
frankie opens them with his teeth.
hey, it is a sellable skill.
everything's going to freeze, the big freeze.
yeah, paul, are you gonna get home okay?
you are parents at that party?
yeah. yours?
you get in trouble?
maybe. can not really tell yet.
I am sorry if i got you into trouble. maybe we do not have to, you know... unless you really want to.
yeah.
where you going?
out.
it is freezing.
yeah. when it freezes, i guess that means the molecules are not moving. so when you breathe, there is nothing in the air, you know, to breathe in to your body. the molecules have stopped. so it is clean.
reverend edwards.
perhaps you might find it in your heart to call me philip?
you are here... I am a bit surprised.
sometimes the shepherd needs the company of the sheep.
I am going to try hard not to understand the implications of that simile.
and whence has yon virginal maiden absconded?
like into one of the other 20 or so bathrooms they have got in this place.
check it out. not for the faint of heart.
pharmaceutical! you are a god.
one for you and one for me.
no candy for me?
groovy.  young master of the revels, a treat for our hostess?
well, uh, i don't, it is really --
what is it?
come on paulie, share the wealth. you copped 'em from her mom's stash anyway.
let's see!
maybe you should have just a half.
thanks for the advice dad.
yeah.
you know libbets, i really feel, you know, like a real connection to you --
yeah but you do not even know me really.
sure i do, you know, like your aura. that you give off.
my what?
it is like very positive, and i feel a real special feeling, because you really --
and i have a special feeling too, because i do. it is special.
you do? I am glad. because i feel for you --
and i have a feeling for you too, because you are just like -- i feel for you like you are -- you are just like --
i do.
right. cool. so, how about we take a bath together?
hah hah you are funny. a bath. like a brother and sister. oh man, I am so wasted.
ready to go?
we are not going anywhere.
hood residence.
charles, what time is it?
is this charles?
what time is it?
um, ten-o-five. why? where are you?
i'm, uh, in the midst of a moral dilemma. and i was wondering, because i know you are a very moral person, and --
and?
shit. i can not really talk about it. i guess i better get to the train.
right.
what are you doing at home on a friday night?
i have plans.
well, i have to say i do not have much faith that my car keys are still in that bowl. does not seem entirely safe, leaving your car keys around?
let me.
thanks, but -- oh, i do not think so. it is been kind of a discouraging evening.
you could not have hoped for much better when you came up the walk.
somehow it was different in my imagination when i thought about it. actually, i did not think about it at all, really.
you want coffee or something?
well, maybe they have one of those filter jobs in the kitchen --
look, elena, the fact that we are neighbors... you know, close friends, well it sort of makes this a little strange, do not you think?
my husband is probably passed out in the bathroom, or at least he wishes he were. I have been married to him for 17 years and i do not have any intention of going in there to get him... so what I am proposing is that since your wife has gone off with a boy, and since you are standing here alone, I am proposing that you and i do what makes sense. stay warm. pass some time. that is all.
now do not make me feel as if I am being too forward, ok? if you do not --
what the hey. let's go for a drive.
okay. shall we clean up around here first? do you think it is all right--
nah, that was not in the contract.
things are really rotten at home. you would not believe how rotten. janey's sick. she is unstable, i guess... it is not the right time to tell you... but that is it -- it is like i can not make her happy, the boys can not make her happy, she just does not --
jim, maybe we should just go. I have got to look in on the kids. paul is supposed to be coming back in from the city.
jesus, let me make it up to you -- i can do better than that, honestly --
well, we can talk about it.
that is fine. i would not expect you to see it any other way.
maybe you just need -- look, can you wait here a sec, i need to tidy up -- just a minute, I will be right back. you will wait?
of course.
elena.
ben, I have got a ride home. maybe you should sleep this one off on the couch here?
I will drive you --
ben.
you will get some sleep on the couch out there?
sure. I will try. and we will talk in the morning?
we will talk in the morning.
sandy, you scared the shit out of me.
what are you doing?
just thought I would stop by.
mike's out -- i think he went to silver meadow to see if you were hanging around there.
yeah.
are you his girlfriend?
no.
you okay?
yeah. you?
yes. well, i guess we can walk from here.
he is dead.
if it was not raining we could take him outside and blow him up.
he would not blow up. he would just get all mangled or twisted.
well.  it looks like someone got to his private parts before us.
communist viet cong.
they left it in the jungle.
we -- we have to go to the guest room. we can not stay in here. what if mikey? my parents?
do not worry about them. they are at that party, getting drunk and falling all over each other and making jokes about mcgovern and stuff.
want a drink?
vodka?
you never tasted the stuff?
it feels warm.
one more shot?
okay.
have you ever had a nocturnal emission?
huh?
that is the name for when you wake up and find this little pool of sticky stuff, like after a sexy dream.
i love you.
that is nice. are you drunk?
i do not know. how do i know?
i do not know either. you spin around, when you lie down.
you want to come in, get a cup of coffee -- warm up? i can either walk you home, or you could crash in the guest room.
sure. maybe coffee.
phone's out. i hope the pipe's --
i do not like coffee.
it will warm you up.
do you think? maybe we should call someone --
the phone's out.
yeah. well, we can just --
ben, i do not think he wants us here.
oh you know, for a minute i thought it was --
paul? yeah. you think --
he is probably been waiting all night at the station.
c'mon.
