don francesco.  you murdered my husband, because he would not bend. and his oldest son paolo, because he swore revenge.  but vitone is only nine, and dumb-witted.  he never speaks.
I am not afraid of his words.
he is weak.
he will grow strong.
the child cannot harm you.
he will be a man, and then he will come for revenge.
honey!  wait a minute; let's go for a drive.
i just had a drive; besides, i want to see my brother-in-law michael.
yeah, but i do not want him to see you.
goddamn bitch.
relax, freddie honey.  come dance with me.
listen, michael's got a lot of nice people here.  friends of kay's. he will never forgive me if you ruin his party.
i hate to see you cringe in front of him.  how come you are so scared of your own kid brother?
he is the head of the family.
constanzia.  we expected you last week; we sent the car to pick you up at the airport last week.
i know, it was chaos; but anyway, here i am one week late.  this is for my mama.  you remember merle?
yes, thank you.
how are the kids?
well, thank you, they asked for you all week.
i got surprises for everybody!
bought at the airport.
this is swell.  where is michael? I have got things to get straight with him and i can not wait on line.
you go see your children first, and then you wait to see your brother like everybody else.
who is that?  pentangeli?  frankie &quot;five-angels&quot;...thought you were never coming west.
got to check up on my boys.  hey, what is with the food?  some kid in a white jacket brings me a ritz cracker with some chopped liver. 'canapes,' he says.  i say, 'can a peas, my ass, that is a ritz cracker with chopped liver.' go get me a salami sandwich and a glass of wine or I will send you and your white jacket to the dry cleaners!
gee, frankie, it is good to see you. reminds me of old times.
you remember willy cicci, do not you, freddie?  we was all together with the old man clemenza in brooklyn... before...uh...
we were all upset about that.
that is what I am here to talk to your brother about.  what is with him, i got to get a letter of introduction to have a 'sitdown'?
c'mon, i see what i can do.
I am sorry; of course, you know that.
two-thirty.  that gives me time to see my boy.
connie's outside.
how are you, honey?  you have met merle, have not you.  he was with me in vegas.
i saw him with you.
we are going to europe next week.  i want to get passage booked on the queen.
why do you come to me?  why do not you go to a travel agent?
the ink on your divorce is not dry. your children see you on weekends; your oldest boy, michael francis... was in some trouble with the reno police over some petty theft that you do not even know about.
michael...
you fly around the world with lazy young men who do not have any love for you, and use you like a whore.
you are not my father!
then why do you come to me?
because i need money!
connie, i want to be reasonable with you.  you have a house here, with us.  you can live here with your kids...and you will not be deprived of anything.  i do not know much about merle; i do not know what he does for a living; what he lives on.  why do not you tell him marriage is really out of the question; and that you can not see him any more. he will understand.  but if you disobey me, and marry this pimp...it would disappoint me.
it was my father's money; and I am entitled to what i need.  where is tom hagen?
you know my lawyer, tom hagen. johnny ola.
sure, i remember tom from the old days.
tom is not going to sit in with us, johnny.  he only handles specific areas of the family business.  tom?
sure, mikey.
if you need anything, just...
just tell rocco I am waiting.
i just left our friend in miami.
how is his health?
not good.
is there anything i can do; anything i can send?
he appreciates your concern, michael, and your respect.
the hotel's registered owners are one jacob lawrence, and sidney barclay, both beverly hills attorneys.  in reality it is split between the old lakeville road group from cleveland, and our friend in miami.  he takes care of others outside the country, you know who i mean.  meyer klingman runs the store, and does all right, but I have been instructed to tell you, that if you move him out, our friend in miami will go along with you.
he is very kind, tell him it is appreciated.  I am sure it will be profitable all the way around.
he always makes money for his partners.  one by one, our old friends are gone.  death, natural or not, prison, deported.  our friend in miami is the only one left, because he always made money for his partners.
anthony, daddy's busy.
this is my boy, and my wife.  mr. john ola of miami.
I am sorry, michael.  senator geary's here, and mr. and mrs. barrett wanted to thank you before they left.  will not you join us, mr. ola?
mr. ola's just leaving, kay. please tell the senator i will not be a minute.
kay.
yes, michael.
where is my wife?
with mama, putting the baby to sleep.  francesca's very happy. michael was kind to her.  she idolizes him.  the children are all out in the speedboat.  I am going to my house.
he does not want my help any more. he does not need it.
we do not know that is true, he never said that.
i can feel it in the way he talks to me.
just now when johnny ola showed up, he asked me to leave them alone. ola is hyman roth's sicilian contact.  i was on the inside of ten, twenty meetings with him.  but today mike asked me to leave, like an outsider.
talk to him.  tell him how you feel.
it is as though he blames me for the ground the family lost when i was consigliere to sonny.
my lawyer, tom hagen.  he arranged this all through your man turnbull.
i thought we would meet alone.
i trust these men with my life. they are my right arms; i cannot insult them by sending them away.
some water.
the corleone family controls two major hotels in vegas; one in reno. the licenses were grandfathered in, so you had no difficulties with the gaming commission.  but i have the idea from sources...  ...that you are planning to move in on the tropicana.  in another week or so you will move klingman out, which leaves you with only one technicality.  the license, which is now in klingman's name.
turnbull is a good man.
let's forget the bullshit, i do not want to stay here any longer than i have to.  you can have the license for two hundred and fifty thousand in cash, plus a monthly fee equal to five percent of the gross...
senator geary, i speak to you as a businessman who has made a large investment in your state.  i have made that state my home; plan to raise my children here.  the license fee from the gambling commission costs one thousand dollars; why would i ever consider paying more?
I am going to squeeze you, corleone, because i do not like you; i do not like the kind of man you are.  i despise your masquerade, and the dishonest way you pose yourself and your fucking family.
we are all part of the same hypocrisy, senator.  but never think it applies to my family.
all right, then let me say you will pay me because it is in your interests to pay me.
what is 'cent' anne?'
a hundred years...it's a toast.
it means we should all live happily for one hundred years.  the family. if my father were alive, it would be true.
connie.
merle, have you met my sister-in- law deanna?
i know.
when do we talk?
after dinner.
sure, pete clemenza died of a heart attack, but the rosato brothers gave it to him.
we were all heartbroken at the news; but that was not cause to start a war.
okay, now it is my family in brooklyn; and i wanna keep up clemenza's loyalty to you.  but how can i run my family with you challenging my every move?  you are too far from the street, mike, the only way to reason with the rosato brothers is to whack 'em and whack 'em fast.
you were unfair with them.
says who?
clemenza promised rosato three territories in the bronx after he died, and then you took over and welched.
clemenza promised them nothing, he hated the sonsuvbitches.
they feel cheated.
michael, you are sitting up here in the sierra mountains with champagne cocktails making judgment on the way i run my family.
your family still carries the name corleone, and you will run it like a corleone!
and while i feed my family in new york, you put the knife in my back in miami.
frankie, you are a good old man, and you have been loyal to my father for years...so i hope you can explain what you mean.
the rosatos are running crazy; taking hostages, spitting in my face, because they are backed by the jew in miami.
i know.  that is why i want you to be fair with them.
how can you be fair with animals? they recruit niggers and spicks; they do violence in their own grandmother's neighborhoods.  and everything is dope and whores; the gambling is left to last.  let me run my family without you on my back.  i want them taken care of.
no.  there are things that i have planned with hyman roth.  i do not want them disturbed.
you give your loyalty to a jew over your own blood.
frankie, you know my father respected roth, did business with him.
he did business...but he never trusted him.
i wanta dance...whatsa matter with that?
dancing is alright; you are falling on the floor.
whatsamatter, you do not want me to dance with him 'cause he is a man!
deanna, I am going to belt you right in the mouth!
these eye-ties are really crazy when it comes to their wives.
hey mike, what can i say?
forget it, just go take care of her.
how is the baby?
sleeping inside me.
does it feel like a boy?
yes, michael, it does.
I am sorry about some of the people i had to see today.  it was bad timing... but it could not be helped.
it made me think of what you told me once.  in five years, the corleone family will be completely legitimate.  that was seven years ago.
are you klingman?
who is asking?
where can we talk?
right here.
i represent the interests of the corleone family.  we make the invitation to you to tie up your affairs and be out of the hotel by monday morning.
who do you think you are talking to?
you said you were klingman.
you do not come in here, talk to an owner in las vegas like that.
you missed my point; you are no longer an owner.
get out of my hotel.
i know what you are thinking, vitone, but you do not understand yet how things are.  fanucci is of the black hand.  everyone in the neighborhood pays him, even my father.
he is an italian?
a pig of a neaponitan.
why?  why does he bother other italians?
because he knows them; he knows they have no one to protect them. vitone?  what do you think of my angel?
beautiful.
beautiful.
for you, she is beautiful.  for me, there is only my wife!
i know.  that is why i brought you with me!
i bet you can not guess what happened?
what?
some guys from ninth avenue jumped fanucci today; slit his throat from ear to ear.
no, i did not know.  is he dead?
nah.  those guys are not murderers. they wanted to scare him, that is all.  make him look bad.
in sicily, when you attack a man, you had better finish him.
i wish they had.  he takes fifty dollars a week from my father's cash drawer.  but you can not kill a man like fanucci.
why?
because he is what we say... &quot;connected&quot;... you wait, see what happens to those guys from ninth avenue.
what did i tell you.  the one who cut him was found in an alley.  and the family of the others paid fanucci all their savings to make him forswear his vengeance.
and he agreed?
he took the money.  now he wants double from everybody in the neighborhood, including papa.
i have a friend who has a fine rug. maybe your wife would like it.
we have no money for a rug.
no.  he would give it away.  i know how to repay a consideration.
your friend lives in a fine building.
oh yes, the very best.
what took so long?
she could not decide.
otherwise the police will come to see you and your wife and children will be dishonored and destitute. of course, if my information as to your gains is incorrect, I will dip my beak just a little.  just a little, but no less than one hundred dollars, and do not try to deceive me, eh paisan?
my two friends have my share of the money.  I will have to speak to them after we deliver these to the wholesaler.
you tell your friends i expect them to let me wet my beak in the same manner.  do not be afraid to tell them.  clemenza and i know each other well, he understands these things.  let yourself be guided by him.  he has more experience in these matters.
you must understand, this is all new to me...
i understand...
but thank you for speaking to me as a godfather.
you are a good fellow.
do you think he would be satisfied with the two hundred dollars?  i think he would.
that scar-faced bastard will find out what we got from the wholesaler. he will not take a dime less than three hundred dollars.
what if we do not pay?
you know his friends...real animals. and his connections with the police. sure he would like us to tell him our plans so he can set us up for the cops and earn their gratitude. then they would owe him a favor; that is how he operates.  we will have to pay.  three hundred, are we agreed?
what can we do?
they say fanucci has a license from maranzalla himself to work this neighborhood.
if you like, why not give me fifty dollars each to pay fanucci.  i guarantee he will accept that amount from me.
vitone!  our driver has drunk too much wine.
he is going to kill fanucci.
then, after that, what?  joe 'little knife' pisani; willie bufalino, maybe, mr. maranzalla himself, c'mon!
fanucci is not connected; he is alone.
what?  you read it in the papers?
this man informs to the police; this man allows his vengeance to be bought off... no, he is alone.
i think there is only two hundred dollars under my hat.  I am right.  only two hundred dollars.
I am a little short.  I have been out of work.  let me owe you the money for a few weeks.
ah, you are a sharp young fellow. how is it I have never noticed you before  you are too quiet for your own interest.  i could find some work for you to do that would be very profitable.  no hard feelings, eh?  if i can ever do you a service let me know. you have done a good job for yourself tonight.
are you alright?
yes.
did you like your party?
i got lots of presents.
do you like them?
i did not know the people who gave them to me.
they were friends.
did you see my present for you?
no, where is it?
on your pillow.
I am leaving very early tomorrow, before you wake up.
i know.  how long will you be gone?
just a few days.
will you take me?
i can't.
why do you have to go?
to do business.
i can help you.
some day you will.
they are still on the property. maybe you better stay inside.
keep them alive.
we will try.
it is important.
your family all seem to be okay in the other houses; your mother's still sleeping.
and?
no sign of them yet; but they are still on the estate.
deanna, will you get back into the house!
I am getting out of here i said; these guys all have guns!
i do not want to stay here...
mike, what can i do, she is a hysterical woman...
leave her alone!  you are talking as though she has no right to be frightened when there are machine guns going off in her backyard.
have tom hagen meet me in the harbor house.
there is a lot i can not tell you, tom. i know that is upset you in the past; and you have felt that it was because of some lack of trust or confidence.  but it is because i do trust you that I have kept so much secret from you.  it is precisely that at this moment, you are the only one that i can completely trust.  in time, you will understand everything.
but your people... neri... rocco; you do not think...
no, i have confidence in their loyalty... but this is life and death, and tom, you are my brother.
mikey, i hoped...
no tom, just listen.  all my people are businessmen; their loyalty is based on that.  one thing i learned from my father is to try to think as the people around you think...and on that basis, anything is possible. fredo has a good heart, but he is weak...and stupid, and stupid people are the most dangerous of all.  I have kept you out of things, tom, because I have always known that your instincts were legitimate, and i wanted you to know very little of things that would make you an accomplice, for your own protection. i never blamed you for the setbacks the family took under sonny; i know you were in a position of limited power, and you did your best to advise and caution him.  what i am saying is that now, for how long i do not know, you will be the don. if what i think has happened is true; i will leave tonight, and absolutely no one will know how to contact me.  and even you are not to try to reach me unless it is absolutely necessary.  i give you complete power: over neri... fredo, everyone.  i am trusting you with the lives of my wife and children, and the future of this family, solely resting on your judgment and talent.
I have prepared this; have had it for over a month.  it will not explain everything; but indicates where i will be, so in a sense, it is my life.  also, there are three tasks that must be executed immediately.  pop would have given those to luca -- you knew pop as well as anyone, act as though you were him.  it discusses kay as well; that will be the most difficult.  the men who tried to kill me tonight, will never leave the estate.
will we...be able to get who ordered it out of them?
i do not think so.  unless I am very wrong...they're already dead. killed by someone inside...very frightened that they botched it. that is why i am going to disappear in a few minutes, and leave everything to you.
but if you are wrong...
if I am wrong...
...and the tape will be running.
actually, I have come with good news; the corleone family has done you a favor.
what the hell are you talking about?
we know you are a busy man, with plenty of enemies -- we saw the opportunity to do you a favor, and we did.  no strings.
no strings.
you know there is a senate investigating committee recently set up; we thought it would be unfortunate if they were to trace anything though-provoking to your name.
no one can trace anything to me; i pride myself on that.
do you gamble?
a little; what is so thought- provoking about that?
do you owe markers?
maybe two, three thousand dollars.
there is thirty grand worth of paid off markers -- i never owed that much.
our mistake.  but what does it matter; it was our money.  we do not even expect thanks.
you paid off thirty grand i never owed.
we will keep it quiet; the people who know are trustworthy...the committee need not find out.
and what is the price of their not finding out.
simple.  be friendly like us.  not hostile.
thanks...friend.
yes.
I am sorry, mrs. corleone.  we are not to let you through.
I am going to the market.
if you could just give us a list, we will pick up anything you want.
whose orders are these?
mr. hagen's, ma'am.
it is michael's request...for your safety.  we can send out for anything you need.
I am supposed to stay in my house.
within the compound will be fine.
i was supposed to take the children to new england next week.
that is off now.
I am going to see my parents.
kay, michael did not tell me a lot; and what he did tell me, i can not repeat.  but the responsibility for you and the kids was the most important thing he left me with.
how long does this go on?
i do not know.  I am sorry, kay...
am i a prisoner?
that is not the way we look at it.
sit down, this is almost over.  you follow the baseball games?
not for a few years.
i like sporting events -- i really enjoy watching them in the afternoon. one of the things i love about this country.  i loved baseball ever since arnold rothstein fixed the world series of 1919...i heard you had some trouble.
yes.
what a mistake; people behaving like that, with guns.  it was my understanding we left all that behind.  but, let me tell you, the important thing is that you are all right.  good health is the most important thing; more than success; more than power; more than money.
the incident of the other night is a nuisance that i can take care of. i came to you because i want nothing to affect our agreement; i wanted to clear everything I am going to do with you, just in case.
you are a considerate young man.
you are a great man, mr. roth, i have much to learn from you.
however i can help you...
the rosato brothers have performed services for you in the past; i understand that they are under your protection.
we do favors for each other...
technically, they are still under the clemenza wing of the corleone family, now run by frankie pentangeli.  after clemenza died, the rosatos wanted territory of their own.  pentangeli refused, and came to me, asking for permission to eliminate them.  i, of course, knew of their relationship with you, and in gratitude for your help with the tropicana matter, turned him down.  pentangeli was furious, and paid one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to have me killed. i was lucky and he was stupid. I will visit him soon.  the important thing is that nothing jeopardize our plans, yours and mine.  this thing of ours, that we will build.
nothing is more important.
pentangeli is a dead man; do you object?
it is always bad for business; but you have no choice.
then it is done.  i must choose his replacement: it cannot be rosato.
of course you must keep control of your family.
rosato, where is your brother?
sitting right behind you.
he do not want to talk?
we worked it all out beforehand.
are we going to eat or what?
sure, on me.  i got diner's club.
forget it; I am suddenly without an appetite.  you are making big trouble, carmine.
you were not straight with us, frankie, what else could we do?
we could have talked first, saved a lot of running around.
you was not listening, you did not want to talk.
do not i look like I am listening?
we want brooklyn one hundred percent.  no more taxes to you.  we want to be only loosely connected with your family -- sort of a under-family all of our own.  then we can act on all internal matters without talking.  also we want you to inform michael corleone that we can deal directly with him.
I am a little hungry, maybe I will order something.  joe.  get me some bracciole or something. and pay cash.  and in return for these concessions, what do you do for me?
we will release the hostages, number one.  number two, we are here for you to count on when you need us.  we are independent, but we are here if you need us.  in general, we will cooperate with you and your businesses, and you in turn will cooperate with us.  pari persu.
pari persu; what the fuck is pari persu...?
my lawyer went over this beforehand.
what assurances do i have that there will be no more kidnapping, no more hits?
the same assurance we got from you.
what if i say shove it?
then carmine fucillo and tony blue derosa will need to be fitted for slabs.
you want a war?
we got no choice.
you know if there is a way I will go to the commission and the commission will side with me.  that puts me and the other new york families against you.
we got friends in the commission.
I am talking about italians!
what about michael corleone?
he supports me.
maybe, yes... maybe no.
don corleone, i wish you let me know you was coming.  we could have prepared something for you.
i did not want you to know i was coming.  you heard what happened in my home?
michael, yes, we was all relieved...
in my home!  in the same room where my wife was sleeping; where my children come in their pajamas, and play with their toys.
i want you to help me take my revenge.
michael, anything.  what is it i can do for you?
i want you to settle these troubles with the rosato brothers.
i was just going to contact you, michael; we just had a 'sit-down' - in fact, i just come from there.
i want you to settle on their terms.
mike, i do not understand.  do not ask me to do that.
trust me; do as i ask.
it would be the beginning of the end for my family.  how can i keep all my other territories in like if i let two wise-guys stand up and demand this and that, and then give it to them?
frankie...do you respect me?  do i have your loyalty?
always... but sometimes i do not understand.  i know I will never have your kind of brains, in big deals. but mike, this is a street thing. and hyman roth in miami is behind the rosato brothers.
i know.
then why do you want me to lay down to them?
frankie, roth tried to have me killed.  I am sure it was him, but i do not know yet why.
jesus christ, michael, then let's hit 'em now, while we still got the muscle.
this was my father's old study. when i was a kid, we had to be quiet when we played near here. when i was older, i learned many things from him here.  i was happy that this house never went to strangers; first clemenza took it over, and then you.  my father taught me, in this room, never to act until you know everything that is behind things.  never.  if hyman roth sees that i interceded with you in the rosato brothers' favor, he will think his relationship with me is still sound.  I am going somewhere to meet him tomorrow.  we have friends in some very important business that we are making.  do this for me; you make the peace with the rosato brothers on their terms.  let the word out that i forced you; you are not happy wit hit, but acquiesced, just because of me.  it will get back to hyman roth.  do this, frankie.  you can trust me.
sure, mike.  I will go along.
good.
fifteen percent skim?
twenty-five this time.
it might show.
mike wants it.
we have never sent this much with one courier.
your plans are a little different this time.  you skip miami, and go straight to geneva.  it is to be deposited to this number.  and it is got to be there by monday morning, no slip-up.
what is up?
no questions.
i got to ask questions, tom, there is three million dollars cash in that pouch; mike is gone and i have no word from him.
al, as far as you are concerned, I am the don.
how do i know you have not gone into business for yourself?
hello?
she is gone, tom.
what do you mean gone?
the barretts from rubicon bay came by in a new speedboat.  rocco tried to say she was not in, but kay spotted them and asked if they would take her and the kids for a ride.  that was three hours ago.
why did not someone tell me!
i wanted to tell you alone; your wife does not know what is going on.
rocco!
i know.  i went down to the barrett house.  but she is gone.  they drove her and the kids to north tahoe airport.
goddamn it, where were you?
i was in my house.  willy tried, but it would have taken some strong-arm to stop her, and he figured you would not want that.
she took a flight to san francisco. we figure she is going to connect to new hampshire; her parents' place.
i can not let him down.
me too, tom?
yeah, give me a minute.
hiya, mr. corleone, I am sam roth. welcome to the capri; my brother's upstairs.  you wanta take a rest before you see him, or can i get you something, anything at all?
no, I am fine.
this is it!  we think it makes vegas look like the corner crap game.
very impressive.
jake, jake, come over here.  mike, i want you to meet jake cohen; he manages the casino for us.
i still do not speak spanish, michael.
it means... &quot;the lie.&quot;
enjoy.
i saw an interesting thing today. a man was being arrested by the military police; probably an urban guerrilla.  rather than be taken alive, he exploded a grenade hidden in his jacket, taking the command vehicle with him.
it occurred to me: the police are paid to fight, and the rebels are not.
so?
so, that occurred to me.
you have to be careful what you say in front of the others... they frighten easy.  it is always been that way, most men frighten easy.
we are making a big investment in cuba.  that is my only concern.
my concern is that the three million never arrived at batista's numbered account in switzerland. he thinks it is because you have second thoughts about his ability to stop the rebels.
the money was sent.
then you have to trace it.  michael, people here look at me as a reliable man.  i can not afford not to be looked on as a reliable man.  but you know all that; there is nothing you can learn from me.  you should not have to put up with a sick old man as a partner.
i would not consider anyone else.
except the president of the united states.
if only i could live to see it, kid; to be there with you.  how beautifully we have done it, step by step.  here, protected, free to make our profits without the justice department, the fbi; ninety miles away in partnership with a friendly government.  ninety miles, just a small step, looking for a man who desperately wants to be president of the united states, and having the cash to make it possible.
you will be there to see it; you will be there.
... he said he had shot his grandfather with a gun, and then he died in the garden.  and he asked me... he asked me, tom, if that meant now his father would shoot him out of... revenge.  how does a four year old boy learn the word... 'revenge'?
kay... kay...
what kind of a family is this... are we human beings?  he knows his father killed his uncle carlo.  he heard connie.
you do not know that is true.  but kay, just for the sake of an argument, let's assume it is, I am not saying it is, remember, but... what if i gave you what might be some justification for what he did... or rather some possible justification for what he possibly did.
that is the first time I have seen the lawyer side of you, tom.  it is not your best side.
okay, just hear me out.  what if carlo had been paid to help get sonny killed?  what if his beating of connie that time was a deliberate plot to get sonny out into the open? then what?  and what if the don, a great man, could not bring himself to do what he had to do, avenge his son's death by killing his daughter's husband?  what if that, finally, was too much for him, and he made michael his successor, knowing that michael would take that load off his shoulders, would take that guilt?
he is not the same as when i met him.
if he were, he would be dead by now. you would be a widow.  you would have no problem.
what the hell does that mean?  come on, tom, speak out straight once in your life.  i know michael can't, but you are not sicilian, you can tell a woman the truth; you can treat her like an equal, a fellow human being.
if you told michael what I have told you today, I am a dead man.
when is it finally over?  i want it to be over before my baby is born.
i do not know.  i hope soon; but it is not over yet, and that is why you and the kids have to come back to me.
what is this?
that is a lucky c note for our new deal.
hiya, freddie corleone.
mio fratello.
oh, 'scuse me.
it is all right.  he stays with me all the time.
oh.  mikey, what is up?  I am totally in the dark.
we are making an investment in havana.
great, havana's great.  lots of activity in havana!  anybody i know here.  five-angels?  anybody?
johnny ola... hyman roth.
i never met them.
pentangeli's dead.  he was ambushed by the rosato brothers.  did not you know that?
no.  no, i didn't.  who tells me anything?  i been kept in the dark so long, I am getting used to it.
i want you to help me, fredo.
that is what I am here for.
tonight i want to relax with you. the senator from nevada is here with some people from washington. i want to show them a good time in havana.
count on me; that is my specialty.
I would like to come along.  there is been a lot of strain, and I have been cooped up in this room for three days.
me and you, great!  gimme an hour to wash my face and do my research and we will have these washington suckers right where you want 'em.  poor frankie five-angels.  he always wanted to die in bed...with a broad.
this doubles my investment.
still no word of your courier? we will find him.  but at least this will satisfy our friends here. you have been invited to the new year reception at the presidential home. i understand your brother is here as well; i hope he will come.
six million dollars in cash is a high price for a piece of a country in the middle of a revolution.
you are a careful kid, and that is good.  but look.  an international dispatch on the wire service. american journalism, not propaganda. the government troops have all but eliminated the rebels.  all but their radio station.
I have read it; I am pleased that the government is doing so well.  as a heavy investor, I am pleased.  how did the doctor find you?
terrible.  I would give twice this amount to take a piss without it hurting.
who had frankie pantangeli killed?
why...the rosato brothers.
i know that; but who gave the go ahead.
i know it was not me...so that leaves you.
there was this kid that i grew up with; he was a couple years younger than me, and sort of looked up to me, you know.  we did our first work together, worked our way out of the street.  things were good and we made the most of it.  during prohibition, we ran molasses up to canada and made a fortune; your father too.  i guess as much as anyone, i loved him and trusted him. later on he had an idea to make a city out of a desert stop-over for g.i.'s on the way to the west coast. that kid's name was moe greene, and the city he invented was las vegas. this was a great man; a man with vision and guts; and there is not even a plaque or a signpost or a statue of him in that town.  someone put a bullet through his eye; no one knows who gave the order.  when i heard about it i was not angry.  i knew moe; i knew he was headstrong, and talking loud, and saying stupid things.  so when he turned up dead, i let it go, and said to myself: this is the business we have chosen. i never asked, who gave the go ahead because it had nothing to do with business.
jeeze, it is great you came along, mike... you know, we have never spent a night out on the town together. i always thought you looked down on me for liking a good time.
i never looked down on you, fredo. you do not look down at a brother.
they asked him to sign paper to take down the markers; but he got mad; told them to wait until he was finished.
let him gamble.
okay.  you know he does not have that kind of money.
mike, i got something special up my sleeve for these boys.  you ever hear of &quot;superman?&quot; and i do not mean the comic book.
no.
wait'll you see!
mikey, why would they ever hit poor old frankie five-angels?  i loved that ole sonuvabitch.  i remember when he was just a 'button,' when we were kids.  we used to put bedsheets on our heads, you know, like we were ghosts.  an' ole frankie come peek into our room, we would jump up, and he would always pretend like he was really scared. you remember?
it was hard to have him killed.
you?  what do you mean you, i thought...
it was hard to have him killed.
you?  what do you mean you, i thought...
it was frankie tried to have me hit.
no.  i mean, are you sure?
you know otherwise, freddie?
me?  no, no, i do not know anything. fellas!  you are all falling asleep. we got to see superman.
how is your wife, fredo...your marriage?
you know her; drives me crazy, one minute she is a popsicle, the next she is all vinegar.  sometimes i think... i think - i should a married someone, like you did.  to have kids, to have a family.
&quot;yo soy un hombre sincero...&quot; i am a sincere man, from the land of the palms...
what is that?
the song.  are you sincere with me, fredo?
sincere.  what are you talking about, of course I am sincere with you, mike.
then I am going to confide in you; trust you with something.
mike, are you crazy, I am your brother.
tonight we have been invited to a reception at the presidential palace; to bring in the new year. you and i will go in a special car that is being sent.  they will have cocktails... then dinner, and a reception with the president.  when it is over, it will be suggested that you take questadt and his friends from washington to spend the night with some women.  I will go home alone in the car; and before i reach the hotel, I will be assassinated.
...who?
the same man who tried in nevada... hyman roth, not pentangeli.
but, you told me yourself...
it was never pentangeli... I have always known that.  it was roth all along.  he talks to me as a son; as his successor, but the old man thinks he will live forever.
what do you want me to do?
to go tonight, with me, as though we know nothing.  I have already made my move.
what is it?  can i help?
the old man will never bring in the new year.
fredo.  where are you going?
nowhere, mike.  i wanted to get a refill.  how about you?
i have already rented the apartment to another family.
i told her i would speak to you, that you are a reasonable man who acted out of some misunderstanding. she has gotten rid of the animal that caused all the trouble, so why should not she stay.  as one italian to another, i ask you the favor.
I have already rented it; i cannot disappoint the new tenants.  they are paying a higher rent.
how much more a month?
eh...  five dollars more.
here is the six month's increase in advance.  you need not speak to her about it, she is a proud woman.  see me again in another six months. but of course, you will let her keep her dog.
like hell!  and who the hell are you to give me orders.  watch your manners or you will be on your sicilian ass in the street there.
the 'patrone' is here.
chi?
roberto.  who owns the 'rat-holes.'
excuse me, i hope i am not a disturbance, don corleone.
yes.
what a terrible misunderstanding. of course, signora colombo can stay in the flat.  who were those miserable tenants to complain about noise from a poor animal...when they pay such low rent.
your good heart in helping the poor widow has shamed me, and i want to show that i, too, have some christian charity.  her rent will remain what it was.
what was that?
in fact, reduced, bu five dollars!
i accept your generosity...
i will not keep you another minute...
who is the greatest man you can think of?
go on, answer him when he talks to you.  tell him: columbus, marconi... garibaldi.
mr. cicci.  from the year 1927 to the present time, you were an employee of the &quot;genco olive oil company.&quot;
that is right.
but in actuality, you were a member of the corleone crime organization.
the corleone family, senator.  we called it, &quot;the family.&quot;
what position did you occupy?
at first, like everybody, i was a soldier.
do you think they have somebody to back up cicci?
no.  but if they do have somebody, you will do three years for perjury if you give them so much as a wrong middle name.
did the boy get something from me for christmas?
i took care of it.
what was it, so I will know.
a little care he can ride in with an electric motor.
where is my brother?
roth got out on a private boat. he is in a hospital in miami.  had a stroke but he is recovered okay. bussetta's dead.
i asked about fredo?
the new government arrested him, held him for a couple of days with a lot of the other casino people, including roth's brother, sam.  the american embassy arranged flights for citizens; I am not sure, but i think he is somewhere in new york.
i want you to reach fredo.  i know he is scared, but have one of our people reach him.  assure him that there will be no reprisals.  tell him that i know roth misled him.
my information is that fredo thought it was a kidnapping.  roth assured him nothing would happen to you.
they can come in now.
wait... there is something else.
alright.
go on, tell me.
kay had a miscarriage; she lost the baby.
was it a boy or a girl?
mike, at three and a half...
what is it, can not you give me straight answers anymore!
it was a boy.
and kay...she's all right?
she took the senate investigation worse.
does she blame it on me?  the baby?
i do not know.
it is michael.  how are you, mom?
I am alright.  will you stay home for awhile?
there are still things i have to do.
well, we can all have a nice dinner together tonight.  how are your eyes?
alright.  they bother me once in awhile.  tell me, when pop had troubles... did he ever think, even to himself, that he had gone the wrong way; that maybe by trying to be strong and trying to protect his family, that he could... that he could... lose it instead?
you talk about the baby.  she can have another baby.
no, i meant lose his family.
your family?  how can you ever lose your family?
but times are different...
are you the son of vito corleone?
yes.
I am sure we all agree with our esteemed colleague.  now, mr. corleone, you have been advised as to your legal rights.  we have had testimony from a preceding witness who states you are head of the most powerful mafia family in this country.  are you?
no.
this witness has testified that you are personally responsible for the murder of a new york police captain in the year 1947 and with him a man named virgil sollozzo.  do you deny this?
i deny his every charge.
is it true that in the year 1950 you devised the murder of the heads of the five families in new york, to assume and consolidate your nefarious power?
that is a complete falsehood.
is it true that you own a controlling interest in three of the major hotels in las vegas?
that is not true.  i own some stock in some of the hotels, but only very small amounts.  i also own some american telephone and ibm stock.
mr. corleone, do you have any hotel interests in the state of arizona? or any gambling interests in that state?
i do not.
do you have interests or control over gambling and narcotics in the state of new york.
i do not.
senator, my client would like to read a statement for the record.
i do not think that is necessary.
sir, my client has answered every question asked by this committee with the utmost cooperation and sincerity.  he has not taken that fifth amendment as it was his right to do, and which because of the extreme legal complexity of this hearing, counsel advised him to do. so, i think in all fairness this committee should hear his statement and put it in the record.
very well.
ten to one shot, you said.  ten to one shot in my favor, and i lose.
get a good night's sleep.  we got a new suit, new shirt, new tie, and I am going to shave you myself. tomorrow we want you to look respectable for fifty million of your fellow americans.
my life will not be worth a nickel after tomorrow.
we have a special home for you for the rest of your life.  nobody gets near you.  you are not going any place.
yeah, some deal i made.
why did you do it, frankie?  after all these years, why did you turn against him?
i did not turn against nobody; he turned against me.
how did they get their hands on pentangeli?
roth engineered it, michael.  he made pentangeli think you hit him. deliberately letting him get off alive.  then the new york detectives turned frankie over to the fbi.  my informants say he was half dead and scared stiff -- talking out loud that you had turned on him and tried to kill him.  anyway, they had him on possession, dealing in heroin, murder one and a lot more. there is no way we can get to him and you have opened yourself to five points of perjury.
he says he does not know anything, and i believe him.  roth played this one beautifully.
alright.  I am going to go outside and talk to fredo.
i do not have a lot to say, michael.
we have time.
i was kept pretty much in the dark. i did not know all that much.
what about now, is there anything you can help me out with?
i know they get pentangeli, that is all i know.
i did not know it was a hit.  i swear to you i did not know.  johnny ola contacted me in beverly hills -- said he wanted to talk.  he said you and roth were in on some big deal, and there was a place for me in it if i could help them out. they said you were being tough on the negotiation, and if they had a little bit of help, they could close it fast and it would be good for you.
and you believed that story.
he said there was something good in it for me...me on my own.
I have always taken care of you.
taken care of me.  mike, you are my kid brother, and you take care of my.  did you ever think of that. ever once?  send fredo off to do this, send fredo to take care of that... take care of some little unimportant night club here, and there; pick somebody up at the airport.  mike, I am your older brother; i was stepped over!
it is the way pop wanted it.
it was not the way i wanted it!  i can handle things.  I am not dumb christ, not like everyone says. I am smart; and i want respect.
there is nothing more you can tell me about this investigation?
the lawyer; questadt, he belongs to roth.
you are nothing to me now, fredo; not a brother, not a friend, i do not want to know you, or what happens to you.  i do not want to see you at the hotels, or near my home.  when you visit our mother, i want to know a day in advance, so i will not be there.  do you understand?
ready, frankie.
let's go.
mr. hagen, would you kindly identify to this committee that gentleman sitting on your right hand?
yes, sir.  his name is vincenzo pentangeli.
is he related to the witness?
he is, i believe, a brother.
sir, the gentleman does not understand english.  he would not in any case, take the stand.  he came, at his own expense, to aid his brother in his trouble.  he is not under any jurisdiction of our government and his reputation in his own country is impeccable.
the witness is excused; take him out.
senator kane.
this meeting is adjourned.
this committee owes an apology!
the committee is adjourned until further notice.
on the phone?
no, she is here.
i had no idea...
i wanted to see you before you went back to nevada.  also, the children - michael, they are here.
where?
in a minute.  they are outside with esther.  I am very happy for you... i suppose i knew that you are simply too smart for anyone ever to beat you.
why do not you sit down?
I am not going to stay long; i can't.
there are a lot of things i want to talk to you about.  things I have been thinking about -- changes i want to make.
i think it is too late for changes, michael.  i promised myself i would not talk about it and I have gone and spoiled it.
why too late?
tell me, michael.  what really happened with pentangeli?
his brother came to help him.
i did not even know he had a brother. and where is he now?
on a plane back to sicily.
and that is all he had to do.  just show his face.
that is all.  you see, in sicily, in the old days... there was only one legitimate reason to kill a blood relative... only one.  if he was a traitor.
you would have killed his brother?
kay, you have got it wrong.  that kind of thing's all over, i promised you.  this was between the two brothers.  years ago frankie had a young girlfriend; he called her his co-wife.  that was his joke, but he meant it.  he would not divorce his wife... because she was a great cook.  he said he girlfriend made a spaghetti sauce once and it was so terrible he knew he could never marry her.  he set her up in a house in jersey.  she had to be faithful... and she had to have kids. and she did, two, a boy and a girl. he had her checked out and watched so she could not cheat... but the girl could not stand that kind of life.  she begged him to let her go. he did.  he gave her money and made her give up the kids.  then frankie took them to italy, and had them brought up by his brother vincenzo. where he knew they would by safe.
when he saw his brother in the hearing room, he knew what was at stake.  i do not think vincenzo would have done it.  he loves the kids, too. omerta, kay.  honor, silence.  it had nothing to do with me.  it was between those brothers.
I will bring the children up now; they want to say goodbye.
kay, i told you...
goodbye, michael.
i will not let you leave!  christ, do you think I am going to let you leave.
michael.
no, i do not want to hear anything. there are things between men and women that will not change; things that have been the same for thousands of years.  you are my wife, and they are my children... and i love you and i will not let you leave, because you are mine!
oh, i do feel things for you, michael; but now, i think it is pity. for the first time since I have known you, you seem so helpless.  you held me a prisoner once; will you try again?
if that is what it takes; then yes, i will.
at this moment, i feel no love for you at all.  i never thought that could happen, but it has.
we will go back tonight.  bring the children.
you have not heard me.
how can i let you leave; how can i let you take my children away? do not you know me?  you understand, it is an impossibility.  i would never let it happen; no, never, not if it took all my strength, all my cunning.  but in time, soon, you will feel differently.  you see, you will be happy that i stopped you.  i know you.  you will forget about this; you will forget about the baby we lost... and we will go on, you and i.
the baby i lost...
i know what it meant... and I am prepared to make it up to you.  i will make changes; i can.  i can change; that i have learned, that i have the strength to change... and we have another child, a boy... and you will forget the miscarriage.
it was not a miscarriage.  and you with your cunning, could not you figure it out!  it was an abortion; an abortion, like our marriage is an abortion, something unholy and evil.  i do not want your son; i would not bring another of your sons into this world.  an abortion, michael... it was a son, and i had it killed, but this must all end!
is kay coming?
no.
michael, fredo's in the house with mama.  he asked for you, and tom said he could not see you.
tom is right.
kids, why do not you go outside for a while?
i want to talk to you, michael.
the children can stay.
i hated you for so long, michael; for so many years.  i think i did things to myself, to hurt myself, so that you would know -- and you would be hurt too.  but i understand you now; i think i do.  you were being strong for all of us, like papa was.  and i forgive you, and want to be close to you now.  can not you forgive fredo; he is so sweet, and helpless without you.
you are going to talk to him now.
yes.
will you tell him?
i do not know.
sit down, tom.  have you heard about our friend and partner, mr. hyman roth?
i know he is in israel.
the high court of israel turned down his request to live as a 'returned jew.' his passport's been invalidated except for return to the u.s.  he landed in buenos aires yesterday, offered a gift of one million dollars if they would give him citizenship.  they turned him down.
he is going to try panama...
they will not take him; not for a million, not for ten million.
his medical condition is reported as... &quot;terminal.&quot;
he is been dying of the same heart attack for twenty years.
that plane goes to miami...
i want it met.
mike, it is impossible.  he will be met by the internal revenue; the customs service, and half the fbi.
i do not like it when you use the word impossible; nothing is impossible...
mike, it would be like trying to kill the president; there is no way we can get to him.
I am surprised at you, tom.  if there is anything certain; certain in life; if history has taught us anything, it is that you can kill...  anybody.  but perhaps your relucatance is because you have come to tell me that you are moving your family to vegas, that you have been offered the vice-presidency of the houstan hotels there.  or were not you going to tell me at all?
are you so hungry for traitors; do you want to find them everywhere?
they are everywhere!
i turned houstan down; i did not see why i should tell you about an offer i turned down.  are you sure, mikey?  are you sure of what we are doing; what we will gain; what does the family gain? forget that, mike; i already know the answer.
i know you do, tom.  then i can count on you to help me do the things i have to do.  if not, call houstan, and become a vice-president. take your family and your mistress and move them to las vegas.
why do you hurt me, michael?  I have always been loyal to you.
good.  then you are staying.
I am staying.  do not ever enjoy the cruel part of all this; sonny never listened to me about that.  now, explain everything to me.
i think i prefer to see my client privately.
the room has a bug in it.
I would like to go outside with him, in the open air.
everything is going to be okay, frankie, do not worry.
did my brother go back?
yeah, but do not worry.
he is ten times tougher than me, my brother.  he is old-fashioned.
yeah.  he would not even go out to dinner.  just wanted to go home.
that is my brother.  nothing could get him away from that two mule town.  he coulda been big over here -- he could of had his own family.
you are right.
tom, what do i do now?
frankie, you were always interested in politics, in history.  i remember you talking about hitler back in '43.  we were young then.
yeah, i still read a lot.  they bring me stuff.
you were around the old timers who dreamed up how the families should be organized, how they based it on the old roman legions, and called them 'regimes'... with the 'capos' and 'soldiers,' and it worked.
yeah, it worked.  those were great old days.  we was like the roman empire.  the corleone family was like the roman empire.
yeah, it was once.
the roman empire... when a plot against the emperor failed, the plotters were always given a chance to let their families keep their fortunes.
yeah, but only the rich guys.  the little guys got knocked off.  if they got arrested and executed, all their estate went to the emperor. if they just went home and killed themselves, up front, nothing happened.
yeah, that was a good break.  a nice deal.
do not worry about anything, frankie five-angels.
thanks, tom.  thanks.
you have grown so tall... so tall in the last year.  you are much taller than me.
i was taller than you when i was fourteen.
sit down.  your aunt connie and i waited for you to have some lunch, but now it is all dried out.
I am not hungry.
well, that is alright... alright. good.  you will graduate in another year, is not that right?  you know... i never finished college.  i was a good student, but i never finished. of course, there was a war then.
would you like some?
no, dad.
now what is this talk about joining the army?  eh?
it is not talk; I am doing it.
you would risk your life for strangers?
not for strangers; for my country.
anyone not in your family, is a stranger.  believe me, when trouble comes, your country will not take care of you.
that is how it was in the old world, pop, but this is not sicily.
i know.  i know, michael.  it is christmas, your brothers and sister are all here -- we are happy. let's not spoil this.  go your own way, but when you are ready, come to me the way a son should.  i have hopes for you...
