good thing it am not workin... reed, what are we doing here?  this guy's fast-food, strip-mall science --
this was not our first stop, in case you forgot nasa.  and victor's not that bad.  he is just a little...  larger than life.
he is financed some of the biggest breakthroughs of this century.
you would never know it.
but dreams do not pay the bills, do they?  same old reed, the hopeless optimist. still reaching for the stars, with the world on your back.
you remember in school we talked about working together.  that is what i was about to explain...
i can not take this.
ben.  this is business.  just work.
it is just business.
i think you both know my director of genetic research, susan storm.
you're, you've, i mean, how have you bee--
never better.
this is not going to be a problem, is it?
not at all.
you back this mission, and I will sign over a fair percentage of any applications or --
the number's seventy-five.  and it is applications and patents.
what about his first born?
ben, the money's not important.  we could save lives.
funny how things turn out, is not it?
hilarious.
if reed's right, then this little trip will double our stock offering.
and if he is not...?
reed's always right.  good thing he does not always know what he is got...
he knew about nasa.  what if he made the call to shut us down --
ben, think about all the people we can help if this works --
maybe you should think about yourself for once.  you always let this guy push you round --
we got what we wanted.  that is enough.
i know, i know.  I am just worried about what he wants... speaking of which...
those solar winds are flaring, but i factored them into my coordinates and --
i was talking about us.  working together.
well, uh, based on our history...you can handle the biogenetics, and I will focus on the molecular physics.  or, uhm, maybe i should take the biotech, you work the microscopes, since you have some background in electropho--
right.  that is exactly what i meant.
way to not overthink it.  so when do we leave?
I will schedule the launch.  call me in the morning to talk about resources and crew.
i, uh, think i remember the number.
it is been changed.
as far as crew, i was hoping ben could pilot the mission --
well, he is welcome to ride shotgun, but we already have a pilot on our payroll.  you remember my brother johnny...
can not do it.  i cannot do it.
external srbs, orbital system engines. its just like the shuttles you flew in --
no.  i cannot take orders from that underwear model.  that wingnut washed out of nasa for sneaking two victoria secret wannabes into a flight simulator.
youthful high spirits.
they crashed it into a wall.  a flight <i>simulator</i>.
I am sure he is matured since then.
when have i asked you to do something you absolutely said you could not do?
five times.
i had it at four.
this makes five.
i can handle the ship.  i can even handle mr. blonde ambition.  but i do not know if i should be flying or playing vegas in these suits.  who the hell came up with them?
victor did.
the synthetics act as a second skin, adapting to your individual needs to --
keep the hot side hot, and the cool side cool!
material made from self-regulating unstable molecules.  I have been working on a formula for this.
great minds think alike.
they are ready for you, sir.
showtime.
our numbers are through the roof.  the ipo's tracking at fifty, sixty a share.  the bank's five times oversubscribed --
it is not just the money.  i could make money in my sleep.
then what is it?
history, leonard.  history. everything else is conversation...  how is the other matter?
is not that your speech?
he is made a few changes.
this is your dream, reed.  you should be the one up there.
victor's better at these things.
I will be watching over you.
just get back soon, or i start looking for a new groom.
soon as I am back, I am going to trade that in for a bigger rock.
i do not care about rocks, i care about you.  you bring him back in one piece, or you can forget being best man.
what the hell you smiling at?  just keep your mouth shut, and your mind on those smbs --
actually, the engines are smes. hydrogenbase, carbon propellant. couple generations past your last ride.  I am not as dumb as you look.
if you behave, maybe next time daddy'll let you drive.
keep talking, there will not be a next time.
leonard, how is the feed?
recording, sir.  we see you perfectly.
we can monitor the cloud's approach and observe the tests from here.
is it safe?
the shields on the station should protect us.
should?
got it.  so take a walk, ben...i'm going to borrow susan for a second.
sure.
please tell me your dawg's not trying to rekindle things with my sister.
'course not.  strictly business.
yeah, well, his eyes say different.
hey, two hearts got busted last time. maybe she is not over it either.
let's see: you got victor, stud of the year, more coin than god?  or reed, the world's dumbest smart guy worth less than a postage stamp.  hmmm, it is a toss-up.
put your tiny little mind at ease.
do not you wander off, boy.
surprised i agreed to reed's proposal?
i understand the <i>business</i> reasons.
well, when you are looking at your future, it never hurts to find closure about the past.
it is been a good two years, victor... the company's accomplished so much.
right, of course, the company... but you see, I have come to realize all the accomplishments in the world mean nothing without someone to share them with --
uh, victor, i hope i have not done something to make you think...
sue, I have lived my life unafraid of taking big steps.  and this is the biggest step yet.  if it helps, think of this as a promotion.  a merger of sorts...  four little words that can change our lives...
we have got minutes until it hits, not hours...victor, that storm's deadly -- the radiation's lethal.  we need to abort.
get a grip.  reed.  we did not come all this way to lose our nerve at the first little glitch.  just close the shields...
ben's still out there --
so reel him in.  but we came here to do a job.  so let's do it.  quickly.
i am not done arranging your flowers, egghead.
ben.  this is serious.  turn around.
come on, ben, come on...
reed, we are running out of time.
not until ben is back inside!
it is too late for him, and soon it will be too late for all of us.
what are you doing?
raising the shields.
you can not leave them out there.
victor's right.  johnny, get to the command center.  close the shields.
what about you?
he is not responsive --
ben!  ben!
where...where am i?
back on earth.  victor's medical facility... we are in quarantine.
reed? ... sue?
they are fine.  everybody <i>else</i>...is fine.
what is wrong with me?
i swear to you they have done everything humanly possible.  the best plastic surgeons in the world, ben.  you had the best --
give me a mirror...
they said that is not such a good idea, the shock alone could --
give me the god damn mirror!
and where do we think we are going?
i do not know if "we've" noticed, but the sickest runs this side of the alps are <i>right outside that window</i> --
you are hot!
so are you!
i mean, you feel a little feverish.
I have never felt better in my life. when do you get off work?
my shift ends at four, but i could not --
meet me at 4:01, top of the run. that will give you a minute to freshen up.
how long was i out?
three days.  i was worried about you. how are you feeling?
solid.
i do not know.  i just keep going over and over the numbers.
reed.  even you can not compute every little thing.
i should have done more, run more tests --
you go through something like this, makes you appreciate having the right woman in your life.
yeah, you and debbie and perfect --
reed, I am not talking about debbie.
what?  come on.  she is got a good thing with victor --
I am sorry, did that cosmic-bath loosen your screws?
he is smart, powerful, successful --
well maybe you should date him.
me like-y.
stay right.  left is trouble.
i though we went over this.
last one down springs for room service.
you are on fire!
not this again --
no: you are on fire!
how is the ipo?
stable.  we are looking at low twenties.  it is a good number, considering the fallout from --
reed's disaster.  you know, i half- think he did this to me on purpose.
sir, I am sure he would not put himself --
get me on the am shows, larry king, cover of the journal...  I have got to do something about this scar.  make sure they only shoot my right side.
actually, uh, people seem to think the scar "humanizes" you.
and that is a good thing?
you know, maybe you should get some rest --
later.  first, I have got some unfinished business.  a deal that needs closing...
sir, I have always wondered... why sue? you could have any woman in the world but --
that's why.  because i could have any other woman... you know, when they asked caesar "why england," he said, "because it is not mine."
i can only stay for one drink, ben. I have got to meet with victor.
would not want to keep vic waiting.
are you alright?
i think i need to lie down.  bad shrimp.
feeling better?
yes, thanks.
that is good.  that is uh...good.
you always had a way with words.  i should be getting back.
you are happy for me and victor.
i can tell you guys are enjoying what was the best part of our relationship --
which was?
passion.
for science.
you are such a dork, reed... you never got it and never will unless it is explained to you in quantum physics.
uh, sue...?  i can't.
what?  what do you mean you --
sue...<i>look at your hands</i>.
it has to be the cloud.  it is fundamentally altered our dna.
let's not jump to conclusions, we need a <i>massive amount of evidence</i> before making that leap.
now what is up with <i>that</i>?
the cloud has fundamentally altered our dna.
cool.  what did it do to you guys?
apparently i can disappear.
please tell me you go silent too.
flame on, flame off.  flame on, flame off --
johnny.
stop it.
okay, "mom."
oh, you dawg you.  better not be my nurse!
ben, are you there?
what is that <i>thing</i>?
i think that thing is ben.
what is going on?
victor, are you feeling alright?
just a little banged up.  a couple scrapes.  why?
ben did this.
ben did this?
he is had some kind of...reaction to exposure from the cloud.  and he is not the only one.
victor, I am sorry i --
just find him.
deb... it is me.  i need you to step out front.
out front?  you home, baby?  i got a surprise for you.
ben?
do not come any closer for a sec.  this is going to be kind of a shock... you remember when we said "together forever no matter what"?
baby, you are scaring me.
oh my g-g-g.  what did you...do to ben?
deb, it is me.  it is still me.
make sure you find ben, bring him back here.  and keep it quiet.  i do not need this to hit the press.
yes sir.  you have got the mayor at eight, then a nine-thirty interview with the journal --
front page?
top left, like you asked.  today wall street.  tomorrow, who knows...maybe washington.
what?
we need to get past them.
sue.  your clothes.  lose them.
what...?  oh.
this is wrong in so many ways.
you have been working out.
what the --!
ben.  are you okay?
am i okay?!  you wanna explain that?!
ben grimm is a genuine american hero who is been through a terrible orde--
what he is trying to say is: every team needs a mascot...
we had a tough year.
yeah, nine years straight.
twenty?  from outside the place looks a lot taller.
oh, it is.
how come ben can not turn it on and off like us?
that is what we are here to find out.
if it happened to him, then it could...
wait.  you mean there is chance we could be full-on-24-7-fantastic?
grow up, johnny.  you want to run around on fire for the rest of your life?
is that a trick question?  c'mon, i can not be the only one who thinks this is cool.
we should stay here until we can define the extent of our changes...
this place is deluxe.  you got cable?
...and figure out how to reverse them. let me show you to your rooms.
victor, your scar --
i told you, I am fine.  it is you I am worried about.
I am sorry i did not get a chance to --
please, no apologies.  I have arranged for your things to be moved to one of my condos.  you will have round-the clock care.
I am starting to wonder the same thing... how much do you know about what happened to you?
not much.  we need to run tests to see the extent of the damage.
did not go as planned?  it was a catastrophe.  you ruined the lives of four people --
i ruined?  with all due respect, i told you to abort --
abort?  reed, i put my company, my name, billions of dollars on the line, and i will not let you make me look like a fool --
victor, if we could understand what happened to us --
i do not want to understand it.  this is not one of your science projects.  i just want to fix it.  fast!
you got a chisel round here?
if we are going to identify the source of the mutation, we need to isolate your recombinant dna so we can activate positional genomes.
we need to give you a physical, so we know what got zapped.
well why did not you say so?  you want me to lift some weights or something?
back it down, johnny!
i can go hotter!
you are really cramping my style here.
you were at 4000 kelvin.  any hotter, you are approaching supernova --
sweet.
that is the temperature of the sun.
not only could you kill yourself, but you could set fire to earth's atmosphere and destroy all human life as we know it.
gotcha.  okay.  supernova bad.
okay.  I have uh, got some questions, from sue.  that she thought might be better coming from me... can you, you know, go to the bathroom...like normal...
yeah.  you do not wanna know the details.
ben, I am afraid I have got to ask --
not unless you want that clipboard stretched up your --
o-kay.  we will skip that question.
is there something about flames? about flaming, that you --
what are you trying to say?  just because i dress well and like to dance --
what?  no.  I am trying to figure out why we each ended up with different symptoms.
oh, well that is easy: I am hot. you're...well, you are a little limp. sue's easy to see through.  and ben's always been a hardass.  why are not you writing this down?
it is not "invisibility" per se. you are bending the light around you with some kind of malleable force field.  that is what you projected on the bridge.
what about you?  you have not eaten in days.  how come you are never on this side of the microscope?
you should be able to bend light around other objects, even people, if you could control your emotional state better --
excuse me?
I am saying, if you had a little more self control, you could locate the trigger.  can you remember the exact emotions when --
anger.  rage.  frustration.
okay.  is there any way to duplicate that feeling?  some memory or...
I am sure i can come up with something.
I am sorry, I am sorry, i did not mean to do that... you must think that was some kind of latent hostility or --
what in the world would give me that idea?
i mean, you broke up with me, right?
are you kidding?
no, i distinctly remember: you walked out my door.  ergo...
reed.  i was ready for the next step, you weren't, ergo, i walked.
i think it was a little more complicated than --
i just wanted to share an apartment. what was so complicated about that?
there were a lot of variables to consider --
no.  there weren't.  there was you. and me.  no variables, no math.  it was actually the simplest thing in the world.  but your head got in the way... like it always does.
you look like an eighties rock band.
the suit will stretch.  you should try it --
i would not be caught dead in that.
he is right.  these costumes are... missing something.  i can not put my finger on it --
they are not costumes.
your tissue, your organs, your entire biophysical structure is changing. every system is still functioning, somehow --
and they are changing into...
i do not really know.  a compound organic-metallic alloy.  stronger than titanium or carbon steel.  harder than diamonds --
like the shields reed said would protect us.  how long?
at this rate, the infection should be complete in two, maybe three weeks --
what do you mean "complete"?
i wish i could tell you.  i can not pretend to know what we are dealing with here.  I will notify the cdc and --
what?
the center for disease control.  if this thing is contagious --
but...this disease...is progressive... degenerative...
that is terrible news...
what are you doing?
the plants, from space.  their particles are still charged.  with the right amount of energy, those ions could create the elemental profile of the cosmic storm.
if we can build a machine to re-create the storm, we can reverse the polarity --
and reverse the mutations --
curing countless diseases, not just ours.
but we're the focus, right reed? reed...?
of course.  of course.
and you sure you can control this thing?  last time did not work out so well.
with the right energy, we can stabilize the storm.  maybe tie into the city grid...
what did you wish for, honey?
i already got it.  everything i want.
that is what I am trying to calculate. and it is not rubber.  it is muscle, tendon.  i seem to have the ability to manipulate the malleability of my molecular structure and redistribute my density to --
right, whatever, have fun.
i do not think she is real big on hate.
you would not say that, if you could see me.
such a sad face... you know, sometimes being different is not a bad thing.
trust me, this am not one of those times.
you said it was urgent.
it is.  there is something we need to talk about.  something i need to ask you...
victor, wait, slow down a second.  i want you to know i appreciate everything you have done for me, but i just do not --
susan.  what are you doing?
he is working round the clock.  but the data needs to be tested, analyzed before --
same old reed.  all analysis, no action.  was not that the problem with you two?
if these molecules are not stable, they could make us worse, maybe even kill us.
then why is reed dragging his feet? maybe he likes having his prize specimen under glass...  it is ironic, is not it?  you are finally the perfect woman for him...because you are his science project.
please do not make this personal --
oh, i think you already have.
victor, we can't do anything until the research is ready.
reed.  how close are we to a cure?
no way to know.  without more tests, experiments.
he didn't.
oh, he did.
what did he do to the uniform?!
uh, we call my sister the invisible girl...the invisible girl.
girl...?!
I am driving.
dude.  that is my sister.
you are going to pay for that, pebbles.  what?!
you gave us names?  what are you, the "face" of the fantastic four now?
it is about to be a broken face.
this is not permanent, johnny.  we need to be careful until we are normal again.
you two need a time-out.
blockhead started it!
you need to control yourself and think before you --
act.  here we go again.  reed, what if we got these gifts for a reason?  what if we have some, you know...like, calling?
a higher calling like getting girls and making money?
he did not mean it.  you know johnny. he is always been a hothead --
it is not him.  it is them.  i can not live like this.
just give reed a little more time. you know how he works -- analyzing every little step before he takes one --
it is easy for you to be patient.
no, it is not.  i thought i was done waiting for reed... we are all in this together now, ben.
what are you doing here?
what i should have done a long time ago.  applications and patents, reed. this all belongs to me.
but I am not done with the machine --
which is precisely the point. analysis is over.  it is time for action.  my men could have mass- produced this by now.
do not let victor push you into making a mistake --
he was going to take away all my data, equipment --
better than your life.  victor's not the one who has to get into that thing.  we are.
which is why I am working twenty hours a day, checking every variable --
every variable but yourself.  you do not eat, sleep.  you can not live in your head like --
i'm not the only one in there.  i got you, vic, ben, johnny, all rattling around in there.
how did you know it was me?
I am blind, not deaf.  wanna come in?
I am not really dressed for a party.
relax, it is casual.
no, i mean...i'm a little...dusty...
those yours too?
my step-dad's.  I am strictly into stone.  i was wondering when you would walk by.
you know, you could'a run an ad in the personals.
"sensual blind chick seeks three-ton, rock-hard he-man for deep spiritual relationship."
this am not permanent.  my friend reed's working on a cure...i think.
you do not know what it is like out there.  walking around like some kind of circus freak.  people staring, whispering --
i would not know anything about that.
i mean...
tell me.  when you grew up in brooklyn, how many astronauts did you know?  you went your own way then.  you did not listen to people.  so why start now...?
i could get ben to tap into the baxter's main power to generate enough voltage --
reed.  shh.  just be quiet.  and look up.
remember our first date here...?  god, i was so nervous.
you were?
of course i was.  I would read all your papers on bioethics.  some of them two times just so I would have something to say to you.
you know, i bribed the projectionist ten bucks to keep it open late?
i gave him twenty.
you always talked about how you liked the kind of man who could approach you...speak his mind.  one who was not afraid to tell you what he wanted.
i did.  i did, reed...but i wanted you to be that man.
when i walked out, i waited ten minutes outside your door.  ten. waiting for you to come find me.
why did not you say something?
that would have kinda defeated the purpose.  and reed...  I am saying it now.
what are you doing here?
I am worried about you.
about me?  how sweet.
come on.  let me buy you something to eat.  looks like you could use the company.
'scuse me.
i know it can not be easy.  life has not changed that much for reed, sue and johnny.  at least they can go out in public.  but for you?  people staring. whispering behind your back...
if you are trying to cheer me up you are doing a helluva job --
I am just saying, i know what it is like to lose something you love.  to see it slip away, and know it is never coming back.
reed's going to fix me up --
for your sake i hope you are right. I am sorry if that sounds a little skeptical.
skeptical...?
ben --
oh, you remember my name do you?  you happen to remember what you swore to do with every breath in your body?
we are working as hard as we can --
yeah.  i can tell.  victor was right.
glad "nothing" could take you away from your work.
ben, i do not know if this thing'll change us back or make us worse. i need you to be patient for a little while longe--
hey!  that is a prototype!
go back to the drawing board.
johnny?  did you see ben?
yeah, for the last time, i hope.  I am done with this freak show.  I am moving back to the real world.
is that what you call it?  "<i>real</i>"?
at least it beats living in a lab like somebody is science project.
johnny, slow down.  think.  you know mom did not raise us to --
look around, sis!  she's not here.  so you can stop talking to me like I am your little boy --
as soon as you stop acting like one. come on, you are smarter than this. you think those people out there care about you?  you are just a fad to them.
i can...make it work.
reed, stop, you need to rest your --
the power...i need...more power...to control...the storm --
you need a doctor.
ben, come in.
what is this?  where is reed?
where do you think?  with sue.
what do you want, vic?
to help you.  I have run every test known to man.  and they all yield the same result: the machine is ready.
reed said it would be weeks till --
he also said we would avoid that storm in space.  and we know how that turned out.
he could not generate enough power for the machine to reach critical mass. yet another mistake for "mr. fantastic."
and you can?  power it up?
I am sorry, sis, for leaving you guys --
no, i'm sorry, for pushing you out.
the machine works.  and vic's gone mister hyde on us --
really?  with a name like von doom? never saw that one coming.
where is reed?
victor must have taken him.
what are you doing --
sis.  let me take care of you for once.
but johnny...you can't fly.
johnny.  supernova.
but all these people...
now.
sue, i need some of that anger, rage, frustration --
I am sure i can come up with something.
time for your lesson, vic.  chem 101: what happens when you supercool hot metal...?  ben...
got it, teach.
ben, I have been crunching the numbers on the machine.  i think if we can rework the power settings...
forget it, egghead.  I am good as is.
we are going to have to work on your touch.
i like the sound of that.
i found a broken gasket, from space --
a gasket?  reed, we are at a party.
no more cracks about how i look.
hey, I am mr. sensitivity now.  clear the way, wide load coming through.
