damn, clarice, how did you make me?
never cock. just squeeze.
i love it when you talk dirty.
what did i do?
stay cool. just remember to call him "god."
starling, clarice m., good morning.
good morning, mr. crawford.
your instructors tell me you are doing well. top quarter of the class.
i hope so. they have not posted anything.
a job's come up and i thought about you. not really a job, more of - an interesting errand. walk me to my car, starling.
we are trying to interview all of the serial killers now in custody, for a psychobehavioral profile. could be a big help in unsolved cases. most of them have been happy to talk to us. they have a compulsion to boast, these people... do you spook easily, starling?
not yet.
you see, the one we want most refuses to cooperate. i want you to go after him again today, in the asylum.
who is the subject?
the psychiatrist - dr. hannibal lecter.
yes, well... okay, right. I am glad for the chance, sir, but - why me?
you are qualified and available. and frankly, i can not spare a real agent right now.
now. i want your full attention, starling. are you listening to me?
yes sir.
be very careful with hannibal lecter. dr. chilton at the asylum will go over the physical procedures used with him. do not deviate from them, for any reason. you tell him nothing personal, starling. believe me, you do not want hannibal lecter inside your head... just do your job, but never forget what he is.
and what is that, sir?
I am sure it is a great town, dr. chilton, but my instructions are to talk to lecter and report back this afternoon.
i see.  let's make this quick, then. I am busy.
lecter carved up nine people - that we are sure of - and cooked his favorite bits. we have tried to study him, of course - but he is much too sophisticated for the standard tests. and my, does he hate us! thinks I am his nemesis... crawford's very clever, is not he? using you.
how do you mean, dr. chilton?
a pretty young woman, to turn him on? i do not believe lecter's ever seen a woman in eight years. and oh, are you ever his "taste" - so to speak.
i graduated magna from uva, doctor. it is not a charm school.
good. then you should be able to remember the rules.
do not reach through the bars, do not touch the bars. you pass him nothing but soft paper - no pens or pencils. no staples or paperclips in his paper. use the sliding food carrier, no exceptions. do not accept anything he attempts to hold out to you. do you understand me?
i understand.
I am going to show you why we insist on such precautions... on the afternoon of july 8, 1981, he complained of chest pains and was taken to the dispensary. his mouthpiece and restraints were removed for an ekg. when the nurse bent over him, he did this to her...
dr. chilton - if lecter feels you are his enemy - as you have said - then maybe I will have more luck by myself. what do you think?
you might have suggested that in my office, and saved me the time.
but then i would have missed the pleasure of your company.
doctor, we have a hard problem in psychological profiling. i want to ask for your help with a questionnaire.
"we" being the behavioral science unit, at quantico. you are one of jack crawford's, i expect.
i am, yes.
may i see your credentials?
that expires in one week. you are not real fbi, are you?
I am - still in training at the academy.
jack crawford sent a trainee to me?
we are talking about psychology, doctor, not the bureau. can you decide for yourself whether or not I am qualified?
mmmmm... that is rather slippery of you, officer starling. sit. please.
now then. what did miggs say to you?  "multiple miggs," in the next cell. he hissed at you. what did he say?
he said - "i can smell your cunt."
i see. i myself cannot. you use evyan skin cream, and sometimes you wear l'air du temps, but not today. you brought your best bag, though, did not you?
yes.
it is much better than your shoes.
maybe they will catch up.
i have no doubt of it.
did you do those drawings, doctor?
yes. that is the duomo, seen from the belvedere. do you know florence?
all that detail, just from memory...?
memory, officer starling, is what i have instead of view.
dr. lecter, if you would please consider -
no, no, no. you were doing fine, you would been courteous and receptive to courtesy, you would established trust with the embarrassing truth about miggs, and now this ham-handed segue into your questionnaire. it will not do. it is stupid and boring.
I am only asking you to look at this, doctor. either you will or you won't.
jack crawford must be very busy indeed if he is recruiting help from the student body. busy hunting that new one, buffalo bill... such a naughty boy! did crawford send you to ask for my advice on him?
no, i came because we need -
how many women has he used, our bill?
five... so far.
all flayed...?
partially, yes. but doctor, that is an active case, I am not involved. if -
do you know why he is called buffalo bill? tell me. the newspapers will not say.
I will tell you if you will look at this form.  it started as a bad joke in kansas city homicide. they said... this one likes to skin his humps.
witless and misleading. why do you think he takes their skins, officer starling? thrill me with your wisdom.
it excites him. most serial killers keep some sort of trophies.
i didn't.
no. you ate yours.
oh, officer starling... do you think you can dissect me with this blunt little tool?
no. i only hoped that your knowledge -
you see a lot, dr. lecter. but are you strong enough to point that high- powered perception at yourself? how about it...? look at yourself and write down the truth.  or maybe you are afraid to.
you are a tough one, are not you?
reasonably so. yes.
and you would hate to think you were common. my, would not that sting! well you are far from common, officer starling. all you have is the fear of it.  now please excuse me. good day.
and the questionnaire...?
a census taker once tried to test me. i ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti... fly back to school, little starling.
i would not have had that happen to you. discourtesy is - unspeakably ugly to me.
then please - do this test for me.
no. but i will make you happy... I will give you a chance for what you love most, clarice starling.
what is that, dr. lecter?
advancement, of course.  go to split city. see miss mofet, an old patient of mine. m-o-f-e-t... now go. go.  i do not think miggs could manage again so soon, even if he is crazy - do you?
phone call, clarice. it is god.
thanks, ardelia.
you missed fourth amendment law. unlawful seizure, real juicy stuff. where were you all afternoon?
pleading with a crazy man, with come all over my face.
I have read your interim memo on lecter. you sure you have left nothing out?
it is all there, sir, practically verbatim.
every word, starling? every gesture?
right down to the kleenex i used.  sir, why? is something wrong?
he mentioned a name, at the very end. "mofet..." any followup on her?
i spent all evening on the mainframe. lecter altered or destroyed most of his patient histories, prior to capture. no record of anyone named mofet. but "split city" sounded like it might have have something to do with divorce. i tracked it down in the library's catalogue of national yellow pages.  it is a mini-storage facility outside baltimore, where lecter had his practice.
well? why are not you there right now?
sir, that is a field job. it is outside the scope of my assignment. and I have got a test tomorrow on -
do you recall my instructions to you, starling? what were they?
to complete and file my report by 0800 wednesday. but sir -
then do that, starling. do just exactly that.
sir, what is it? there is something you are not telling me.
miggs has been murdered.
murdered...? how?
the orderly heard lecter whispering to him, all afternoon, and miggs crying. they found him at bed check. he would swallowed his own tongue... chilton is scared stiff the family will file a civil rights lawsuit, and he is trying to blame it on you. i told the little prick your conduct was flawless.  starling...?
I am here, sir, i just - i do not know how to feel about it.
you do not have to feel any way about it. lecter did it to amuse himself. why not, what can they do? take away his books for awhile, and no jello...  i know it got ugly today. but this is your report, starling - take it as far as you can. on your own time, outside of class. now carry on.
not to my knowledge. privacy is a great concern to my customers. but, if you say this is an fbi matter...
i will not disturb anything, mr. yow, i promise. be gone before you know it.
mr. yow, if this door should fall down -ha ha! - or anything else - would you be kind enough to call this number? it is our baltimore field office. they know you are here with me... do you understand?
might i suggest tucking your pants into your socks? to prevent mouse intrusion.
good idea.
okay, miss starling?
okay, mr. yow...
you are playing a piano, miss starling?
that was not me.
oh.
mr. yow? oh mr. yow...? it looks like somebody is sitting in this car.
oh my! oh my... maybe you better come out now, miss starling.
not yet! - just wait for me.  maybe in about two seconds.
your bleeding has stopped.
how did -  it is nothing. a scratch.
why do not you ask me about buffalo bill?
why? do you know something about him?
i might if i saw the case file. you could get that for me.
why do not you tell me about "miss mofet?" you wanted me to find him. or do i have to wait for the lab?
his real name is benjamin raspail. a former patient of mine, whose romantic attachments ran to, shall we say, the exotic...? i did not kill him, merely tucked him away. very much as i found him, in that ridiculous car, in his own garage, after he is missed three appointments. you would have him under "missing person" - which, in poor raspail's case, could hardly be more true.
if you did not kill him, then who did?
who can say...? best thing for him, really. his therapy was going nowhere.
would not it have been easier to just leave him for the police to find?
and have them clomping about in my life? oh dear, no... at that time i still had certain private amusements of my own.  how did you feel when you saw him, clarice? may i call you clarice?
scared, at first. then - exhilarated.
ahhh... why?
because you were not wasting my time.
do you have something you use, when you need to get up your courage? memories, tableaux... scenes from your early life?
i do not know. next time I will have to check.
jack crawford is helping your career, is not he? apparently he likes you. and you like him, too.
i never thought about it.
your first lie to me, clarice. how sad. tell me - do you think crawford wants you, sexually? true, he is much older, but - do you think he visualizes... scenarios, exchanges...? fucking you?
that does not interest me, doctor. and it is the sort of thing miggs would ask.
not anymore.  surely the odd confluence of events has not escaped you, clarice. crawford dangles you before me. then i give you a bit of help. do you think it is because i like to look at you, and imagine how good you would taste...?
i do not know. is it?
or does not this all begin to suggest to you a kind of... negotiation? there is something crawford can give me, and i want to trade for it. i even wrote to him, offering my help. but he hates me, so he will not deal directly.
punishment, you see. for miggs. just like that gospel program. when you leave, they will turn the volume way up. chilton does enjoy his petty torments.
who killed raspail, doctor...? you know, do not you?
I have been in this room for eight years, clarice. i know they will never, ever let me out while I am alive. what i want is a view. i want a window where i can see a tree, or even water. i want to be in a federal institution, away from chilton - and i want a view. I will give good value for it. crawford could do that for me, but he won't. you persuade him.
who killed your patient?
oh, a very naughty boy. someone you and jack crawford are most anxious to meet.
buffalo bill...?  bill killed him, all those years ago...? that is impossible.
get your field gear, take stuff for overnight. you are goin' with crawford.
where?
some fishermen in west virginia found an unidentified girl's body. it is a buffalo bill-type situation. been in the water about a week, and jack needs somebody that can print a floater. think you can handle it?
I will need the big fingerprint kit... and the one-to-one polaroid, the cu- 5, with film packs and batteries.
jack's pretty tough on you, is not he? impatient...
sometimes.
he is got a lot on his mind besides buffalo bill... his wife, bella, is real sick. comatose... I am tellin' you about it now, 'cause he may never.
wear it, do not ever leave it in your purse. dry fire it whenever you get the chance. and do your exercises.
i will... i promise.
listen, i hope you never need a thing I have taught you. but you have got something... jack sees it, i do too. if you ever need to, you can shoot.
blue square for belvedere, ohio, where the bimmel girl was abducted. blue triangle where her body was found - down here in missouri. same marks for the other four girls, in different colors. this new one, today... washed up here.  elk river, in west virginia, about six miles below u.s. 79. real boonies.
there is no correlation at all between where they are kidnapped and where they are found...?  what if - what if you trace the heaviest-traffic routes backwards from the dump sites? do they converge at all?
good idea, but he thought of it, too. we have run simulations, using different vectors and the best dates we can assign. you put it all in the computer, and smoke comes out. no, this one is different. this one has seen us coming...
talk about him, starling. tell me what you see.
he is a white male... serial killers tend to hunt within their own ethnic group. and he is not a drifter - he is got his own house, somewhere. not an apartment.
why?
what he does with them - takes privacy... time, tools... he is in his 30's or 40's - he is got real physical strength, but combined with an older man's self-control. he is cautious, precise, never impulsive... this will not end in suicide, like they often do.
why not?
he is got a real taste for it now. and he is getting better at his work.
maybe you have got a knack for this... i guess we are about to find out.
like i have a "knack" for dr. lecter?
okay, starling. let's have it.
you have not said a word today about that garage. or what i found there.
what should i say? you did fine work. we will wait on the lab.
you knew. you knew from the start that lecter held the key to this... but you were not up front with me. you sent me in to him naked.
are you finished?
he starts this - buzzing in me, in my head. he makes me feel violated... you used me, mr. crawford.
what do you see, starling?
well, she is not local. her ears are pierced three times each, and she is wearing green glitter nail polish. looks like town to me...
i do not know. i did not see those on any of the other girls...
they were not there. get close-ups.
when i told that sheriff we should not talk in front of a woman, that really burned you, did not it?  that was just smoke, starling, i had to get rid of him. you did well in there.
it matters, mr. crawford... other cops know who you are. they look at you to see how to act... it matters.
point taken.
when we get back, i want you to run that bug by the smithsonian, see if they can identify it. maybe it is got some limited range, or it only breeds at certain times of year... you found it, starling, you deserve the credit.
I am wondering if he is done that before - placed a cocoon, or an insect. it would be easy to miss in an autopsy, especially with a floater... can we check back on that?
the other girls are in the ground. exhumations are upsetting for the families. I will do it if i have to, but -
then have the lab check raspail's head.  dr. lecter's patient - have them probe his soft-palette tissues... they will find another cocoon.
you seem pretty sure of that.
raspail was killed by the same man who is killing these girls. and lecter knows him. maybe even treated him... you think so, too, do not you? or you would never have sent me to that asylum.
boy, is that smart...
why does she keep repeating the name?
somebody is coaching her... they are trying to make him see catherine as a person - not just an object.
time, pilch! my move.
no fair! you lured him with produce.
of course it counts. how do you play?
officer starling. welcome back.
your west virginia specimen gave us quite a bit of trouble, but i finally managed to narrow his species through chaetaxy - studying the skin.
I am the one who found his perforating proboscis! are you wearing a gun, right now?  ooh, cool! can i see it? can i?
just ignore him. he is not a ph.d.
what do you do when you are not detecting, officer starling?
i try to be a student, dr. pilcher.
ever get out for cheeseburgers and beer? the amusing house wine...?
not lately. but maybe someday.
better known to his friends as the death's-head moth...
the latin name comes from two rivers in hell. your man - he drops these girls into rivers, every time. did not i read that?
and there is no way - no natural way - these could have wound up in the bodies?
they live in malaysia. in this country, they would have to be specially raised, from imported eggs.
dr. lecter...
but for catherine martin, it all comes down to you and lecter. you are the one he talks to.
he is already offered to help... what would happen if we just showed our cards - asked him for bill?
he offered to help, starling, not to snitch. that would not give him enough chance to show off. remember, lecter looks mainly for fun. never forget fun.
but if he knew we have so little time -
if we act too anxious, he will make us wait. he will let the senator keep hoping, day after day, until catherine finally washes up. that would be the most fun of all.
i think he means it, this time. i think he will deal.
what would it take?
transfer to a new prison. with a view of trees, he said, or even water... can we swing that?
state to federal jurisdiction... we can do it - eventually - but we will never get all the clearances in time. can you convince him a deal's already in place?
you will back me up with some paperwork?  then I will try. but would not this have more weight coming from the senator herself?
she does not know what we are up to. and we can not afford to let her find out.
what you are doing, miss starling, is coming into my hospital to conduct an interview, and refusing to share information with me. for the third time!
dr. chilton, i told you - this is just routine follow-up on the raspail case.
he is my patient! i have rights!  I am not just some turnkey, miss starling. i should not even be here this afternoon. i had a ticket to holiday on ice.
i was your choice, dr. lecter. you chose to speak to me. would you prefer someone else now? or perhaps you do not think you can help us.
that is both impudent and untrue... tell me, how did you feel when you viewed our billy's latest effort?  or should i say, his "next-to-latest"?
by the book, he is a sadist.
life's too slippery for books, clarice. typhoid and swans came from the same god.  tell me, miss west virginia - was she a large girl?
yes.
big through the hips. roomy.
they all were.
mmm. and what else...?
she had an insect deliberately inserted in her throat. that has not been made public yet. we do not know what is means.
was it a butterfly?
a moth... how did you predict that?
I am waiting for your offer, clarice. enchant me.
"plum island animal disease research center." sounds charming.
that is just part of the island. it has a very nice beach. terns nest there.
terns... if i help you, clarice, it will be "turns" with us, too. quid pro quo. i tell you things, you tell me things. not about this case, though - about yourself. yes or no?  yes or no, clarice. catherine is waiting. tick-tock, tick-tock...
go, doctor.
what is your worst memory of childhood?  quicker than that. I am not interested in your worst invention.
the death of my father.
tell me. do not lie, or I will know.
he was a town marshal... one night he surprised two burglars, coming out the back of a drugstore... they shot him.
killed outright?
no. he was strong, he lasted almost a month. my mother - died when i was very young, so my father had become - the whole world to me... after he left me, i had nobody. i was ten years old.
you are very frank, clarice. i think - it would be quite something to know you in private life.
quid pro quo, doctor.
the significance of the moth is change. caterpillar into cocoon into beauty... billy wants to change, too, clarice. but there is the problem of his size, you see. even if he were a woman, he would have to be a big one...
dr. lecter, there is no correlation in the literature between transsexualism and violence. transsexuals are very passive.
clever girl. you are so close to the way you are going to catch him - do you realize that?
no. tell me why.
after your father's death, you were orphaned. what happened next?  i do not imagine the answer's on those second-rate shoes, clarice.
i went to live with my mother's cousin and her husband in montana. they had a ranch.
a cattle ranch?
horses - and sheep...
how long did you live there?
two months.
why so briefly?
i - ran away...
why, clarice? did the rancher fuck you?
no.
did he try to?
no...! quid pro quo, doctor.
billy's not a real transsexual, but he thinks he is. he tries to be. he is tried to be a lot of things, i expect.
you said - i was very close to the way we would catch him.
there are three major centers for transsexual surgery: johns hopkins, the university of minnesota, and columbus medical center. i would not be surprised if billy has applied for sex reassignment at one or all of them, and been rejected.
on what basis would they reject him?
the personality inventories would trip him up. rorschach, wechsler, house-tree-person... he would not test like a real transsexual.
how would he test?
that is enough, i think. happy hunting. oh, and clarice - next time you will tell me why you ran away. shall i summarize?
yes, doctor. please.
I am not having a witch hunt here, mr. crawford! our patients are decent, non-violent people with a real problem.
dr. danielson, the man we want was never your patient. it would be someone you refused because he tries to conceal a record of criminal violence. please, doctor - time is eating us up. just show me the ones you have turned away.
examination and interview materials are confidential. we have never violated an applicant's trust, and we never will.
you want to see a violation? this is a violation...
her name is kimberly jane emberg, she was just id'd. i met her on a slab in west virginia. and sometime tomorrow, or tomorrow night, he is going to do the same thing to catherine martin.
that is a childish, bullying stunt, mr. crawford. i was a battlefield surgeon, so you can put away your picture.
look... search your own records, if you prefer. you can do it a lot faster than us, anyway. if we find buffalo bill through your information, I will suppress it. nobody has to know this hospital cooperated.
i doubt very much that the fbi or any other government agency can keep a secret, mr. crawford. truth will out... and then what? will you give johns hopkins a new identity? put a big pair of sunglasses on this building, and a funny nose?
oh, that is clever, dr. danielson. very humorous. you like the truth? try this.  he kidnaps young women and kills them and rips their skin off. we do not want him to do that anymore. if you do not help me, just as fast as you can, then the justice department is going to ask publicly for a court order, we will ask twice a day, just in time for the morning and evening news. and each one of our press conferences will focus on dr. danielson, over at johns hopkins, and how we are still hoping for his cooperation. and every time there is any news on the case - when catherine martin floats, when the next one floats, and the next one - why, we will just issue another press release about good old dr. danielson, over at johns hopkins - complete with all his humorous fucking remarks.
it may be that - i could confer with my colleagues on this. and get back to you.
would you, doctor? that would be so kind.
chilton has killed her, has not he? that slimy little bastard! we were so close with lecter - and now her last chance is gone.
let's get some coffee and talk.
are you in trouble over this, mr. crawford? can senator martin do something to you?
I am 53, starling. if i found jimmy hoffa on national tv, I would still have to retire in two years. it is not a consideration. but you are...  you have done enough. if i keep you out of school any longer, you will be recycled. cost you six months, at least. i can guarantee you readmission here, but that is about it.  now's your chance, starling. go back to class. leave bill to me.
if you did not want me chasing him, you should not have taken me to that funeral home.
lecter is still the key, i know he is. whatever he told me about bill is just as good now as it was before.
or just as worthless. but i want you in memphis, close to him. maybe when he gets tired of toying with senator martin, he will talk to you again. there is a plane waiting for you now at the airstrip.
i lied to lecter. I will need some kind of peace offering... can i get the drawings from his cell?
good idea. meantime, try to get a feel for catherine martin. her apartment, her friends... how he might have stalked her. I am going to the other two clinics, minnesota and ohio.  now's the hardest part, starling. use your anger, do not let it keep you from thinking. just keep your eyes on catherine. we have got less than 30 hours.
mr. crawford... can those cops down there handle dr. lecter?
they will use their best men. but they better be paying attention...
i will not waste your time and catherine's time bargaining for petty privileges. clarice starling and that awful jack crawford have wasted far too much already. i only pray they have not doomed the poor girl... let me help you now, and I will trust you when it is all over.
you have my word. paul?
what...?
did you breast-feed her?
yes... i did.
toughened your nipples, did not it...?  six foot one, strongly built, about 190 pounds. hair brown, eyes pale blue. he would be about 35 now. he said he lived in philadelphia, but may have lied. that is really all i can remember, senator - but if i think of any more, I will let you know.
let's go with it.
senator martin...! you can not trust jack crawford or clarice starling. it is such a game with these people. they are determined to get the arrest for themselves. the "collar," i think they say.
thank you, doctor. I will keep it in mind.
oh, and senator...? love you suit.
you are out of line, starling, and you are off this case. back to quantico.
sir, mr. crawford instructed me -
your instructions are what I am giving you now. jack crawford answers to the director, and the director answers to me. my god, crawford's losing it...! he should not even be on this, with his wife sick as she is... how the hell did you get in here, anyway? he gave you - what? some kind of special id? let's have it.
i need the id to fly with my gun. the gun belongs in quantico.
gun. jesus. turn in the id as soon as you get back. the gun, too. be on the next plane, starling, there is one in 90 minutes.
mr. krendler... dr. lecter trusts me. or at least, he used to. if i could just -
lecter has already named buffalo bill.
he gave us a perfectly good description, and we are on it now, so we will not be needing your little novelty act any longer - or his, either. he is under close guard at the courthouse, pending a prison transfer. the next plane, officer.
sir, does not this "william rubin" strike you as - i do not know - kind of vague?
do you need a police escort, starling? or do you think you can find the airport by yourself?
yes sir. i can find it by myself.
i thought you might want your drawings back... just until you get your view.
how very thoughtful... or did crawford send you here for one last wheedle - before you are both booted off the case?
nobody sent me. i came on my own.
dr. lecter, you find out everything. you could not have talked with this "william rubin", even once, and come out knowing so little about him... you made him up, did not you?
clarice... you are hardly in a position to accuse me of lying.
i think you were telling me the truth in baltimore - or starting to. tell me the rest now.
I have studied the case file, have you...? everything you need to find him is right in these pages. whatever his name is.
then tell me how.
first principles, clarice. simplicity. read marcus aurelius. of each particular thing, ask: what is it, in itself, what is its nature...? what does he do, this man you seek?
he kills w-
no! that is incidental.
what is the first and principal thing he does, what need does he serve by killing?
anger, social resentment, sexual frus-
no, he covets. that is his nature. and how do we begin to covet, clarice? do we seek out things to covet? make an effort to answer.
no. we just -
no. precisely. we begin by coveting what we see every day. do not you feel eyes moving over your body, clarice? i hardly see how you couldn't. and do not your eyes move over the things you want?
all right, then tell me how -
no. it is your turn to tell me, clarice. you do not have any more vacations to sell, on anthrax island. why did you run away from that ranch?
dr. lecter, when there is time I will -
we do not reckon time the same way, clarice. this is all the time you will ever have.
later, listen, I will -
I will listen now. after your father's murder, you were orphaned. you were ten years old. you went to live with cousins, on a sheep and horse ranch in montana. and - ?
and - one morning i just - ran away...
not "just," clarice. what set you off? you started what time?
early. still dark.
then something woke you. what? did you dream...? what was it?
i heard a strange sound...
what was it?
what did you do?
got dressed without turning on the light. i went downstairs... outside...
they were slaughtering the spring lambs?
yes...! they were screaming.
so you ran away...
no. first i tried to free them... i opened the gate of their pen - but they would not run. they just stood there, confused. they would not run...
but you could. you did.
i took one lamb. and i ran away, as fast as i could...
where were you going?
i do not know. i had no food or water. it was very cold. i thought - if i can even save just one... but he got so heavy. so heavy...
i did not get more than a few miles before the sheriff's car found me. the rancher was so angry he sent me to live at the lutheran orphanage in bozeman. i never saw the ranch again...
but what became of your lamb?  clarice...?
you still wake up sometimes, do not you? wake up in the dark, with the lambs screaming?
yes...
do you think if you saved catherine, you could make them stop...? do you think, if catherine lives, you will not wake up in the dark, ever again, to the screaming of the lambs? do you...?
yes! i do not know...! i do not know.
thank you, clarice.
tell me his name, dr. lecter.
dr. chilton... i believe you know each other?
brave clarice. will you let me know if ever the lambs stop screaming?
yes. I will tell you.
promise...?  then why not take your case file? i will not be needing it anymore.
no. he will not come after me.
why not?
it would be rude. and he would not get to ask any more questions...
clarice - you did the best anybody could have for catherine martin. you stuck your neck out for her and you got your butt kicked for her and you tried. it is not your fault it ended this way.
the worst part - the thing that is making me crazy - is that bill is right in front of me. only i can not see him...  lecter said, everything i need to catch him is right here, in these pages...
lecter said a lot of things.
he is here, ardelia.
"desperately random." what does he mean?
not random at all, maybe. like there is some pattern here...?
but there is no pattern. there is no connection at all among these places, or the computers would have nailed it! they are even found in random order.
well, except for the one girl.
what girl?
the one that was weighted down. where is she...? fred something.
fredrica bimmel, from belvedere, ohio. the first girl taken, but the third body found... why?
'cause she did not drift. he weighted her down.
but why? he did not weight the others.
"- every day."
hot damn, clarice.
he knew her...!
maybe he lives in this, this belvedere, ohio, too! maybe he saw her every day, and killed her sort of spontaneously. maybe he just meant to... give her a 7-up and talk about the choir. but then -
starling -
but then he had to cover up, make her seem just like all the rest of them. that is what lecter was hinting!
the market in lecter hints is way down, today, okay? I have got two good men dead in memphis, and three civilians. I have got -
all his victims are women... his obsession is women, he lives to hunt women. but not one women is hunting him - except me. i can walk in a woman's room and know three times as much about her as a man would.  i have to go to belvedere.
you heard them. i do not have that authority anymore.
you do until six p.m.
ohio is cold ground. picked over, ten months ago. our people worked it, so did the locals.
but not from this angle. not thinking he knew her. you have got to send me!
I am bureau for 28 years, starling. i will not disobey orders, not even now.
but i just became a private citizen. i can go anywhere i want to.
with id and a gun...? impersonating a federal agent is a felony.
he is going to kill her, mr. crawford. this morning, or maybe at noon, but today, and belvedere's our last chance. I am flying there, right now, unless you stop me. you want my id? here - take it...
he is making himself a "woman suit," mr. crawford - out of real women! and he can sew, this guy, he is really skilled. a dressmaker, or a tailor -
starling -
that is why they are all so big - because he needs a lot of skin! he keeps them alive to starve them awhile - to loosen their skin, so that -
starling, we know who he is! and where he is. we are on our way now.
where?
sir, that is great news. but how -
johns hopkins finally came up with a name for us. we fed him into known offenders, and he came up cherries.  subject's name is "jamie gumb," aka "john grant." lecter's description was accurate, he just lied about the name.
this gumb's a real beauty. slaughtered both his grandparents when he was twelve, and did nine years in juvenile psychiatric. where, starling, he took vocational rehab, and learned a useful trade...
sewing...
take a bow. customs had some paper on his alias. they stopped a carton two years ago at lax - live caterpillars from surinam. the addressee was "john grant." calumet power & light's given us two possible residences under that alias. we are hitting one, chicago swat's taking the other.
chicago's only about 400 miles from here. i could be there in -
no, starling, there is not time. and you have still got crucial work to do in ohio. we want him for murder, not kidnapping. I am counting on you to link him to the bimmel girl, before he is indicted.
yes sir... I will do my best.
starling - you have earned back your place in the academy. we never would have found him without you, and nobody's ever going to forget that. least of all me.
yes sir. thank you, sir...
they said she was just rags, like somebody -
stacy, did fredrica ever mention a man named jamie gumb? or john grant?  do you think she could have had a friend you did not know about?
no way. she had a guy, i'da known, believe me. sewing was her life, she was really great at it. poor freddie.
did you ever work with her?
oh sure, me'n pam malavesi used to help her do alterations for old mrs. lippman. lots of people worked for her, she had the business from all these retail stores? but she was like, totally old, it was more'n she could handle.
where does mrs. lippman live? I would like to talk to her.
she died. she went to florida to retire, like two years ago? she dies own there.
is that a pretty good job, fbi agent?
i think so.
you get to travel around and stuff? i mean, better places then this?
sometimes you do.
freddie was so happy for me when i got this job. this - toaster giveaways, and barry manilow on the speakers all day - she thought this was really hot shit. what did she know, big dummy...
excuse me, but i really do need to talk to you. this was mrs. lippman's house. did you know her?
just briefly. what is the problem, officer?
I am investigating the death of fredrica bimmel. who are you, please?
jack gordon.
mr. gordon, did you know fredrica when she worked for mrs. lippman?
no. wait... was she a great, fat person? i may have seen her, I am not sure...
mrs. lippman had a son, maybe he could help you. i have his card somewhere. do you mind stepping inside, while i looks for it?
thanks.
are they close to catching somebody, do you think?
i think we may be, yes.
mr. gordon, did you take over this place after mrs. lippman died?
yes. i bought the house from her, two years ago.
did she leave any records here? tax or business records? maybe a list of employees?
fbi, catherine, you are safe.
safe, shit, he is got a gun! getmeout. get me out!
you are all right! where is he?
get me out!
I will get you out! just be quiet so i can hear. shut that dog up.  is there a ladder? is there a rope?
i do not know! get me out!!
catherine. listen to me. i have to find a rope. i have to leave this room, just for a minute, but -
nooooo! you fucking bitch do not you leave me down here, do not you - you
shut up!  the other officers will be here any minute! you are perfectly safe now!
agent starling! telephone!
agent mapp! thank you!
starling.
well, clarice, have the lambs stopped screaming...?
your lambs are still for now, clarice, but not forever... you will have to earn it again and again, this blessed silence. because it is the plight that drives you, and the plight will never end.
dr. lecter -
i have no plans to call on you, clarice, the world being more interesting with you in it. be sure you extend me the same courtesy.
you know i can not make that promise.
goodbye, clarice...  you looked - so very lovely today, in your blue suit.
