jabez -- help!
coming.
down, shep! down!
he only wants you to throw the stick for him, jabez. i guess he is feeling the spring a-coming, too.
all right -- only he need not dirty my pants!
you throw mighty far, jabez -- almost into the pigsty.
mary -- jabez --
coming, ma.
what is that smile on your face?  is there anything wrong with me?
now, jabez! I have got on my sunday bonnet and I am going to church with my husband. almost the first time since the beginning of winter -- and if that is not an occasion, i do not know what is.
you are right, mary.
well, i guess we will not be going to church today.
i guess we won't.
i think his leg is broken.
oh, jabez.
yep.
i remember dad used to say sometimes, when they were handing out hard luck, the farmers got there first.
jabez, do not you remember your own wedding? we said it is for better or worse. we said it is for richer or poorer.
that is what we said.
"there was a man in the land of uz whose name was job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared god and eschewed evil."
consarn the consarn --
jabez! what kind of talk is that for the sabbath? and me a-reading the holy word!
sorry, ma -- but this consar-- this little pig --  he will not let me fix him --
he is stubborn as a stone.
hold the splint tighter -- it is almost done.  go on reading, ma. this man, job, he had troubles, did not he?
you know that, son.
hard luck -- like me.
now, jabez stone -- as for what you are calling hard luck -- well, we made new england out of it. that and codfish.
that is right, ma -- we am not licked yet. a stone's never licked till he is dead -- that is what dad used to say, did not he, ma?
there! guess that ought to hold good. put him down here, by the fire, mary.  but we do not want to get him too close -- we will have roast pork for supper.
not on the sabbath you won't, jabez!
that is -- if you do not mind changing the lesson, ma.
land sakes, i do not mind. i never did hold much with job, even if he is scripture. he took on too much to suit me. i do not want to malign the man, but he always sounded to me as if he came from massachusetts. yes, mary, you go ahead and read.
well, I will be -- there is a rig, turning in, by the gate.
who is it?
it is tom sharp and two other fellers -- oh, glory -- where is my pants?
loan shark -- hey?
too bad it did not happen to miser stevens.
are you one of old stevens' customers too?
sure am.
yes, it is the debt and the lien and the mortgage that eats up the farmer!
sure does. but I will have to sleep on it a couple of nights.
that is fair enough, jabez. man's got a right to mull things over. we will drive round again, week or so.
i am just thinkin' -- now they might not like the idea down in washington.
why not! there is a bill up in congress to give us a uniform law of bankruptcy. daniel webster is fighting for it right now--
black dan'l?
" ... and if the final vote shall leave thousands of our fellow citizens and their families in hopeless distress, can we -- members of the government -- go to our beds with a clear conscience, can we, without self- reproach, supplicate the almighty mercy to forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors?
that is wonderful language. it would move a stone.
if it would only move old miser stevens -- we have still got to pay him.
yep -- you can not get around that mortgage. -- I am sorry, jabez.
it is all right, sheriff.
wish i could really do something for you. but you know stevens. he will throw you off your farm tomorrow if you do not pay him tonight.
let him try it.
the law is the law. good-bye, mary.
well -- what are we going to do?
we can still use my butter money.
your butter money?
do you think I am grudging it?
mary -- it is gone.
not all of it?
yes -- i had to pay the vet in full. he just would not have treated the horse this time. after all, we can not very well do without a horse.
it is all right, jabez. we will find something to pay stevens.
if the pig had not broke his leg, we could have taken him.
jabez! could not you take a sack of seed instead?
to save us work on the spring plowing?
you always said, the field uphill needs a rest, but if you think --
mary, I am a farmer -- always will be. to me seed is not a thing to pay debts with, it is alive, more alive than anything -- but i guess you are right. we just got to do it. oh -- how is it all going to end?
jabez -- you ought to talk to tom about joining the grange.
i will, mary -- always thought a man could be stronger alone -- seems I have been wrong about that.
how did you know to have the calf ready, ma?
i just figgered -- knew you did not have enough bills.
yes -- and you figgered right, consarn it!
that is a word you are too free with lately, jabez, consarn this and consarn that ...
helps sometimes to say it.
all right, son -- if it helps.
jabez!
seed alone will not do, mary. we have to throw the calf in.
oh jabez! and we were counting on ...  it is a lovely calf.
you are right, mary it is a fine calf. that is why stevens'll take it for the rest of the payment.
what is ailing that dog?
i dunno.
well ... make him keep quiet.
and why should i? let him howl if it makes him feel good.  consarn it. he is better off than i am! i wish i could tell him...  ... up there, just what i think.
hush up such talk, jabez!
i can not help it. i mean it, i tell you. I have had more than my share. nothing ever goes right for me -- nothing!
mary--
jabez ...
mary -- how do you feel?
let her be, son. she will do all right. you better get yourself straightened out.
yes, jabez -- do not worry.
I will get the doctor.
no, jabez -- all i need is some rest -- you go and pay our debt. everything'll be all right then ... everything.
do you deny that you called me? I have known people in other states who went back on their word. but i did not expect it in new hampshire.
you can not say that to me! I am new hampshire. if i say i called you, i did.  i guess i did.
you have had a lot of bad luck these days. and yet -- it is all so unnecessary. when i think of your opportunities --
opportunities?
of course. why man, you have one of the richest farms in the county.  you just go about it the wrong way -- so many men do. hard work -- well, that is all right for people who do not know how to do anything else. it is all right for people who are not lucky -- but once you are lucky -- you do not work for other people. you make them work for you.
well, now, mister, that sounds all right. but--
a clever man like yourself -- he can find money anywhere. money to pay his bills -- money for his wife and his children -- money to be a rich man. all he needs is a friend to point it out to him.  like that!
what do you want?
howdy, mr. stone. we have come round to ask you if you made up your mind to join the grange?
what grange?
that farmers' association -- we were talking about the other day.
well -- we do not mean to force you, jabez stone -- but -- it is only for your own good.
I will look out for myself! ... now go away -- leave me alone.
where did it come from?
oh, you know the old story -- the hessian wagon train that was ambushed on the way to saratoga. some of the gold has been buried under your barn!
yes, why should not it?
yes, of course, people forgot -- or the men who knew about it died, you know how these things happen.
it is mine?
that is right, mr. stone -- there is --  -- just one little formality. I would like your signature here -- see. and when it is done -- it is done for seven years.  it is our usual form. of course -- we may be able to take up the question of a renewal in due time.
what does it mean here -- about my soul?
well, why should that worry you. a soul -- a soul is nothing. can you see it, smell it, touch it? -- no! -- think of it -- this soul -- your soul -- a nothing, against seven whole years of good luck! you will have money and all that money can buy. upon my word, neighbor stone, if it were not for my firm's reputation for generous dealing--
no, no! give it to me!
a pin, neighbor stone! I am afraid, you will have to prick your finger -- but what is a little pain to a lucky man?
excellent. a firm, fair signature. one that will last till doomsday.  my dear neighbor stone, i congratulate you! you are going to be the richest man in new hampshire!
well, I will be --
yes, indeed. but not now. not for seven years. oh, i almost forgot -- what is the date?
the seventh day of april --
1840. well, that will take us to the seventh day of april in 1847.
mary -- what would you do with a pot o' gold?
jabez!
mary -- what would you do?
well -- i -- i do not know -- i would pay our debts and well -- maybe get a new bonnet, but -- really -- i think i would live the same.
mary -- look! hessian gold. i found it in the barn.
you found it in the barn, hey?
yes -- i was getting the seed -- i stumbled -- i saw one of the boards warped up a bit -- and -- there it was.
most outlandish thing i ever heard tell.  do not seem right, somehow!
but it is true. take 'em up in your hands, mary -- feel 'em -- they are real all right.  are not you glad?
I will try hard -- i just can not take it all in.
h'm. hessian gold. well -- hope it will do us more good than it did the hessians.
well -- that is comforting!  supper.
say, mary, how is your shoulder?
it feels fine now, jabez.
will you come into town with me tomorrow?
I would love to.
hello, sheriff.
hello, jabez -- i was just talking to stevens about a little extension on your payment.
and you did not get it, hey? come on, we will have another talk with him.
stevens!
well, stone -- have you got the money?
i barely managed to scrape up a bit for you. i thought if i made a kind of part payment --
no, stone!
-- in gold.
I would like to know where you would get it....
you know -- some folks are just lucky. others pick gold right out of the air.  like that!
real! sheriff, you are a witness that this money is paid me voluntarily, and while it does not satisfy the mortgage, it has become my property.
does not satisfy, eh? well -- that is too bad....
i wanted to give it all to the church.
my money? why, mister stevens? what a quaint idea. come over to the door. i want to speak to you privately. stop throwing away that money. we must not let people see any softness in you, mister stevens.... people take advantage of softness, you know. come out of there -- I will give you an extension if you will forget this stupid repentance idea.
that is not it. it is ... the loneliness, mr. scratch ... the loneliness!
the loneliness? lonely with all your gold, mister stevens? that hardly makes sense.
i want someone to talk to ...
you can talk to me ...
no, no ...  i want to talk to men ... to people in cross corners ...to my neighbors ...
why do not you?
i can not be honest with them.
oh, that is what you want -- well, you can be perfectly honest with jabez stone -- now.
what do you think of that, jabez?
looks right elegant, mary.
it is only a short drive, mr. webster.
oh -- it is you again. what do you want?
with the presidential election coming up, i thought i could be of some help, sir.
I would rather see you on the side of the opposition.
I will be there, too!
say, that is pretty good, young man.
pretty good -- that is perfect!
ten throws -- mr. webster?
ten throws it is.
you win. will you ride to the village with me, mr. stone?
thank you, mr. webster.
i do not seem to be so very popular after all -- in cross corners.
seems like it is my fault, mr. webster.
not at all, lad -- not at all.  for a good game of horseshoes i would always sacrifice fame and acclaim.
here's a man who knows what is good for dan'l webster! medford rum! ah, a breath of the promised land!  to the champion of the iron horseshoe, jabez stone!
thanks, mr. webster!  to the champion of the whole united states -- dan'l webster!
what are you looking for, colonel?  what is your name?
martin van buren aldrich and my pa's the only democrat in cross corners. he said you had horns and a tall, mr. webster, but i am not seen 'em yet.
well, martin, i only wear them in washington -- that is the trouble. but if you ever come down there, I will show them to you.
gee, would you, mr. webster? honest?
of course. and you tell your father for me -- we may be on opposite sides of the fence, but I am always glad to hear of a man who holds to his own opinions. as long as people do that -- the country's all right. do you understand, martin?
yes, sir -- i guess i do -- gee --
eloquent speech, neighbor stone -- could not have done better myself --  -- under the circumstances.  thank you.
mr. webster -- I would like you to meet my wife, mary.
well -- I will be -- if it is not little mary sampson from franklin.
it is.
you have got a smart man, mrs. stone. hang onto him.
-- I am going to try, mr. webster.
coming along, jabez?
shall we?
we must go on home, jabez.
yes, mary.  it is been a long day.
remember, mary, how he said it: "couldn't have done better myself, jabez stone," and it was my first speech. i do not know what came into me, mary. i just stood up and the words came flowing like water out of my mouth.
oh, jabez -- it was a wonderful day --
but I am glad to be home again --
tired?
worried!
there is nothing to worry about now.
you will never change -- will you?
mary -- you just wait and see -- it is all -- just the beginning -- just the beginning -- of everything. I will be the biggest man in new hampshire and you will be the wife of the biggest man.
there is hope and promise in it, jabez -- planting and promise of good harvest to come.
yes -- you are right, mary. i can almost hear the little blades of grass a-starting up -- all the seeds a-stirring underneath the ground --
do not take cold, jabez.  come -- it is warm in here.
mary --
jabez --
why -- good morning, squire.
morning, jabez.
ahem -- we want to have a little confidential talk with you, neighbor stone. do not like to take a man away from his planting -- but sometimes --
come right into the parlor, will not you, folks.
mighty good of you to come out, squire -- sparing all this time to --  sheriff, too -- and schoolmaster -- mighty nice.
ahem -- neighbor stone, we want--
oh!
headache -- squire?
worst i had in years -- ahem -- starting a spring cold, i guess -- er -- do not happen to have a bit of camomile tea in the house, do you, stone?
camomile tea!
mary, get three cups of camomile tea for the squire and the rest. they all feel colds coming on.
I will get it, jabez.
thanks, mary.
and so, jabez stone, in the name of the whig party of cross corners, we offer you the nomination of that party for selectman.
selectman? selectman of the village? me?
but -- i was just lucky.
well? do not a politician have to be?
it seems such an obvious candidature to us all.
very well, folks. i accept.
mary! I am -- selectman of cross corners!
oh -- jabez.
you know, ma, why the squire came to see jabez?
yes, mrs. slossum told me -- lucy can not even keep a secret -- selectman -- my son -- well, who would have thought of that?
you could have knocked me down with a feather -- selectman -- me.
I will never get my washing done.
that is one thing i want to talk to you about, mary.
yes, mr. selectman!
I am serious.
it is very becoming to you, mr. selectman.
but it is not very becoming to you to have your hands in the suds -- when the squire and his wife --
but jabez -- the washing has to be done --
well -- that is the last time -- we will have servants to do it.
no, no. i do not want to be idle.
and i do not want to have a washwoman for a wife.
well, son, I am glad to see a stone come up in the world again.
now look here, ma. I am not a boy anymore. i want that understood. i do not aim to stay a one-horse farmer the rest of my life. mary's got to be the kind of wife a -- a big man needs --
jabez -- once you said we would never change --
i was not used to being big -- was not used to thinking in big ways. now, I have made up my mind.
howdy, jabez.
howdy, hank.
kin you spare a moment for me jabez?
why, of course, hank -- I have always got time for a neighbor. what is on your mind?
well -- here's how it is ...tom sharp, eli higgins and a couple of others been talking to me about -- that new sort of organization -- grange they call it. what you think about it?
i do not know -- do not seem much of an idea to me.
yes, but what does a farmer do if he do not want to get roped in some more by them loan sharks?
oh -- you do not have to go to miser stevens while I am around.
do not i? ... say, that is mighty white of you, jabez.
not at all, hank ... not at all. glad to help you.
thanks, jabez -- i really would not need very much ... if you could let me have some seed to start off with enough for spring planting ...
say ... about the interest ...
now do not you worry about that. you just leave it all to me. we will not talk business now ... just bear this in mind ... I am not the man to get rich on other people's hard luck.... no, sir... not me! ...
it will not be the first baby ever born in this house.  there! made me drop a stitch!  sit down, you make me nervous!  lan's, that is the way a man always is. thinks his son's the most important thing in the world.
my son! do you really think, ma....
oh, go along with you! as if it mattered to a grandma! but p'raps you got an even chance.
queer sort of weather we are having -- queer like everything else.
well, thank the lord you can always depend on new england for weather. we have got enough for the whole united states.
i feel -- fidgety, ma -- not right at all.
lan's, I would think you was having the baby, to hear you.
me -- a son.
money -- money's a funny thing, am not it, ma?
i figure that depends a mite on how you get it and how you spend it, son.
do you really think that?
why, that is just sense, son. now a man like daniel webster -- guess they pay him high for what he does. but he is worth it -- and he helps others. makes all the difference.
i know, ma, but -- suppose a man got his money in bad ways --
would not profit him none.
you see, son? I am old and I have lived. when a man gets his money in bad ways -- when he sees the better course and takes the worse -- then the devil is in his heart -- and that fixes him.
ma -- and yet, a man could change that, could not he?
a man can always change things, son. that is what makes him different from barnyard critters.
good evening, neighbor stone.
look here now--
oh come, neighbor stone. i would not cut that tree if i were you. it means a breach of contract.
i do not care.
but you should, now that you are becoming a father.
leave your tongue off of that!
oh, certainly. i shall not even come to the christening -- it would be tactless and in wretched bad taste.  but i may send a friend of mine -- just for old sake's sake. yes, i might do that.
oh, here you are, jabez. lan's, i was worried about you.... hail in august! the crops will be ruined!
it do not matter!
what is that you say, son?
i say -- it do not matter.
now that is the way to talk, son! i know you worked hard for that crop. but we will make out.
make out? we will do better than that!  i never thought I would be glad for bad luck, but i am. i never thought I would be glad of a hail storm at harvest time, but i am! oh, bless ye the works of the lord in the hail and the storm and the rain!
ruined -- all the fields -- ruined.
mary -- but look -- it did not touch an ear of my corn -- we will have a rich harvest.
ma -- is she? --
you will be a father any minute now.
golly, ma --  consarn that music! should not a-had the harvest festival tonight.
fiddlesticks! she do not hear it. got better music to listen to than that.  there -- that is what i mean.
mary --
hello, jabez --  here's your son.
well -- i -- i-
do not be cross with him, ma. this do not happen every day.
you go down and see what is keeping dorothy.
sure, ma.
you are not -- dorothy.
no. she is gone.
she could not be gone!
but she is -- I have taken her place. do not you remember -- you wrote me a letter. mrs. stone was too ill.
never mind. what is your name?
belle.
belle --
belle dee. I am from over the mountain.
from over the mountain --
I will take it.
no -- that is for me to do.
jabez -- ?
I have brought you something to keep you warm, mrs. stone --
you are not resting well, are you? i know -- it is that music.  you need your sleep. is there anything else you want?
no, thank you -- what is your name?
belle --
thank you, belle --
what a nice -- and kind girl --  who is she --?
the new girl -- jabez says; she is from over the mountain.
what mountain?
let's dance together -- belle.
no, jabez -- your place is with your wife --
potato bug sits on the leaf in the sun, sleep, sleep, my baby -- raccoon sits in the spruce all night, sleep, baby, sleep --
what in sugar hill's the matter with him?
nothing, jabez -- just natural for a baby to cry, sometimes.  shh, little daniel -- sleep -- sleep --
golly, belle, that was a good idea -- we should do that every morning.
we will --
mary! ready? first bell's a-ringing!
yes, ma -- I am ready --
she will do nothing of the kind! she is going to church with me, right away!
jabez -- for the good of your soul ... please come with us.
i want you to fix these fish!
and i say she won't! I will not have the scorn of god on this place -- with the smell of fish in it, polluting up the sabbath!  and as for you -- let me tell you, young woman...!
we will cook 'em ourselves. you will help me, belle.
of course i will.
mornin', jabez ...
hello, stevens ... you are early today.
yes, i wanted to get here before the others.... i want to talk to you alone.
some other time, stevens.
come in, sheriff.
jabez -- seems  like I have been hearing talk around. reverend harper thinks more cross corners folk oughter be in church, sabbath morning.
belle, give the sheriff a cup of rum.
granny, when do we move to the new house?
move? -- we are not going to move -- the old one is good enough for us.
but i like the new one better.
that is just too bad --
lan's to goodness, what happened to that hen? did you use that beanshooter again?
i did not, grandma.
yes, you did, daniel! i saw it from the window. and then to lie about it! give me that beanshooter, daniel!
it is mine, ma! pa made it for me -- and I am not going to give it to anyone!
daniel give me that beanshooter!
no! no! i won't.
daniel! ...  I have stood just about as much as i can bear!
what happened.... where are you taking him?
i am going to lock him up.
you are not supposed to punish my son, mary.
that is my business. -- now, it is all right, daniel.  what did he do?
he lied to me again.
jabez -- how can you let her talk like that when the boy is present? he will not respect me any more.
is not that your own fault?
my fault? ... oh, jabez -- all i want is to be proud of him. he can be such a fine boy, if we show him how to be.
he is my son and i like him the way he is. why do you always have to pick on him? if it is not the boy it is me. you do not like the way i live -- you do not like my friends, or my new house -- or anything.
but jabez, i never said that!
it shows on your face.
well -- i am worried about the way you have changed. that was one thing you said you would never do -- remember?
oh, for heaven's sake, leave me alone!
grandma, look at me!
i see you! riding pretty high, am not you? look out you do not fall off.
not me!
fox hunting -- a stone going fox hunting on a week day -- and the earth crying out for the touch of him!
now, ma -- you just try to set an example for me, and keep hold of yourself.
me? why, look here, mary stone -- I am worried about you, that is all.
worried about me! well, you just stop it!
what is that?
i said you should stop worrying because I have made up my mind!
hey there, dan'l! black dan'l!
hullooo!
someone to see you, dan'l!
if it is the british minister, take him around to the pantry and give him some madeira --
just someone from new hampshire!
why, that is different!  well, boys, i guess we will knock off. I have got to see a friend.
well mary, it is too bad i did not know -- i would have given you a real dinner, but with my wife being in washington -- have another piece of pie --
no, really, thank you. -- is mrs. webster coming back soon?
well -- she hardly ever comes here -- she is not the type of woman who cares to live in the country. yes -- I am all on my own -- sometimes it makes you feel a little lonely --  do you mind if i indulge?
of course not --
no, you would not -- you are not the sort of woman that is afraid of smoke -- or fire -- but now let's talk about your affairs.
goodness, mr. webster, I have done nothing but talk about that all through dinner.
yes, you have chatted a lot, woman-like nibbling around the edge -- but, mary, forgive an old lawyer's legal mind, i do not think you ever once came to the point. and there is a point, is not there?
why -- yes -- it is hard to put it into words, mr. webster. there is this matter of little daniel's schooling and the new house -- and well -- there is something else that is wrong -- it gets worse, year after year -- it is like a shadow growing -- i can not really talk about it, even to ma -- she puts it all on jabez and i will not stand for that.
I have heard some odd things about jabez lately -- he seems to make the wrong kind of name for himself.
mr. webster, you must not believe all that people say.
you do not have to defend him to me, mary -- I have been called names myself.
you see, i do not care if we are rich or poor -- i do not care if we are big or small, all i care about is jabez. he was the first man i loved. he never used to care about money -- we were poor as job's turkey, but none of us minded. now I have seen him drive the poor from the door, and we used to be poor ourselves. I have seen him get hard and mean, and he is not hard or mean. I have heard him mock at the church bells -- the bells that rang for our wedding. that is not like him, mr. webster -- it must be my fault somehow -- my fault.
mary -- you have talked to me as you might have talked to your father and i believe he wants me to help you a little. you see, sometimes we think we are licked in this life -- but we were not put here to be licked. do not you believe it. sometimes the shadows seem to get hold of us -- the shadows and the evil -- but it is still up to us to fight. now i was thinking before you came, of coming over to cross corners end of the month, to get acquainted with my godson -- and other things.
oh, could you, mr. webster ?
and now come on, mary. i want to show you the all-fired biggest parsnips in the whole united states, raised right here in marshfield -- of course!
the people, jabez -- the people.
the -- folks or people, what is the difference among friends?
howdy, squire! howdy! oh -- how do you do, squire.
how do you do, belle? how are you, jabez?  well -- mighty elegant house you got here.
you really think so?
hey, you! watch out there -- you are scuffing my brussels carpet -- consarn them.
jabez! careful --
oh --  did not mean to talk like that in front of a lady.  get some wine for the squire, belle.
well, jabez -- I am a little pressed for time. you wanted to discuss something -- some business --
oh yes -- yes. will not take a minute. can you keep a secret?
why of course --
dan'l webster is coming to my party.
dan'l webster?
yes -- and that is the reason i wanted to talk with you. you got my invitation?
yes.
now look -- here's a list of the people i invited -- they are all the right kind of people -- or did i miss anybody?
the only one you missed -- is the president.
you think that is a joke? i had him on there too, but i was afraid dan'l webster might feel insulted.
you keep that -- that is for you. i want you to talk up the party to make sure that the best folks really come.
you want me to go around --
yes  siree -- that is the idea. get them all here and then say: "look, folks -- here's daniel webster, my guest of honor." golly, i can see their eyes pop already.
you mean that is all you had me come out here for?
now, squire, you are not going to let me down. we still want to do a lot of business together, do not we?
well -- yes --
that is fine. now you can tell people all about the house, but do not mention webster.
you are not so sure that he will come.
oh yes -- i am -- want to bet?
why not -- ?
how much?
5000 -- that is just what i owe you.
shake!
hello, colonel! want a lift?
well, i would not mind.  but my name's daniel stone.
all right, daniel. jump in.
gee -- that fair --
it has not opened yet?
no -- but i can hardly wait -- mister -- tell me, will there really be --  -- a man that eats fire?
guess there will, if it says so.
and two unpara-- unparalleled cir-cass-ian beauties? what is that?
young man -- you got me there.
'n daniel webster will be there.
a varied list of attractions. and which would you like to see first, dan'l?
i think I would like to begin with the fire-eater --
and what about daniel webster?
well, i thought he would come in the middle.
and serve him right!
daniel! do not ever let me catch you doing that again!
why? it do not hurt.
it does hurt! and do not you do it again.
make them go faster, mr.... ?
no, daniel -- they are not race horses. they are good old friends of mine. i call 'em constitution and bill of rights, the most dependable pair for long journeys. I have got one called missouri compromise, too, and then there is a supreme court -- fine, dignified horse, though you do have to push him now and then.
golly -- I would like to see all your horses!
maybe you can, sometime, daniel. I am a farmer, you know, and like to show my farm -- but the thing I would like to show you most, you will have to see for yourself.
what is that, sir?
well -- it is high and it is wide and it goes a long way and there is a wind blowing through it and a blue roof over it -- it is the hills up here and the rivers running south and the new states growing in the west.
anybody can see that.
you are wrong, mr. stone. there are people who live and die without e'er seeing it. they can not see the country for the money in their pockets -- and some think their state's the country, or the way they live is the country, and they are willing to split the country because of that. well, i hope you will meet all those, when you are grown. you will meet the fire-eaters and the circassian beauties -- that is part of the fair, to be sure. but if we would had to depend on them, in a permanent way, the country would have stopped at the allegheny mountains.
but it did not stop. i know it did not stop. granny told me it didn't.
no, siree, it didn't. and it will not -- no matter what happens -- just as long as the folks at the fair believe in freedom and union. so --  giddyap, constitution -- and let's keep going, mr. stone.
so you have made up your mind to go to the party.
you are not angry with me?
ah, fiddlesticks -- you are old enough to know what you are doing.
be sure to let me know if daniel is over there.
i will not forget.
why do not they come --
i do not know, jabez.
think this room is larger than anything webster's got at marshfield? you have been there. what about it, mary?
it is -- different, jabez -- that is all.
what is the matter with 'em? why do not they come?
daniel, you ought to be in bed.
no, no, i do not want to go to bed. i want to be here for the party.
what are those people doing there? what do they want?
they are just outsiders. they want to see how fine jabez stone lives these days. they are waiting for your guests, too --
good evening -- I am sorry, jabez -- I am a little late.
no, you are not.
where is everybody?
i dunno -- i can not figure it out. I have invited them all. why do not they come?
i see why you are here -- you knew that nobody was coming.
i didn't.
you are lying.
lying to you -- why should i?
you know that you are in my house.
i know -- and you could show me the door. you would, too, if you were not still hoping the guests might arrive.
you think you are so smart, mrs. stone. you wanted to be near jabez. it looked like your big chance tonight, but you are wrong, you can not win him back -- not that way.
that is my problem, belle.
now run along, daniel.
what a fine boy you have, jabez. how old is he now?
almost seven.  no -- no, he is not seven yet i am sure --
well -- it seems to me -- i remember when you paid me--
what is the matter with you?
you are afraid!
afraid ... of what?
-- of what happens after we die!
are you plumb crazy, man! what do you think happens? we are buried -- that is all.
but what becomes of our souls?
why do you fret about something that is not there?
do not say that -- i know it is --
all right -- so it is buried with you!
what if one has not a soul any more? what of that?
huh? -- what is that?  well -- what about it? who cares, anyhow?
i do -- and i think you should too.
stevens -- what is all this leading up to? you know something. come on! out with it -- you know something about me!
who are these people?
they are all friends of mine -- from over the mountain.  welcome! help yourselves to drinks! glad you could come! have a good time.
oh -- mr. webster -- I am so glad you came!
are you, mary?  well, i guess I am glad myself -- seeing as how you feel this way.  party seems to be quite a success.  lots of guests, anyhow.
well -- mr. webster! this is a great day for me. come on in, sir. i want you to take the seat of honor and meet all my guests!
that is just fine, neighbor stone -- but -- i have to be pretty careful of my seats of honor -- where i sit, i mean. you see, the whole country sort of has its eye on me, jabez -- anybody in public life has that difficulty -- even you, jabez. they watch us carefully, our neighbors and our enemies, and they see much more than we think they do -- and understand much more. my friends all like to think that I have got the good of mankind always at heart, and I have got to make sure that those i deal with have the good of mankind always at heart, too. do you know what I am talking about, jabez?
what -- what is on your mind?
you, jabez stone -- you and a lot of poor farmers, hereabouts -- good men of the earth who are in trouble because of you. or -- am i wrong about those contracts, mr. stone?
contracts? -- yes, they have contracts with me -- lots of 'em -- but -- but that is all right. without me and my money, they would not have anything.
they would have a good neighbor, jabez -- and that is worth much more than anything else -- much, much more!
I am sorry you can not see that, i know you could once -- you made a little speech once, that I will always remember and i know the others do too --  they remember and they see how you have changed. that is why they did not want to come tonight to you, jabez -- you are as blind as a burma bat, with your gold pot! mind you, it is not the money, I have been talking about, it is what you make of it.
i -- i do not know what you are talking about! i -- i have not time to listen to all this --
no -- you have not time -- you have not time for your mother, or your wife, or your child.
it is your fault! you brought daniel webster here -- just to try to make a fool of me! you played the sneak behind my back -- made up all sorts of lies against me! you can get yourself out of my home -- go back to the other house -- that old place, where you belong -- i do not want to -- to talk to you again!
why, mr. stone, you look so worried. can i be of any service?
you promised me prosperity, happiness, love, money, friendship --
just a minute, neighbor stone. i promised you money and all that money can buy. i do not recall any other obligations. but let's look at the contract.
.... miser stevens' soul, mr. stone. yes -- i am sorry for the disturbance.
he am not dead -- he is dancing in there.
he was --
are they all as -- small -- as that?
small? oh, i see what you mean. why, they vary.  now a man like daniel webster, if i ever get hold of him, I would have to build a special box for him and even at that, i imagine, the wing spread would be astonishing.  in your case --
my time is not up yet.
trying to break our contract again, mr. stone?
I am through with you.
what a headstrong fellow! well -- i guess you are quite prepared to suffer the consequences.
i have still a year -- a year to make up for everything.
oh no, you violated clause five of our contract and i could collect right now, if i chose.
not now! not now!  -- let me make up -- let me make up.
suddenly you seem quite desperate, mr. stone --  -- you know I am a good-natured man. I am always open to reason. with a little security -- i might--
anything -- anything. -- you can have it all back -- that money -- the new house -- my farm -- the whole caboodle!
I am afraid that is hardly the sort of security i was thinking of --  you see -- there is that promising little fellow, your son ...
no! no! no! not him -- not my son -- I would rather go with you -- right now.
come, come, mr. stone, you are a little upset. it is not fair to bargain with you now. -- I will give you until midnight, mr. stone, but not one minute more. ah, then you will come with me indeed.
my son ... what is the matter?
ma! ...  where is mary ... and little dan'l?
gone with daniel webster -- to marshfield, son.... you told mary to go--
mr. webster ... wait! ...  mary!
jabez!
mary! come back ...
oh, jabez! ...  did you hear, mr. webster? --  now you will help him, will not you?
it is here you said that you closed the deal with him?
yes, mr. webster -- it was here where it all began.
i see. and this is where he would like to collect, too.
yes -- at midnight.
jabez ...
mary -- what love and trust could do for your husband, you have done. and frankly, in a very few moments, this is going to be no place for a lady.
mr. webster -- you will help him?
I will do my best, mary.
you must go now, mary -- you must!
all right, jabez ...
they make plucky women in new england.  h'm ... how long have we to wait?
not long -- now.
then I will just christen the jug, with your permission, stone. somehow or other, waiting's wonderfully shorter with a jug.
there is nothing like it. i saw an inchworm take a drop of it once, and he stood right up on his hind legs and bit a bee. come -- try a nip!
there is no joy in it for me.
oh, come, man, come. just because you have sold your soul to the devil that need not make you a teetotaler.
mr. webster, i presume?
attorney of record for jabez stone. might i ask your name?
scratch will do for the evening. may i -- join you?
why, certainly -- but be careful, mr. scratch -- medford rum has an uncanny habit of kicking back, even with old-timers like yourself.
it even kicked back -- once at you, did not it?
me?
oh ..  not that you ever get drunk! no, indeed! but a kind of overpowering lassitude or, more plainly, a deep and enveloping sleep.
there is not enough medford rum in the whole of new hampshire to make me sleepy.
talk has never proved that question, mr. webster!  cup for cup -- what do you say?
cup for cup!
well now, mr. stone, did you make up your mind?
about what?
are you willing to give me your son in exchange for an extension of our contract?
never!
mama!
daniel! ... you must go to sleep.
i do not want to be up there all alone, mama.... i want to be with you.
all right, darling.
your spirited efforts on behalf of your clients do you credit, mr. webster -- if you have no more arguments to adduce I will take him along now.
not so fast, mr. scratch. produce your evidence -- if you have it.
there, mr. webster.  all open and above-board and in due and legal form.
h'm. this appears -- i say appears -- to be properly drawn. but you shall not have this man! a man is not property! mr. stone is an american citizen, and no american citizen may be forced into the service of a foreign prince.
foreign? and who calls me a foreigner?
well, i never heard the dev-- of your claiming american citizenship.
and who with better right? when the first wrong was done to the first indian, i was there. when the first slaver put out for the congo, i stood on the deck. am i not spoken of, still, in every church in new england? it is true, the north claims me for a southerner, and the south for a northerner, but i am neither. to tell the truth, mr. webster, though i do not like to boast of it, my name is older in the country than yours.
then i stand on the constitution! i demand a trial for my client.
you mean -- a jury trial?
i do! if i can not win this case with a jury, you shall have me, too. if two new hampshire men are not a match for the devil, we would better give this country back to the indians.
very well. -- you shall have your trial, mr. webster. the case is hardly one for an ordinary jury --
let it be the quick or the dead -- so it is an american judge and an american jury!
the quick or the dead! you have said it.  may -- the best man win, mr. webster!
I will drink to that, mr. scratch!
your honor -- gentlemen of the jury -- this case need not detain us long. it concerns one thing alone -- the transference, barter and sale of a certain piece of property, to wit, his soul by jabez stone. that transference, barter or sale is attested by a deed. i offer that deed in evidence and mark it exhibit a.
i object.
jabez stone -- did you or did you not sign this document?
yes, i did -- but you tricked me into signing it! you told me my soul was nothing ... that i could forget all about a soul, in exchange for money. that was a lie, a lie, a lie.
that is highly irrelevant to this case, your honor.
yes -- yes, i am the richest man -- too rich. i can not think of anything but money. that is the trouble with me.
but, mr. stone, i am hardly to blame for the pricking of your wholly unnecessary conscience.  is this your signature?
you know darn well it is.
gentlemen, the prosecution rests.
my congratulations -- as between two gentlemen.
why, you long-barreled, slab-sided, lantern- jawed, note-shaving crook, be off with you ...
jabez -- jabez!
mary!
you were worried, jabez, were not you?
well, i --
i know -- that was mighty queer medford -- knew it the minute i tasted it. but it takes more than that to down daniel webster.
ma -- ma -- it is all right, ma!
of course it is all right, son. you had daniel webster, did not ye?  breakfast's ready!  I have made a special surprise for mr. webster.
ma says breakfast's ready, mr. webster!
breakfast ... ah! ... come along friends, ma stone's a cook this side of heaven.
jabez -- will you join our grange now?
why, thank you, tom. i was going to ask you if you thought i could.
we will be mighty glad to have you with us.
there is nothing like a good old country breakfast. where is ma?
she will be here in a moment. she has a special surprise for you.
