my name is harley -- secretary to the president  I have been told that you speak our language -- that your name is mr. klaatu.
just klaatu.
the president asked me to convey his deepest apologies for what has happened. we all feel--
sit down, mr. harley.
I am sure i do not have to point out that your arrival was something of a surprise.  had you been traveling long?
about five months -- your months.
you must have come a long way.
about 250 million of your miles.
naturally we are very curious to know where it is you come from.
from another planet. let's just say that we are neighbors.
it is rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor.
I am afraid, in the present situation you will have to learn to think that way.
the present situation?
i mean the reasons for my coming here.
we are very curious about that, too. would you care to talk about it?
I would be glad to.  not now, of course -- with you alone.
perhaps you would rather discuss it personally with the president--
this is not a personal matter, mr. harley. it concerns all the people on your planet.
i -- I am not sure i understand--
i want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the earth.
I am afraid that would be a little awkward. it is -- it is completely without precedent. and there are practical considerations -- the time involved -- the enormous distances.
i traveled 250 million miles. what about your united nations?
you know about the united nations?
we have been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years. that is how we learned your languages. lately, we have been getting your television also.
you must have a rather strange impression of us.
the first two years of television we were convinced that all you did was wrestle.
I am sure you recognize from our broad- casts the evil forces that have produced the tension in our world. surely you would agree--
i am not concerned, mr. harley, with the internal affairs of your planet. i consider that to be your business -- not mine.
i was only hoping to make you understand.
my mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. it concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on earth.
perhaps if you could explain a little--
i intend to explain. to all the nations -- simultaneously.  how do we proceed, mr. harley?
we could call a special meeting of the general assembly... but of course the un does not represent all of the nations.
then why not a meeting of all the chiefs of state?
believe me, you do not understand. they would not sit down at the same table.
i will make that recommendation to the president.  i must tell you in all honesty that I am extremely dubious about the results.
apparently I am not as cynical about earth's people as you are.
I have been dealing in earth's politics a good deal longer than you have.  goodnight, sir.
the skeletal structure is completely normal.  same for the major organs - heart, liver, spleen, kidneys.
and the lungs are the same as ours. must mean a similar atmosphere -- similar pressure.  how old do you think he is?
oh, I would say forty-five.
he told me this morning when i examined him. he is seventy-eight.
i do not believe it.
their life expectancy is a hundred and thirty.
how does he explain that?
he says their medicine is that much more advanced.  he was very nice about it. but he made me feel like a third-class witch doctor.
good afternoon.  I am glad to see you up and around.
thank you... have you any news?
not very good news, I am afraid.  the president accepted your suggestion and cabled the invitations for a meeting last night.  let me read you some of the replies.  "the premier wishes to inform the government of the united states that it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the president unless the meeting is held in moscow."  "the suggestion of the president regarding the possibility of a meeting in moscow would be unacceptable to her majesty's government at the present time. representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in washington."  well -- there you have it.
i tried to make you understand. the suspicions -- the jealousies -- the mistrust--  surely you realize that my government has done everything in its power--
it is not your government I am thinking about. it is your world.
now that you understand the situation more clearly, perhaps you would like to discuss the matter with the president
i will not speak to any one nation or group of nations.  i do not intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies and suspicions.
our problems are very complex, mr. klaatu. you must not judge us too harshly.
i can judge only by what i see.
your impatience is quite understandable.
i am impatient with stupidity. my people have learned to live without it.
I am afraid my people haven't.  I am very sorry -- i wish it were otherwise.
before making any decisions, i think i should get out among your people -- become familiar with the basis for these strange, unreasoning attitudes.
under the circumstances I am afraid that will be impossible.
are you an fbi man?
no -- I am afraid not.
bet he is, mom. bet he is out looking for that space man.
i think we have all been hearing too much about "space men."
can i help you look for the space man? can i?  i know what he looks like! he is got a square head -- and, three great big eyes!
that is enough, bobby. i think it is time you went to bed.
we are all set. i picked up some sandwiches and put gas in the car. and the radio's still busted, so me can forget about the space man for today.
there is only one thing -- i have not been able to arrange for anyone to stay with bobby.  i do not suppose we could take him with us?
well, we could--
there is always somebody here, but today of course they have all got plans.
bobby -- who is the greatest man in america today?
gee -- i do not know... the space man, i guess.
i was speaking of earth men. i meant the greatest philosopher -- the greatest thinker.
well -- professor barnhardt, i guess. he is the greatest scientist in the world.
he lives here in washington, does not he?
sure. right near where my mother works.
where is that?
department of commerce. she is a secretary.  they have a man they call the secretary, but he is not at all. my mother's a real secretary.  mr. carpenter -- now can we go see the space ship?
boy, I will bet he is strong. i bet he could knock down a whole building.
i should not be at all surprised.
gee, I would like to get inside and see how it works. what do you think makes it go?
well -- atomic power, i would imagine.
i thought that was only for bombs.
no. it is for a lot of other things, too.
you think it can go faster than an f- 36?
yes -- i think so.
maybe four thousand miles an hour. and outside the earth's atmosphere a good deal faster.
gee! how could they make a landing?
well -- there are several ways to reduce landing speed. you see, the velocity--
you think they will ever find him?
i do not know, bobby. I am inclined to doubt it.
mr. carpenter -- what does velocity mean?
velocity is the time rate of change of position.
bobby -- i have an idea. let's go see professor barnhardt and find out how he talks.
you are just kidding, are not you?
would not you like to meet him?
well, sure i would, but --  aw, I will bet you would be scared.
we can scare him more than he can scare us.
what does that mean?
it is a problem in celestial mechanics.
bet he is the only one in the world knows the answer.
he does not know the answer. and he will never get it that way.
how dare you write on that blackboard!  do you realize the professor has been working on that problem for weeks?
he will catch on to it in no time now.
how did you get in here? and what do you want?
we came to see professor barnhardt.
well, he is not here. and he will not be back till this evening.  i think you would better leave now. unruffled, klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. he tears off the piece of paper and hands it to hilda.
you might keep this.  i think the professor will want to get in touch with me.
did all these people die in wars?
sure. did not you ever hear of arlington cemetery?
no -- I am afraid not.
mr. carpenter" -- you do not seem to know about anything.
I will tell you, bobby -- I have been away for a long time. very far away.
is it different where you have been?  do not they have places like this?
they have cemeteries. but not like this one... you see, they do not have any wars.
go to the movies.
all right.
no foolin'? will you?
certainly.  tell me, bobby -- do you have to have money to go there?
I have got some money. my mother gave me two dollars.
no -- i want to take you to the movies.  do you think they would accept these?
gee -- those look like diamonds!
some places that is what people use for money. they are easy to carry -- and they do not wear out.
bet they are worth about a million dollars.
would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them?
well, sure, but--
let's not say anything to my mother about this, mr. carpenter.
why not, bobby?
she does not like me to steal from people.
it was a wonderful day.
you still have not answered my question.
you know how i feel, tom. i just want to think it over.
the boss is leaving for chicago tomorrow. if i could tell him i was getting married -- with two dependents--
you are a good salesman -- but I have got to think about it.
a good insurance salesman would not give you time to think.
hi mom!
hello, darling.  good evening, mr. carpenter.
mrs. benson -- this is mr. brady.
mr. brady's a cop.
did you have a nice day, dear?
boy, we had a swell time. did not we, mr. carpenter?
we certainly did.
we went to the movies -- and we had ice cream cones -- and we went to see daddy--
i do not know how to thank you.
i enjoyed every minute of it.
aw, gee -- we did not finish our story.
we will finish it tomorrow... goodnight, bobby.
goodnight.
come on, bobby. time to go to bed.
mom -- why does mr. carpenter have to go down to the police station?
i -- i do not know, dear... perhaps there is some mistake.
we sure had fun today. we saw the space ship and we went to see professor barnhardt -- and--
professor barnhardt.
yeah, sure. mom, do i have to go to school tomorrow?
of course, dear.
aw, gee, mom -- i had plans to play with mr. carpenter.
the professor's secretary says she found you in barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard.
i was only trying to be helpful. he was having difficulty with a problem.
oh, i see. he was having trouble and you were helping him out.
that is right.
i suppose you know that barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the army.
in this case the secret would not be worth much. he does not know the answer himself.
but i suppose you know the answer.
it is really quite simple... the three- body problem, you know.
your name's carpenter -- that right?  any identification, mr. carpenter? driver's license -- social security number?
no -- I am afraid not.
well, how do i know who you are?
you don't.
okay -- book him and get him fixed up.  looks like everybody's goin' nuts.
they would have killed this man?
people get hysterical enough, they do anything.  look, mr. carpenter -- if you can not identify yourself, i got to send you over to the army.
how long will that take?
they can tell right away. they have got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital.  take him over to g2.
may i suggest that you call the professor?
get going, will you, brady -- before i get mad!
you wrote this?
it was a clumsy way to introduce myself -- but i understand you are a difficult man to see.  i thought you would have the solution by this time.
not yet. that is why i wanted to see you.
yes -- that will reproduce the first- order terms. but what about the effect of the other terms?
almost negligible... with variation of parameters, this is the answer.
how can you be so sure? have you tested this theory?
i find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another.  i understand you have called a meeting to study our space ship.
as though unsure of what he is heard) yes -- yes, i have.
my name is klaatu.  i spent two days at your walter reed hospital. room 309. my doctor's name was major white -- and i had a very attractive nurse called ruth, who is getting married next wednesday.  if you are not interested -- or if you intend to turn me over to your army -- we need not waste any more time.
you have faith, professor barnhardt
it is not faith that makes good science, mr. klaatu. its curiosity.  sit down, please. i have several thousand questions to ask you.
i would like to explain something of my mission here.
that was my first question.
it was my intention to discuss this officially -- with all the nations of the earth -- but i was not allowed the opportunity. i have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society.  we know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. we also know that you are experimenting with rockets.
yes -- that is true.
in the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. but in the hands of your people--  we have observed your aggressive tendencies, and we do not trust you with such power.
if you mean that you are afraid of us--
we want to be sure you do not make -- let us say -- an unfortunate mistake. we know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children... you see, we have had atomic energy for five thousand of your years.  we discarded instruments like this many centuries ago.  so long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves -- with your primitive tanks and planes -- we were unconcerned. but soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships -- and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. that, of course, we cannot tolerate.
these other planets -- do they have peace and security?
we had our atomic wars -- thousands of years ago.  after that we fought with bows and arrows. then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution -- that aggression leads to chaos.
we scientists understand this. even we primitive scientists.  what exactly is the nature of your mission, mr. klaatu?
i came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger -- very grave danger. i am prepared, however, to offer a solution.
would you care to be more specific?
what i have to say must be said to all concerned.  it is too important to be entrusted to any individual.
i gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely successful.
i come to you as a last resort -- and i confess that my patience is wearing thin.  must i take drastic action in order to get a hearing?
what -- what sort of action do you mean?
violent action -- since that seems to be the only thing you people understand.  leveling the island of manhattan, perhaps -- or dropping the rock of gibraltar into the sea.
would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists i am calling together?. perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various peoples.
that is what i came to see you about.
it is not enough to have men of science. we scientists are too easily ignored -- or misunderstood. we must get important men from every field. educators -- philosophers -- church leaders -- men of vision and imagination -- the finest minds in the world.
i leave that in your hands.
you would have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting?
no -- not at all.
what about your personal safety in the meantime? what about the army -- and the police?
my name is carpenter and I am a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house.
I am afraid i can not offer you any real protection. i have no influence in cases of inter-planetary conspiracy.
I am sure I will be quite safe until the meeting.
one thing, mr. klaatu. suppose this group should reject your proposals. what is the alternative?
I am afraid you have no alternative. in such, a case the planet earth would have to be--  --eliminated.
such power exists?
i assure you such power exists.
the people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. they must understand what is at stake.  you mentioned a demonstration of force--
yes.
would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
yes -- of course.
something that would dramatize for them and for their people the seriousness of the situation. something that would affect the entire planet.
that can easily be arranged.
i would not want you to harm anybody -- or destroy anything.
why do not you leave it to me? I will think of something.
maybe a little demonstration.
something dramatic -- but not destructive.  it is quite an interesting problem.  would day after tomorrow be all right? say about noon?
everyone seems so--
jittery is the word.
bobby's the only person i know who is not -- jittery.
he has his homework to keep him occupied.
he is a fine boy, mrs. benson.
naturally i think so.
warm and friendly and intelligent--  you know -- he is the only real friend I have made since I have been here.
mr. carpenter -- this is none of my business, but -- why did that detective come here last night?
oh -- they just wanted to ask me a few questions. bobby and i tried to see professor barnhardt in the afternoon, but he was not in. apparently they thought i was looking for secrets of some kind.
hello--
you ready?
i will be in just a minute.
the picture starts at eight-fifty.
i was talking to mr. carpenter.
i hope mr. carpenter will not think I am intruding.
excuse me. i was just going up to my room.
goodnight, mr. carpenter.
oh, tom, that was awful.
I am sorry. i guess I am just tired of hearing about mr. carpenter.  i do not like the way he is attached himself to you and bobby. after all, what do you know about him?
all you have to remember is, first find the common denominator -- then subtract.
thanks, mr. carpenter.
I will say goodnight again.
mr. carpenter, i--  goodnight.
goodnight, my dear.
go to bed, darling. you can finish that in the morning.
okay.
bobby -- i think it would be better if we did not see quite so much of mr. carpenter
gee, why, mom? he is my best friend... and he is awful good in arithmetic. he even helps professor barnhardt.
did you and mr. carpenter really go to see professor barnhardt?
sure we did! he was not there but we went to see him. and mr. carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic.
mom -- is there something wrong with mr. carpenter?
what do you mean, dear?
i mean -- on account of that policeman last night.  you think he is a bank robber, maybe? or a gangster?
no, dear, of course not. he is a very nice man. i just think he might prefer to be left alone. now you get to bed and forget about it.  'night, darling.
bobby -- have you a flashlight?
yeah -- sure.  it is a real boy scout flashlight.
what do you want it for, mr. carpenter?
why -- the light in my room went out.  thank you, bobby. goodnight.
bobby--! what are you doing up at this hour?
i could not go to sleep, mom. i had to tell you!
tell me what?
i followed mr. carpenter -- right after you left -- and, gee, mom, where do you think he went? right into the space ship!
now, bobby, just a minute--
honest, mom, i saw him. it just opened up and he walked right in. and that great big iron man was moving around!
bobby, you have been dreaming again.
no, i haven't, mom. i promise you... i saw it!
now think back hard. you did not follow mr. carpenter at all, did you? you have not even been out of the house.
yes, i have!
you did not really see the space ship. you just thought you did.
he is not there.  but look what i found in his room
is it real?
looks real to me.
he gave these to you?
well, not exactly. i gave him two dollars.
gee, mom, do you think maybe he is a diamond smuggler?
come on, darling -- we are going up to bed.
i wonder if we ought to--
bobby and i have had enough excitement for tonight.
you think it is all right for you to stay here?
I have got a good lock on my door.  and bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight.
oh, boy -- can i, mom?
yes, dear. come on now.  bobby, your shoes are soaking!
yeah -- the grass was kind of wet.
oh -- hello--
may i see you for a minute?
i -- i was just going to lunch.
may i walk out with you?
I am at bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. i thought we might have lunch together.
i -- I am afraid i can not -- not right now. can i talk to you later?. yes, that will be fine. 'bye.
i saw bobby this morning before he went to school--
yes--?
i want to know what he told you last night.
i -- i did not really pay much attention--  bobby has such an active imagination.
did you believe what he told you?  i have a reason for asking this -- a very important reason.
what is it you want?
before i ask you to be honest with me, perhaps i should be completely honest with you--
what happened?
what time is it?
just twelve.
we will be stuck here for a little while -- about thirty minutes.
we could try pushing the other buttons.  i have a flashlight in my purse.
it will not work.
why not?
you see -- the electricity's been neutralized -- all over the world.
you should see it, professor barnhardt! you should go out and see it for yourself!
thanks -- I am enjoying it right here.
the whole city has stopped. people are running around like ants!
what a brilliant idea. i never would have thought of it.
what about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? have they all arrived?
i talked to most of them this morning... they were all very curious about the meeting.
good. did you speak to our friend mr. carpenter?
he will be there at 8:30.
tell me, hilda -- does all this frighten you -- does it make you feel insecure?
yes, sir -- it certainly does!
that is good, hilda. I am glad.
is it worth anything?
i have never seen such a stone. will you please tell me where it came from?
that is what i wanted you to tell me.
there are no diamonds like this -- any place in the world.
you sure about that?
would you like to sell it?
no -- no, thanks.
I would give you a very good price.
you hold great hope for this meeting.
i can see no other hope for your planet. if the meeting should fail, then I am afraid there is no hope.
it must be twelve-thirty.
yes -- just exactly.
where are you going now?
back to the boardinghouse. I will be safe there for the afternoon -- and i can keep an eye on bobby. he is the only other person who knows anything about--
no, wait a minute -- there is someone else.
who?
tom... he was there last night when bobby told me what he saw.
tom -- I have been trying to get you all afternoon--
come on in.
I have got some terrific news about your friend, mr. carpenter.
what about him?
helen, he is the man from the space ship!  i had that diamond checked at three different places. nobody on earth's ever seen a stone like that! after what bobby told us, that is enough for me. why is it nobody knows anything about him? why has not he got any money?
all right, tom -- it is true. i know it is true.
how do you know?
never mind about that.  you have got to promise me you will not say a word to anybody.
are you crazy? after what happened today?
you do not understand. you do not realize how important it is.
important? of course it is important. the point is we can do something about it.
that is what I am trying to tell you. we must not do anything about it. believe me, tom, i know what I am talking about.
he is a menace to the whole world! it is our duty to turn him in.
but he is not a menace! he told me what he came here for.
he told you... do not be silly, honey -- just because you like the guy.  you realize what this'd mean for us? I would be the biggest man in the country. i could write my own ticket.
is that what you are thinking about?
why not? somebody is got to get rid of him.
tom, you must not -- ! you do not know what you are doing! it is not just you and mr. carpenter. the rest of the world, is involved!
i do not care about the rest of the world!
you will feel different when you see my picture in the papers.
i feel different right now.
you wait and see. you are going to marry a big hero!
I am not going to marry anybody.
I am sure barnhardt can arrange to hide me until the meeting.
where is the meeting going to be?
at the ship.
it is only a few blocks to barnhardt's.
I am worried about gort. I am afraid of what he might do -- if anything should happen to me.
gort?  but he is a robot. i mean -- without you, what could he do?
there is no limit to what he could do. he could destroy the earth.  if anything should happen to me, you must go to gort. you must give him this message: "klaatu barada nikto." please repeat that.
"klaatu barada nikto."
remember those words.
hello.
i -- i thought you were--
i was.
you mean he has the power of life and death?
no -- that is a power reserved to the almighty spirit.
this technique, in certain cases, can re-stimulate life for a limited period. it is a refinement of scientific principles known to your own people.
but how -- how long--?
how long will i live?  that no one can say.
we will miss you very much -- bobby and i.  he will not have anyone to play with.
he will have you -- and tom.
no. that is all finished.
I am sorry.
i think I am very lucky. you do not always get a chance to recognize a mistake before you make it.
