most enjoyable. herbert greenleaf.
tom ripley. thank you, sir.
i see you were at princeton. then you will most likely know our son, dick. dickie greenleaf...
could you ever conceive of going to italy, tom, persuade my son to come home?  I would pay you. I would pay you 1000 dollars.
I have always wanted to go to europe, sir, but...
good. now you can go for a reason.
what is your secret?
excuse me?
no, it is just -- you are american, are not you? -- no, i just, i have so much luggage, and you are so, uh, streamlined. it is humiliating.
I am meredith, by the way. meredith randall.
dickie, dickie greenleaf. hello.
hello.
you are not the shipping greenleaf's?
trying not to be. trying to jump ship.
so now, did they put your suitcase in the wrong pile? it is just -- upstairs -- were not you under the r stand? i thought i saw you there.
my father wants me in new york. he builds boats. I would rather sail them. i travel under my mother's name.
which is?
emily.  just kidding.
the funny thing is, I am not randall either. I am logue.
as in the...?
as in the textile logues. trying to shrug off the dress. i travel under my mother's name, too.
randall.
right.
who is this?
it is tom. tom ripley. we were at princeton together.
okay.  and did we know each other?
well, i knew you, so i suppose you must have known me.
princeton is like a fog, america's like a fog.  this is marge sherwood. tom -- sorry, what was it?
ripley. hullo. how do you do.
how do you do.
what are you doing in mongi?
nothing. nothing much. passing through.
passing through! you are so white. did you ever see a guy so white, marge? gray, actually.
it is just an undercoat.
say again?
you know, a primer.
that is funny.
you should come and have lunch with us, before you go -- dickie?
sure. any time.
and be careful in the sun. your gray's in danger of turning a little pink.
sorry, sorry, sorry. i know, I am late, I am a swine.
did you forget where i live? it is four o'clock.
i just woke up. I am sorry.
you just woke up!
fausto and i -- we took the boat out, we were fishing, and then it was dawn and we would caught absolutely nothing.
well, we ate everything without you.
we?
yes, tom ripley's here.
who? oh, tom, hello, how are you? we thought you would disappeared. we were going to send out a search party.
no, still here.
tom was telling me about his trip over. made me laugh so much i got a nosebleed.
is that good?
shut up!
I am intruding.
can you mix a martini?
sure.
I will do it. i make a fabulous martini.
everybody should have one talent.  what is yours?
forging signatures. telling lies. impersonating practically anybody.
that is three. nobody should have more than one talent. okay, do an impression.
now? okay. wait a minute. talent --  the only talent my son has is for cashing his allowance.
what? what is this?
i like to sail, believe me, i love to sail! instead i make boats and other people sail them.
stop! it is too much! you are making all the hairs on my neck stand up!
jazz, let's face it, it is just an insolent noise.
i feel like he is here. horrible. like the old bastard is here right now! that is brilliant! how do you know him?
i met him in new york.
marge! you have got to hear this!
what? what?
meet my father, herbert richard greenleaf 1st.
pleasure to meet you, dickie's made a fine catch. i know emily thinks so.
what is going on?
uncanny!
i do not get it.
could you ever conceive of going there, tom, and bringing him back?
what?
I would pay you. if you would go to italy and persuade my son to come home. I would pay you $1000.
I am never going back!
no, i think your mother, her illness --
it is got nothing to do with my mother! she is had leukemia for -- ! this is what makes me boil about him! he wants me back! -- it is got nothing to do with my mother.
i do not know, dickie, I am just telling you what i --
go back! go back to new york or call him if you can find a telephone that works, and tell him wild horses would not drag me back to him or his shipyard.
hi tom.
marge, ripley's saying goodbye.
I will come down.
did you speak to my father?
you were right about the telephones. there are no lines, there is some problem.
hello tom. you are off? what are your plans?
back, i suppose, slowly as i can.
you like jazz!
i love jazz.
this is the best. marge says she likes jazz, but she things glenn miller is jazz.
i never said that!
bird. that is jazz.
bird! ask me the name of my sailboat --
i do not know. what is the name of your sailboat?
bird!
which is ridiculous. boats are female, everyone knows you can not call a boat after a man.
he is not a man, he is a god.
okay, we are going to naples. there is a club, it is not a club, it is a cellar.
it is vile.
yes, it is vile. do not worry, you do not have to come.  it is great. you are going to love it.
good afternoon!
what time is it?  oh god! do you always type your letters?  that should be two ts.
i can not write and i can not spell. that is the privilege of a first-class education. you are upstairs at the back. i think ermelinda made the bed up.
this is so good of you.
do not say it again. now you are a double agent and we are going to string my dad along, i was thinking we might buy a little car with the expense money he is sending you. what do you think, marge... a little cinquecento with my dad's money?
dickie, you can not even drive a car! no, what we need urgently is an icebox. what do you think, tom? agree with me and I will be your friend for life.
i absolutely agree with marge.
it will just be for a little while. he can be... he makes me laugh.
okay, darling.
you would say if you mind?
no, i like him.
marge, you like everybody.
i do not like you.
then I will go to your place and you can move in with tom.
now you know why miss sherwood always shows up for breakfast. it is not love it is the coffee machine.
it is the one task dickie can do on his own -- make coffee.
shut up.
oh darling -- is that for me?
no it is for tom as he did not complain.
that ring's so great. the green one.
tom, i love you!  see!  i bought it for him, for his birthday.
it is superb.
i had to promise, capital p, never to take it off -- otherwise I would give it to you.
bastard!  is not it great, tom? i found it in naples. i bargained for about two weeks.
i hope it was not cheap.
oh, it was.
i have to find a birthday present for frances. perhaps you can help me?
frances?
my fiance.
you are a dark horse, ripley. engaged?
your parents met her.
oh god -- i can just imagine -- if only dickie would settle down... does not every parent deserve a grandchild? never! i swear on your ring, marge. i am never going back.
I am doing this wrong, are not i?
you are doing great. we will make a sailor of you yet. you are doing really well.
dubious but special honor, tom -- crewing dickie's boat. alright, bar's open.
yes please!
could we sail to venice?
sure. i love venice.
i have to go to venice.
see venice and die, is not that right? or is it rome? you do something and die, do not you? okay, venice is on the list.
and rome.
do you ski?  do not tell me -- you are a lost cause! that is the next thing to deal with. we are planning to go to cortina at christmas. excellent skiing. excellent.  marge -- ripley can not ski. we will have to teach him that, too. have you ever known such low class?
if you are not at my place by 7.00, tom and i are running off together.
okay.
you are breaking my ribs!
what?
you are breaking my ribs!
i could fuck this icebox i love it so much.  what were you actually doing in new york?
i played piano in a few places.
that is one job, you told me a lot of jobs.
a few places -- that is a few jobs. anyway, i do not want to think about new york.
the mysterious mr ripley. marge and i spend hours speculating.  cold beer. thank you dad.
copy out from here...
i love the fact you brought shakespeare with you and no clothes. ermelinda says you wash the same shirt out every night. is that true?
no! I have got more than one shirt!
she can do that stuff for you. anyway, just wear some of my things, wear anything you want, most of it is ancient.
now your signature.  not "dickie". your signature.
without the glasses you are not even ugly.  i do not need them because i never read. how do i look.
like clark kent.  now superman.
i know. i write like a child.
pretty vile. see this: the s and the t, do you see? -- fine, vulnerable -- that is pain, that is secret pain.
it must be a deep secret, cause i do not know about it.
your handwriting -- nothing more naked. see -- nothing's quite touching the line -- that is vanity.
well we certainly know that is true.
do you have any brothers?
no, no brothers, no sisters.
me neither. nor does marge. all only children -- what does that mean?
means we never shared a bath. I am cold. can i get in?
no!
i did not mean with you in it.
okay, you get in. I am like a prune anyway.
what does he say?
he is getting impatient. he wants me to reassure him you will be home by thanksgiving.
you have got to get a new jacket. really. you must be sick of the same clothes. I am sick of seeing you in them.
i can't. i can not keep spending your father's money.
i love how responsible you are. my dad should make you chief accountant or something. let me buy you a jacket. there is a great place when we get to rome, batistoni.
where do we find a carozza for the forum, or can we hire any of them -- ?
relax.
it is just there is so much to do in a single day.
relax. the most important question is where to eat. i hope freddie made a reservation.
freddie?
freddie miles. you know -- he is organizing the cortina skiing trip.
frederico!
ciao bello.  do not you want to fuck every woman you see. just once.
this is tom ripley. freddie miles.
hey, if I am late, think what her husband's saying!
look, tom, we have got to go to a club and meet some friends of freddie's. the best thing is -- if you want to be a tourist -- grab a cab and we can meet up at the railway station.
what club?
freddie's arranged it with some of the skiing crowd. come if you want but i thought you wanted to see the forum...?
i did. and then maybe get the jacket and what have you...
dick -- you have got to hear this!
listen, just take one of mine when we get back. do not worry about it. i did the forum with marge and, frankly, once is enough in anyone's life.
shoes too?
you said i could pick out a jacket and i just... sorry.
get undressed in your own room, would you?
i thought you would missed the train.
freddie drove me back in his car.
is freddie here?
he is downstairs.
i was just fooling around. do not say anything. sorry.
you really should go in, it is marvelous.
I am fine.
are you okay?
sure.
the thing with dickie -- it is like the sun shines on you and it is glorious, then he forgets you and it is very very cold.
so I am learning.
he is not even aware of it. when you have got his attention you feel like you are the only person in the world. that is why everybody loves him. other times...
he is drowning me!
it is always the same whenever someone new comes into his life -- freddie, fausto, peter smith-kingsley -- he is wonderful -- did you meet him, he is a musician? -- ...and especially you, of course... and that is only the boys.
tell me, why is it when men play they always play at killing each other...? I am sorry about cortina by the way.
what about cortina?
did not dick say? -- he talked to freddie... apparently it is not going to work out --  freddie says there are not enough rooms.
come on, frederico, do you really have to go back? at least stick around for the festival of the madonna.
i do not think so. come back with me to rome. there is this great new club. have some drinks, lotta ladies...
do you think you can steer this thing?
sure.
just point her at capri and avoid the rocks.
what are you doing?
marge-maintenance.
aye, aye.
what is the fight about? that is her fiancee, is not it? are they blaming him?
i do not know! why are you asking me?  how can it take an hour to find an ambulance?
well, she was already dead, darling, was not she, so i suppose --
i do not know why people say this country's civilised. it isn't. it is fucking primitive.
dickie!
I will go and see what is the matter.
I will go.
she was pregnant. did you know that? do you know what that means in a place like this?
I am prepared to take the blame.
what are you talking about?
you have been so good to me. you are the brother i never had. I am the brother you never had.
she came to me for help, she needed money, and i did not help her. i did not help her. now she is dead and it is my fault.
I am not going to say anything -- to marge, or anybody, the police -- it is a secret between us and I will keep it.
...the thousand dollars, of course, was only due in the event that you succeeded in bringing dickie home. naturally, i hope the trip has afforded you some pleasure despite the failure of its main objective you need no longer consider yourself obligated to us in any way...
you can not blame him. you could hardly expect this to go on forever.
i thought you might write again. now that we are brothers...
i can't, how can i, in all decency? we have had a good run, have not we?
what about venice? can we stick to that plan at least?
i do not think so, tom. you can not stay on here without money. it is time we all moved on. besides I am sick of mongi. especially now with everything -- i really want to move to the north. i need to check out san remo next week, find somewhere new to keep the boat. but it would be great, though, if you came with me. our last trip before you leave. there is a jazz festival -- we could say goodbye in style. what do you think? a last trip?
to mongibello and the happiest days of my life.
to mongi. you are cheerful tonight.
I am suddenly quite happy to be going back.
that is good.
I have got plans!
ripley's plans.
esatto. I am always planning.
did i know you at princeton, tom? i didn't, did i?
why are you asking all of a sudden?
no reason. because you are leaving, i guess. i do not think you were there, were you?
why?
i mean it as a compliment. you have got such great taste, i do not know. most of the thugs at princeton had tasted everything and had no taste. used to say, the cream of america: rich and thick. freddie's the perfect example.
then I will take it as a compliment.
i knew it! i had a bet with marge!
ha.
do you even like jazz -- or was that something for my benefit?
I have gotten to like it. I have gotten to like everything about the way you live. it is one big love affair. if you knew my life back home in new york...
I am thinking of giving up the sax, what do you think about drums?
what?
so cool.
i wanted to tell you my plan.
so tell me.
i thought i might come back. in the new year. under my own steam.
really? to italy?
of course. let's say, for argument's sake, you were here -- perhaps we could split the rent on a house -- I will get a job -- or, better still, i could get a place in rome and when we are there we could be there and if we are here we could be here --
oh god, i do not think so.
you see, particularly with the marge problem, you can just blame me.
marge and i are getting married.
how?
how?
yesterday you are ogling girls on the terrace, today you are getting married. it is absurd.
i love marge.
you love me and you are not marrying me.
tom, i do not love you.
no, no, it is not a threat, I have explained all of that.
I am actually a little relieved you are going, to be honest. i think we have seen enough of each other for a while.
what?
you can be a leech -- you know this -- and it is boring. you can be quite boring.
the funny thing -- I am not pretending to be somebody else and you are. I am absolutely honest with you. I have told you my feelings. but you, first of all i know there is something -- that evening when we played chess, for instance, it was obvious --
what evening?
sure -- i know, that is too dangerous for you, fair enough, hey! we are brothers, fine, then you do this sordid thing with marge, fucking her on the boat while we all have to listen, which was excruciating, frankly, plus you follow your cock around like a -- and now you are getting married! I am bewildered, forgive me... you are lying to marge then getting married to her, you are knocking up silvana, you have got to play sax, you have got to play drums, which is it, dickie, what do you really play?
hello marge.
tom, you startled me! you are back.
how are you? sorry. is your book going well?
yes -- I am on a good streak, thanks.
i was just looking at you --  so quiet.
where is dickie?
i think he is planning on staying in rome for a few days.
ha. did he say why?
i do not know. i do not understand dickie, marge, so your guess is as good as mine.
what does that mean?
well, one day I am invited skiing, the next day I am not, one day we are all one family, the next day he wants to be alone. you tell me.
is that what he said -- he wanted to be alone?
he was thinking of you, marge -- he asked me to deliver this.
thanks. he knows i love this, although why it could not have waited...
errand number one -- deliver marge's perfume. errand number two, pack some clothes and his precious saxophone.
how long's he staying for?
search me. i guess we are abandoned.
he hates being confronted.
i think you are right.
but you are going skiing with us yankees, are not you?
what?
at christmas. to cortina with freddie miles and --
how did you know that?
everybody knows freddie miles.
is freddie in rome?
now? i do not think so. but I have met him, of course, and we have chatted and i know about you and marge and mongi and what an unreliable rat you are. freddie said you were a rat and i thought to myself now i know why he travels under r.
I have left marge, meredith. and mongi. so the rat's here now, in rome.
sorry, i would not have made a joke if --
do not be sorry. I have never been happier. i feel like I have been handed a new life.
the truth is if you have had money your entire life, even if you despise it, which we do -- agreed? -- you are only truly comfortable around other people who have it and despise it.
i know.
I have never admitted that to anyone.
show me the other one again.  i like them both.
I will take them both.
thanks so much for inviting me tonight.
can you bear it? we hear you are a friend of freddie's -- he has i hate opera tattooed on his chest.
there is room for a whole libretto on freddie's chest.
I am sure we have met.
i was sure we would met, were not you, ted? this is herbert greenleaf's boy.
thanks, yes, i think we did.
one minute you people are children and the next you are getting tattooed.
oh my god. tom.
marge, how are you? what are you doing in rome?
is he here? are you with dickie?
no.  hello, I am tom ripley.
peter smith-kingsley. I have heard about you, of course -- from marge, and dickie.
no glasses.
ditto.
where are you hiding him? he is impossible, is not he?
is he really not here?
marge, you know dickie has i hate opera tattooed on his chest.
you were going to venice.
yes, what happened? i heard you were desperate to come. i was looking forward to rowing you around.
i am. i really am. and I have been travelling. i just can not seem to get that far north.
well hurry, before we sink.  should i give you my telephone number in venice?
thanks.
look there is meredith thingy -- who is that, marge? -- they are in textiles... meredith --  god, how awful, I have spent christmas in her house...!
i do not know her.  he has not called, he is hardly written, just these cryptic notes. you do not just dump people.
will we see you later?
i can not later.
and tomorrow?
tomorrow's possible. do you know dinelli's? piazza di spagna?
i know the piazza di spagna. what time?
ten thirty?
we will be there.
okay. marge, see you tomorrow.  it is really good to meet you.
let's go.
i thought you were enjoying yourself?
let's take a carozza and look at the moon.
you are crazy! it is freezing out there.
c'mon, i need to talk to you. just the two of us.
okay then, you are crazy.
do not worry. really. do not worry.
you are such a pal to understand. it is as if marge is here now -- i look at you and i see her face -- and i can't, whatever I am feeling towards you -- i just can't...
no, i absolutely understand. of course.
otherwise you would be fighting me off.
beating you away.
will you meet me tomorrow? just to say goodbye in the daylight, properly? so it is not just this, it is too... you should always save pain for daylight...
oh meredith, I am sorry. of course I will meet you. let's have coffee in the morning at dinelli's.
i do not -- is that by the spanish steps?
exactly. 10.30 --
dickie? do you know dickie?
you were at the opera? well, that explains -- yes i was there. i was there with dickie.
i told you! i knew it!
marge, i do not know you, so i have no right, but dickie loves you. he is -- i think you will find he is coming home to you.
how would you know that?
he told me everything. i was supposed to meet him fifteen minutes ago, so i... I am going to go now, i think. unless he meant us to meet -- which would be a little cruel, would not it?
no, we are meeting another friend. tom ripley.
do you know tom?
sorry, sorry. had to renew my papers. italian bureaucracy -- never one stamp when they can make you line up for three. have you been waiting long?
not at all. morning tom.
hi.  sorry. you okay? you look as if you have seen a ghost...
dickie was at the opera last night.
i do not believe it. wild horses would not drag dickie to --
he was there with someone. so i suppose she must have dragged him -- that is not fair. I am going back to mongi. i think dickie's coming home.  I am going to go home.
really? that is swell. no, i was just -- you are way ahead of me! great!
we think he is had a change of heart.  so we should be celebrating.
i hope so.
that was moving, was not it? when meredith said --  meredith's the american girl i saw last night, i know her, at the opera, she is been seeing something of dickie --
my god.
but the point is dickie -- well we know this -- dickie loves marge and he misses her and apparently he is come to his senses...
it is fantastic.  i feel guilty. marge does not understand this, but anytime dickie does something i feel guilty.
hello?
dickie?
who is it?
it is freddie. let me in.
hello, freddie, it is tom, tom ripley.
oh hello, where is dickie? how are you?
yes, I am good, thank you. dickies at dinner. he is at otello's. do you know it?
i do not think he is at dinner at 6.30pm. if you said he was still at lunch I would believe you. incredible. the guy has disappeared off the face of the earth.
i guess.
the landlady -- as far as i could tell, the landlady said he was here right now.
he is gone to dinner! search the place. i can not think why you would imagine dickie would hide from you.
because he is been hiding from me -- what happened at christmas?
what about christmas?
he was supposed to come skiing. i did not get a cable or a call or a note or, frankly, a fart.
of course, he is been very involved in his music, has not he? i think his theory is, you know, you have to go into a cocoon before you can become a butterfly.
which is horseshit. have you heard him play that thing?  he can't.
how did you find him? it is such an out of the way apartment. can i fix you a drink?
no thanks.  some kid at the american express office.  are you living here?
no. no, I am staying here for a few days, in rome. that is a new piano, so you prob --
did this place come furnished? it does not look like dickie. horrible is not it? -- so bourgeois.
you should watch that!
in fact the only thing which looks like dickie is you.
hardly.
have you done something to your hair?
freddie, do you have something to say?
what? i think I am saying it. something is going on. he is either converted to christianity -- or to something else.
i suggest you ask dickie that yourself. otello's is on delle croce, just off the corso.
is it on "delle croce, just off the corso"? you are a quick study, are not you? last time you did not know your ass from your elbow, now you are giving me directions. that is not fair, you probably do know your ass from your elbow. I will see you.
dickie greenleaf?
yes?
inspector roverini. can we come in?
it is a terrible shock, eh? what time did signor miles leave yesterday?
i can not be absolutely sure -- 8? 9? we would both taken on far too many drinks -- but it was dark, it was certainly dark when i walked him down to his car.
so signor miles drove away and you did what?
i went to bed. freddie's a big man, but I am in trouble after a couple of drinks. I have suffered all day. who found him?
senta. we have to ask you to stay in rome.
yes, if it is going to help, certainly.
so, the doctor, he has to make the --  -- come se dice?
postmortem?
yes, exactly, but his first, his first conclusion was that signor miles was killed not later than seven of the clock yesterday evening.
well, he certainly was not dead when he drove off in his car.
no.
did he kill freddie?
marge, when did you get here?
tell me the truth. did he kill freddie?
I would swear he didn't. of course he didn't.
i tried again, waiting here, watching for him. instead it is you. whenever i look for dickie i find you.  what happened to your face?
dickie did it.
dickie?
my face! there was an argument. i said some things i should not have. about you. about the appalling way he is treating you, all of us. and the next thing i know he is launched himself at me.  are you getting on?
what?
get on. I will take you to him.
where does dickie live?
we passed it a few blocks back, where the police were. the palazzo gioia. they do not even know I am in rome and I am not going to incriminate dickie --
perhaps i should not go either.
no, well go if you want to, but do not talk to the police about my face -- they find out he hit me -- he is got a temper -- he could have hit freddie.  good luck, marge. I will catch up with you later.
can we go up? do you mind?
of course. what happened to your face?
my scooter. i fell off. getting chased by photographers.
the telephone, the press, I have been, I am feeling hounded -- do you think you could not give out my address?
never. we have had many requests and, of course, we say no -- even to your fiance.
i really do not want to see anybody.
even your fiance...?
even her.
what about thomas ripley?
what about ripley?
yes, sure, we did go to san remo. that was months ago.
november, i thought.
was it? did you speak to tom?
november 7th is my information.
i do not remember the exact date.
and when did you last see signor ripley?
a few days ago.
does he stay with you here?
no!
no. here is a pattern. two days ago freddie miles is dead -- he leaves your apartment and is murdered. yesterday a little boat is found in san remo full of rocks, and the owner tells the police it was stolen on november 7th. we look at hotel records and we see oh! dickie greenleaf is staying in san remo and then our boatman remembers two americans taking a boat.
it is not a pattern, it is a coincidence. there must be fifty hotels in san remo, there must have been a hundred people renting a boat on that day.
31 people.
31 people.
that is miss sherwood now. marge sherwood.
let her in, what is the difference? let her in.  no, actually, no, I would like it very much if you would ask her to come back later.
thank you.
may i ask... why would you speak to your friend and not your fiance?
i think i just said. ripley was handling some business for me, nor does mr ripley want to marry me. nor did he ask me every day if i would marry him. and when.
do you have a photograph of signor ripley?
I am not in the habit of carrying around photographs of my male friends.
now i think i have upset you. my english perhaps is coarse.
it is a little coarse, yes.
sorry. no one has seen signor ripley since san --
i have!
you have, yes.
no, i have and so has miss sherwood, ask her! and if i could remember which hotel he was staying at -- the goldoni! -- tom was staying at the goldoni.
good. the goldoni. yes -- you are right. a coincidence.  i look forward to our next meeting when i will be more careful with my english and persuade you to play me your saxophone. alto.
absolutely.
i have a witness who thinks they saw two men getting into mr miles' car. she wants to identify you in a -- confronto -- line-up.  tomorrow then?
tomorrow.
peter, I am really sorry to put you through this. i just could not face going to the police by myself when my italian's so rotten.
do not be daft. it is fine. I am delighted you finally made it to venice. I am delighted, contrary to rumour, you are still in one piece?
what rumour?
that dickie murdered you and is travelling under your passport. i know, ridiculous.
welcome to venice. this place reeks, does not it? can you smell it? ugh. sorry. not the best way to spend your first day.
it is okay.
anyway I have got to the bottom of the delay. finally. we are waiting for someone from rome.
what do you mean? they are sending someone from rome?
that is good, is not it?
no, but i thought that did not happen in italy, that each region was completely separate! i was sure that was the --
you have seen the papers, you know what a big deal it is been here. american tourist murdered --
it is ridiculous but now you have mentioned the stench i can hardly breathe.
ho assunto io la guida delle indagini in seguito alla negativa valutazione delle disdicevoli circostanze verificatesi con il mio predecessore roverini che come e noto non e riuscito a impedire il verificarsi della scomparsa del signor greenleaf, il quale era l'unica persona al momento passibile di incriminazione del reato di omicidio del signor miles.
he is taken over the case because... they are annoyed the previous chap let dickie... disappear when he was the only, he was the only suspect in freddie's murder.
quando e stata l'ultima volta che il signor ripley ha visto il signor greenleaf?
in rome, about three weeks ago.  i knew that one.
a roma, circa tre settimane fa.
dove e stato il signor ripley da allora?
where have you been since then?
I have been backpacking.
i do not know how to translate that.  e difficile... il signor ripley... dormiva all'aperto, con un...
all'aperto? col freddo che ha fatto?
he thinks it is very cold to be sleeping outside.
il signor ripley ha sviluppate tendenze omosessuali?
are you a homosexual?  interesting non-sequitur.
no.
no.  by the way, officially there are no italian homosexuals. makes leonardo, michelangelo very inconvenient.
tell him i have a fiance, dickie has a fiance and freddie miles probably had a string of them.
il signor ripley ha una fidanzata, il signor dickie ha una fidanzata e probabilmente il signor freddie miles ha molte fidanzate.
what did he say?
he says so many fiances.
he wants to know if you killed freddie miles and then killed dickie greenleaf?
no i did not. i did not kill freddie miles and then kill dickie greenleaf. is he accusing me?  ask him if he is accusing me!
he is already angry, i do not think --
just because he does not like americans!
non e questo il luogo per le vostre conversazioni private!
a ragione. a ragione.
hmm. c'e questa...
questa lettera e stata trovata nell'abitazione del signor richard greenleaf a roma.
they found this in dickie's place in rome.
can you imagine, if dickie did kill freddie, what must that be like? to wake up every morning, how can you? just wake up and be a person, drink a coffee...?
whatever you do, however terrible, however hurtful -- it all makes sense, does not it? inside your head. you never meet anybody who thinks they are a bad person or that they are cruel.
but you are still tormented, you must be, you have killed somebody...
do not you put the past in a room, in the cellar, and lock the door and just never go in there? because that is what i do.
probably. in my case it is probably a whole building.
then you meet someone special and all you want to do is toss them the key, say open up, step inside, but you can not because it is dark and there are demons and if anybody saw how ugly it was...
i keep wanting to do that -- fling open the door -- let the light in, clean everything out. if i could get a huge eraser and rub everything out... starting with myself... the thing is, peter, if...
no key, huh?
hello peter, so good to see you.
hello marge!
tom.
so you found peter...
i think we sort of found each other.
where is dickie's father?
he is not coming till the morning. evidently his stomach -- i do not think the food here is agreeing with him.
i was looking forward to seeing him.
dickie has not killed himself. I am sure of that. there is a private detective on the case now -- a mr maccarron -- dickie's father's employing him.
that is a terrific idea.
he is american. he is already discovered dickie cashed checks for $1000 the day before he disappeared.
is this you?
no, it is tom's. splendid, eh?
golly. who is paying for this?
this is spectacular.
that is why tom wanted you to stay. it is better than squeezing into my room, and i know how you hate hotels.
a hotel would have been fine.  we will have to tell mr greenleaf how far his dollar has stretched.
what is funny?
no, nothing. I am just thinking about when tom arrived in mongi.  and now look at you.
look at me what?
to the manner born.
mr greenleaf.
tom. how are you? you look well.
I am well, thank you.
far cry from new york.
yes it is.
marge, good morning. unusual weather.
very.
and you, sir? any better?
pretty good. sticking with hot water.
where is mr maccarron?
san remo. the police are amateurs. well, my boy, it is come to a pretty pass, has not it?
yes. what is the detective hoping to find in san remo?
he is being thorough, that is all. I am learning about my son, tom, now he is missing. I am learning a great deal about him. i hope you can fill in some more blanks for me. marge has been good enough to do that, about mongibello.
I will try my best, sir. obviously I will do anything to help dickie.
this theory, the letter he left for you, the police think that is a clear indication he was planning on doing something... to himself.
i just do not believe that!
you do not want to, dear. I would like to talk to tom alone -- perhaps this afternoon? would you mind? marge, what a man may say to his sweetheart and what he will admit to another fellow --
such as?
what a waste of lives and opportunities and --
no, marge does not know the half of it.
i think it might hurt her to know.
and his passport photo? did you hear? to scratch out your own face like that -- can you imagine -- the frame of mind you would have to be in?  I have thought about going to the police but i can not face it. i can not face anything anymore.
i feel guilty. i feel like i pushed him away. i spoke and he heard you.
well, if we all pushed him away what about him pushing us away? you have been a great friend to my son. everything is someone else's fault. we all want to sow wild oars. somebody is got to -- what is the word?  the moment someone confronts him he lashes out. he lashes out. you know, people always say you can not choose your parents, but you can not choose your children.
I am sorry. i was asleep. i must have fallen asleep.
you look ghastly, tom. are you okay?
did dickie's dad go?
he is having an early night.
poor man.  we were knocking on that door for ever.  i think I have broken my strap.
not guilty.
I will fix some drinks.
are you okay?
I am fine.
do you want me to stick around?
it is okay.
or i could come back.
tom?
marge, I am in the bath. will not be long.
tom, i need to talk to you. it is urgent.
i found dickie's rings.
what?
you have got dickie's rings.
i can explain.
dickie promised me he would never take off this ring.
let me put on some clothes and then we can talk about this.
i have to tell mr greenleaf. i have to tell mr greenleaf. i have to tell mr greenleaf.
marge, calm down, you are being hysterical.
he promised me. i swear I will never take off this ring until the day --
shut up! shut up!
marge? where are you going?
i was looking for a needle and thread. i was not snooping. i was looking for a needle and thread to mend my bra.
the scent you are wearing. i bought it for you, not dickie. the thing about dickie. so many things. the day he was late back from rome -- i tried to tell you this -- he was with another girl. I am not talking about meredith, another girl we met in a bar. he could not be faithful for five minutes. so when he makes a promise it does not mean what it means when you make a promise. or i do. he has so many realities, dickie, and he believes them all. he lies. he lies, that is his... half the time he does not even realize.
today, for the first time, I have even wondered whether he might have killed freddie. he would get so crazy if anybody contradicted him -- well, you know that. marge. i loved you -- you might as well know -- i loved you, and because he knew i loved you, he let you think i loved him. did not you see, could not you see? i do not know, maybe it is grotesque to say this now, so just write it on a piece of paper or something, and keep it in your purse for a rainy day. tom loves me.
why do you have dickie's rings?
i told you. he gave them to me.
why? when?
i feel as if you have not heard anything I have been saying to you.
i do not believe you.
it is all true.
i do not believe a single word you have said.
tom, are you okay?
you try. you try talking to her.
tom. tom! tell me, what is going on?
i give up.
is mr greenleaf here?
mr ripley? I am alvin maccarron.
i do not know, i do not know, i just know it.
marge, there is female intuition, and then there are facts --
tom.
hello, sir.  marge, you should have waited, did not peter tell you I would come by and pick you up?
marge has been telling us about the rings.
you know i feel ridiculous i did not mention them yesterday -- i clean forgot -- ridiculous.
perhaps you did not mention them because there is only one conclusion to be drawn.
I am going to take marge for a little walk, tom. mr maccarron wants to talk with you.
we could go down to the bar -- no need for you to --
no, he should talk to you alone.
i could probably see my bedroom from here. i can see my house. when you see where you live from a distance it is like a dream, is not it?
i do not care for b.s. i do not care to hear it. i do not care to speak it.
okay.
why do you think dickie's father sent him to europe in the first place? did you know at princeton dickie greenleaf half-killed a boy?
mr greenleaf appreciates your loyalty. he really does. marge, she is got a hundred theories, but there are a few things she does not know. we hope she never knows.
i hope she never knows.
three different people saw dickie get into freddie miles' car. a man who will not identify himself because he was jumping someone else's wife at the time saw dickie removing license plates from a red sports car. the police know about this man because he happens to be a policeman.
but i hope that note goes to new york in your purse, for a rainy day.
what are you going to do now, tom?
i do not know. peter has a concert in athens next month -- and he is asked if i want to go along, help out. he says goodbye by the way -- he is in rehearsal, otherwise --
why do i think there is never been a ripley rainy day?
what?
i know it was you -- i know it was you, tom. i know it was you. i know you killed dickie. i know it was you.
oh marge.
ask me what i want to change about this moment.
what do you want to change about this moment?
nothing.
hello. what are you up to?
all kinds of things. making plans.
plans -- good, plans for tonight or plans for the future?
i do not know. both. my plan right now is to go up on deck, look at the sunset. come with me.
you go. i do not want to get dressed yet. come back though. come back.  you know, you look so relaxed, like a completely different person.
well, that is entirely your fault. and, if i fall overboard, that will be your fault too.
dickie, my god!
hello meredith.
i was looking at you, your clothes, i would not have known you...
well, you have spotted me and so you get the reward.
what?
just kidding. are you alone?
hardly. i could not be less alone.
of course. aunt joan.
and co. a lot of co. oh, god, I have thought about you so much.
I have thought about you.
when i thought about you i was mostly hating you. where have you been hiding?
i have not been hiding. I have been in police custody. they have been trying to flush out freddie's killer.
you are kidding.
they are letting me have this vacation. which is why the get-up. which is why you have not heard from me.
you know, the whole world thinks you killed freddie? it is terrible.
i know. look, i can not talk now. later. later?
so -- are you travelling under r?
you know what -- i am.
dickie, are you with peter smith- kingsley? i bet you are. my aunt thought she saw him.
peter smith-kingsley? i have not seen him in months. no, I am alone.
how was it?
good. but i think we should stay in here for the rest of the trip.
was that meredith?
was who meredith?
meredith logue. you were kissing somebody. looked like meredith.
hardly kissing. kissing off.
did not look that way -- you know -- from a distance.
i lied. to her. she thought she would seen you.
why lie?
dickie and peter, that is just too good gossip, is not it?
or tom and peter even.
well that would be even better gossip.
really, why?  sorry, I am completely lost.
i know. I am lost, too. I am going to be stuck in the basement, are not i, that is my, that is my -- terrible and alone and dark -- and I have lied about who i am, and where i am, and so nobody can ever find me.
what do you mean lied about who you are?
i suppose i always thought -- better to be a fake somebody than a real nobody.
what are you talking about -- you are not a nobody! that is the last thing you are.
peter, i... i...
and do not forget. i have the key.
you have the key. tell me some good things about tom ripley. do not get up. just tell me some nice things.
good things about tom ripley? could take some time!... tom is talented. tom is tender... tom is beautiful...
you are such a liar...
...tom is a mystery...
