john henry patterson, come in. I am robert beaumont.  firm- i like that, tells me a lot about you-  -now why do not you tell me about me? to get you started, many people find me handsome, with a wonderful smile. I am sure you agree.  winning personality, heaps of charm?
my wife is the game player in the family, sir.
games?  look at me closely, patterson: i am a monster. my only pleasure is tormenting people who work for me, such as yourself.  one mistake and i promise you this: I will make you hate me.
-build the bridge over the tsavo river. and be finished in four months time. can you do that?
I am sure you have examined my record. so you know I have never yet been late on a bridge.
you have never built in africa.
but i have in india- every country presents problems.
you will need your confidence, i promise you.
I have got a reason far beyond confidence: my wife is having our firstborn in five months and i promised I would be with her when the baby comes.
very moving, patterson; I am touched you confided in me.  but i do not really give a shit about your upcoming litter. I have made you with this assignment-  -don't make me break you.
you will not have the chance.  any further words of encouragement?  then I have a train to catch.
i tried to be late, john- it would have been easier if you would gone.
we are not much good at goodbyes, helena.
tell me about beaumont- does he understand how brilliant you are, how lucky he is to have you?
it was embarrassing- the man showered me with compliments.
oh dear-  -you're geting that downtrodden look again-
-well, it is just...  ...other men do not abandon their wives at such a time-
-oh please- if I would been against your taking this, you would have abandoned me. you have been desperate to see africa your whole life.
what if there are complications?-
-not "what if"- there will be, there always are. which only means that our "son" and i- note my confidence- will have an excuse to come visit.
go, now.  such a gentleman.
i am desperate to see africa- but i hate the leaving.
many thanks.  you are patterson, yes?  nigel starling- I will be assisting you at tsavo- but surely beaumont must have told you that.
he just gave me his "monster" speech.
that. i know robert seems dreadful, but when you truly get to know the man, well, he is much worse.  and I am one of his defenders.  forget him for now- it is your first ride to tsavo- i think you will find it breathtaking.
do not much like them.
the females are bigger- only animal here like that- have to be or they would not survive because the males eat the young.
anything special about them?
just that they fart through their mouths.  must make kissing something of a gamble.
I have lived in africa a year and i do not know what you know. how long have you been here?
almost three hours.  but I have been getting ready all my life.
every time i see something like that, i know we are right to be here- to bring christianity into their lives, enrich their souls.
beaumont says it is to end slavery.
we all have our reasons. mine is simply to make them understand happiness, accept salvation, know the serenity that comes-  -best i stop. one of the by-products of my belief is that i can become amazingly boring. but i know god smiles on me.
have you got that in writing?
samuel is camp liaison- absolutely indispensable- the only man here everyone trusts.
does he speak english?
excellent. could i see the bridge site?
I have got medical supplies to deliver. come along to the hospital when you are done.
why do the workers look unhappy?
because they are here.  because tsavo is the worst place in the world.  come, john- to the bridge.
it is all wonderfully under control, samuel- you have done a splendid job.
thank you. the truth is this: you have to work at it constantly.
the workers do not get on?
get on? they detest each other. obviously the africans hate the indians. but the indians also hate the other indians. some of them worship cows, while others eat them.
did it look like this in your mind?
this is more difficult-
finish your tour?
and anxious to get started.  what is this, mostly malaria?
yes- but their suffering is only transitory- once they except god into their hearts, he will vanquish all pain.
I am david hawthorne, this is my hospital. and my advice to you is, "don't get sick in front of it."  that was meant to be charming, sorry. i seem to have lost the knack.
you never had it.
nigel and i do not like each other much.
i am also liaison between these two.
clearly you do not agree about building the railroad?
this sham? ridiculous. who needs it? it is only being built to control the ivory trade, make men richer.
then why do you stay?
who else would hire me?  beat you to it, did not i?  oh yes, almost forgot- brought you a little welcoming gift.
a man-eater attacks and you are such a buffoon you almost forget to mention it?
well, he got away, did not he?  riding a donkey not far from here when the lion sprang on them- donkey took the brunt of it- then suddenly the lion ran off.
i know it is your first day and of course you must be tired from the journey-  -but what are you going to do about it?
karim will have to show me where it happened. and of course, I will need the donkey.  with any luck, I will sort it out tonight.
i could not believe it when you said "sort it out." as if it were the most normal thing in the world. "ho-hum, what lovely tea, i think I will bag a killer beast this evening, nothing much else going on anyway."
well, he put me in a spot, did not he? but that is all right- after all, I am responsible for everything that happens here. and it certainly will not do much for morale if a man-eater's on the prowl.
you said "of course" you would need the donkey. why "of course"?
we know three things about man-eaters. first, they always return to where they have attacked before. second, they are always old- they can not catch other animals so they turn to us. and third, they are always alone- they have been cast out by their pride because they can not keep up.
i do not suppose i could watch.
might be exciting for you.
I have never been all that adventurous. i would not be in the way?
I would love the company. and I have hunted all my life.
well, why not? you seem so calm and experienced.  why not, indeed!
i hate to be a bother, john, but the cramp's getting worse.  the pain is actually quite unbearable now.
shhh.
I am sure you mean that to be comforting, but-
-you'll have to deal with it, nigel.
that is precisely my plan- but back in my tent.
john? i know this is not the time to ask, but-
what?
since you would only been here three hours when we met, are you sure this is how you hunt lions?
not to terrify you, nigel, but it is worse than you think- I have never even seen one.
...one shot...
so that is what a lion looks like.
with much more on the way-  -john- we could have had this chat on flatter ground-
-true enough- but without the comedy relief.
how lucky we are.
are not we full of ourselves today?  i think it is because of the lion.
possibly.
all right- thee second embankment will go there.
you do plan to mark it a bit more precisely than just-  -"there."
in your honor, nigel. and you and singh will be in charge of building them- and you will also build the roadbeds and the three foundation pillars- and you will be finished in eight thrilling weeks.
john, it will not be easy.
nigel, you will just have to use your hands-
what are they looking at?
you- they cannot believe you are still here.
nonsense.
you do not know what tsavo means, do you?  it means "slaughter"...
-then he feasted on him, starting with his feet-
-please- you need not be so graphic-
you intend "sorting this out" tonight?
I will try- but this feels so different- that old lion i killed could never carry off a man singh's size.
but you said they were always old.
that is what the books say...
you were contracted to work-
-malaria epidemic; very sudden.
let me see the sick.
oh, you are a doctor now, too?
there is no reason for fear.
on that i choose to remain dubious.  two are dead now in two nights.
second death? where?-
-far end of camp- man wandering alone at night. hawthorne's examining the body now.  there is even less of him than of singh.
but it is crazy- the lion should not be that hungry this soon.  samuel?
we should construct thorn fences around every tent area. fires burning at night.
fine. get started. and a strict curfew- no one allowed out at night.  send half your men to the bridge, the rest with these two.  and I am sorry for my tone earlier. but i repeat- there is no reason for fear. i will kill the lion and i will build the bridge.
what a good week.
you mean nobody died?
we all worked together. worthy deeds were accomplished. i liked the labor.  my mother insisted on piano lessons- broke the dear woman's heart when i turned out to be tone deaf- but she still was always at me about being careful with my hands.  i like the blood, is that strange?
oh yes, i think so.
look out, samuel, here it comes.
for you.
thank you, samuel.
good news?
i expect so- it is from my wife.
do you love her?
i do, actually; very much.
you give me hope, john.
-oh, sing a different song, abdullah-  -there's nothing wrong with your men so stop telling me there is-
-you do not call me a liar- you know nothing of their health- consider yourself fortunate i persuaded so many to stay- consider yourself fortunate i have decided to stay-
you think you matter?  -beaumont is on that train- he matters-
he sees this chaos, he will replace you all.
he will replace you, too- that is all you really care about.
you think so? fine.  it is best you get out. go. tell all your people to go, run home where they will be safe under the covers and when the bridge is built and the railroad is done, they can tell their women that out of all the thousands who worked here, they were the only ones to flee-
pleasant journey?
how could it be? i hate africa.
lovely sound- they seem happy.
do not they, though?
so work must be going well?
truthfully?  there has been the occasional odd hiccup- but then, as you so wisely told me, I would never built in africa.
but overall, you are pleased?
morning, friend, glorious day.
as are they all.
i do need to see starling.
starling?
awhile back he ordered some bibles-  -i've brought them.  is he here?
yes he is.
well, i need to speak to him.
it is what the natives are calling the lions-  -two lions have been causing trouble-
-what's the surprise in that, this is africa?
it has not been that simple so far.
what have they done besides kill starling?  how many have they killed?
this is supposed to be salvation?  what kind of idiocy are we dealing with here?
I am calling it my "contraption"- we are going to surround it with a boma- a fence, to you- and we are going to leave a small opening opposite that door.
in that half will be bait- human bait- I will start things off-  -a sliding door will fit above that and a trip wire will run across the floor.
genius- the beast will enter, tripping the wire, the door will slide down, trapping him, you, safe behind the bars, will have him at your mercy and will shoot him.
are you running a high fever, man? how could you expect something as lunatic as this to succeed? how could you even conceive of it?
i did not conceive of it for the lions- i built one in india when there was trouble with a tiger.
and it worked?
in point of fact, it didn't.  but I am convinced the theory is sound.
what?
i made a mistake hiring you- you are simply not up to the job.
you genuinely enjoy trying to terrify people, do not you? well, fine-  -except there is not a higher rated engineer and we both know that. and since time is so important to you, how long do you think it would take to find someone else qualified and bring him here?
let me explain about time- you have been here three months and already two months behind. and the germans and the french are gearing up. and i do not care about you and i do not care about the thirty dead- i care about my knighthood and if this railroad finishes on schedule, I will get my knighthood and i want it.  professional hunters may be the answer.
all they will bring is more chaos and we have plenty of that already- and if they come in, word will get out- and what happens to your knighthood then?
I am going to try and locate redbeard- i assume you have heard of him.
every man who is ever fired a rifle has heard of him- by the time you find him, the lions will be dead.
very well, the job's still yours, I will go. but if i have to return, you are finished. and i will then do everything i can to destroy your reputation. am i not fair?  told you you would hate me.
very good indeed.
we have hunted since childhood.
all right- you will spend your nights inside.  you will have plenty of ammunition. you are totally protected, you have really nothing to fear.
that is correct.  nothing.
not once?- you did not hit it once?-
-i would never make excuses- but a fire broke out- the light was bad- he kept moving-
-well, of course he kept moving- but he could not have been more than ten feet away from the three of you- surely you must have wounded the thing-
i assure you we came close many times-
the next time will be as this time- the devil has come to tsavo-
-that's ridiculous talk and you can not seriously believe it-
-now you are telling me my beliefs?- i do not think so-
i was not and you know it and do not push it- just listen- we have a problem in tsavo-
-at last you are right- we do- you are the problem in tsavo-
-careful, abdullah-
no hints, samuel.
you do not know all that has happened here- the devil has come to tsavo.
you are right. the devil has come. look at me. i am the devil.
i am a man of peace.
am i to take it you want to live?
most certainly. absolutely. yes.
excellent decision.  your name is abdullah? I am sure we will meet again. go and enjoy the splendid morning.
i think it is been a pleasure.
i did not have a chance to thank you.
what did i do?
got me out of trouble.
nonsense- samuel would have done something.
we need to talk.
let me save time-  you are the engineer;  you are in charge;  you are sorry I am here. right so far?  good- because  i am not an engineer,  i do not want to be in charge, and  I am sorrier than you are that I am here- i hate tsavo. so i will help you by killing the lions and leaving, and you will help me by doing what i tell you so i can leave. see any problems?
actually, no.
all right- let's go into battle.  I am redbeard.
somehow i guessed.
starting now, we attack them.
how; we do not know where they are?
we will have to make them come to us, will not we? and since there are two of them, we are going to set two plans in motion.  first: we must move the entire hospital by tomorrow night.
that is a terrible idea-
-is it, I am sorry, but then, of course, you are the doctor, you should know.
silliest thing i ever heard of- why in the world should we go through all that?
i suppose i could answer you. i suppose i could explain that the place is so inviting, what with the smell of blood and flesh, that they have to strike. it is even possible that i tell you i found some fresh paw marks around back which means they are already contemplating feasting here.  but i do not want to answer you because when you question me you are really saying that i do not have the least idea what i am doing, that i am nothing but an incompetent, that i am a fool.  anyone who finds me a fool, please say so now.
i have been desperate for patterson to let me move the hospital since the day he arrived.
then we agree.
soon.
i have to ask- why do you need me?
i do not really. but understand something- even though it may take me two or three days to sort this out-  -when I am gone, you will still have to build the bridge. and i do not want the men to have lost respect for you.
that is very considerate.
I am always considerate- my mother taught me that.
why do you laugh?- you do not believe she taught me?
i do not believe you had a mother.
you like him, do not you?
oh yes. but it takes time.
you have known him long?
since his beard was red.
how many cattle?
four should do it.
they will want a lot of money.
have you got it?
no, but you do-  -see, you were needed after all.  and fifty warriors at the camp before dawn.
why so many?
because i have two plans to kill the lions- one involving the cattle, the other the men.
you are certain about tomorrow?  but you do not seem excited.
you do not enjoy killing, do you?
then why do it?
thank you.  why does he need you by him?
he doesn't. he needs nobody. but we have hunted many times...  ...he knows i am afraid of lions...
the best way to ensure the kill when you are using trackers is for one to shoot while the other uses the trackers to force the lion toward the shooter. have you ever led trackers?
i can try.
samuel says you killed a lion.
it was probably luck- I would rather you did the shooting.
you would never force the lion to me- and nobody ever got a lion with one shot by luck.  around there is a clearing- you will know it from the anthills- get there and hide and listen to the sounds- I will make the lion come directly to you.
did you ever see a lion that size?
not even close.  what happened?
...misfire... it jammed...
has it ever done that before?
...don't know...
gentlemen, there is no sickness smell at all here, and little blood. when we leave, close the gate securely, do not open it til morning and keep your fires high. any questions, ask them now.  you two will sleep beautifully in your tents.  and stay there.
and where will you sleep beautifully?
patterson and i will be in the old hospital- where the enticing smell of sickness still lingers-  -and by the time we are done, i promise you, the odor of blood will be irresistible.
think about something else.
have you ever failed?
only in life...
goddammit!
it is all right. stay ready.  they know it is there.
meant to ask you- the railroad car trap. your idea?  excellent notion- i used the same device myself once.
but of course yours worked.
in point of fact it didn't- but I am convinced the idea is sound.
it would have been a beautiful bridge, john. i never noticed before, occupied with other business, i	suppose...  ...never really pay much attention to that kind of thing but I have had the time today, nothing else on, and this... it is graceful and the placement could not be prettier... and...
you just got hit.  the getting up is up to you- but they are only lions-  -and I am going after them crack of dawn...
in my town, when i was little, there was a brute, a bully who terrorized the place.  but he was not the problem. he had a brother who was worse than he. but the brother was not the problem.  one or the other of them was usually in jail. the problem came when they were both free togther. the two became different from either alone.  alone they were only brutes. together they became lethal, together they killed.
what happened to them?
i got big.
their den?  have you ever seen anything like this?
nobody's seen anything like this. lions do not have caves like this-  -they're doing it for pleasure.
where could it have gone? how could it get across the water?  they are only lions, yes?
do not they have to be?...
they are used to people in trees, not in a clearing.  it may be tight.
not for me- I am too bulky and it is your idea, you go up there.  take the others to the water tower for the night.
I will be bait alone?
yes. and I will be in some distant tree where i can provide no assistance whatsoever.  can you control your fear?
I will have to.
i can not control mine- I would be lost without the shame factor driving me.
was that supposed to make me feel better?
it is certainly the best chance they have had to kill you.
you think they will come then?  why?
good luck.
why?
because i think they are after you.
how many do you think they have killed?
the most of any lions... a hundred...?  probably more.  johnny...?
understand, i had help-
-not a time for modesty, bob-
i never thought I would say this, but I am glad you came.
understood- you realize now you could never have done it without me.
actually, i could have done it much more easily without you, but for whatever reason, I am glad you came.
where do you go next?
some russian princes want to hunt the himalayas. you?
help finish the railroad.
three years I have worked for the railroad. now i do not know why. it seemed a good idea once.
i feel the same about the bridge. this country certainly did not ask for it, does not need it.
my life was shaped because someone invented gunpowder. our lives have crossed because two lions went mad. but what if in the future the three of us do something grand for humanity? was that worth all the lives? too soon to tell.
some mysteries should not have solutions.
hold your son high.
he has children?
once...
where is it?
underneath.  somewhere.
afraid of lions.
it is all right, samuel- we all get hit-
