personally, i would like to surrender. why can we not just surrender?
shut-up and gimme your bandolier.
now go find me a big stick.
in the desert? what for?
how did a guy like you end up in the legion anyways?
i got caught robbing a synagogue. lots of good stuff in them holy places; churches, temples, mosques, and who is guarding them?
altar boys?
exactly! i speak seven languages, including hebrew, so my specialty was synagogues. how about you? kill somebody?
what then? robbery? extortion? kidnapping!
none of the above, thank you.
then what the hell are you doing here!?
I am sorry, it was an accident.
when ramesses destroyed syria, it was an accident. you are a catastrophe! why do i put up with you?
you put up with me, because i can read and write ancient egyptian, decipher hieroglyphs and hieratic, and I am the only person within a thousand miles who knows how to properly code and catalogue this library.
who needs smart women? i put up with you because your mother and father were our finest patrons, allah rest their souls. now straighten up this mess!
you...! you...!
drunkard? fool? rat-bastard? please call me something original.
have you no respect for the dead?
right now, i only wish to join them.
well i wish you would do it sooner rather than later, before you ruin my career the way you have ruined yours.
my dear, sweet, baby sister, I will have you know, that at this moment my career is on a high note.
oh yes i do! i have something right here!
oh no, not another worthless trinket, jonathan, if i bring one more piece of junk to the curator to try and sell for you.
jonathan?
yes?
i think you found something.
see the cartouche there, it is the official royal seal of seti the first, I am sure of it.
perhaps.
two questions. who the hell is seti the first? and was he rich?
he was the last pharaoh of the old kingdom, said to be the wealthiest pharaoh of them all.
alright, good, that is good. i like this fellow, like him very much.
yes. the city of the dead. where the early pharaohs were said to have hidden the wealth of egypt.
right, right, in a big underground treasure chamber. everybody knows the story. the entire necropolis was rigged to sink into the sand. on pharaoh's command, a flick of the switch! and the whole place could disappear beneath the dunes.
all we know is that the city mysteriously vanished around 2,134 b.c.
you told me you found it on a dig down in thebes!
i was mistaken.
you lied to me!
i lie to everybody, what makes you so special?
I am your sister.
that just makes you more gullible.
you stole it from a drunk at the local casbah?!
picked his pocket, actually.
and what is he in prison for?
i did not know, so when i heard you were coming, i asked him that myself.
and what did he say?
he said... he was just looking for a good time.
but he is just a filthy criminal?
way to go, evy.
so who is the broad?
broad?!
she is my sister, actually.
yeah? well,... I am sure she is not a total loss.
we uh,... found... your puzzle box, and we have come to ask you about it.
no.
no?
no... you came to ask me about hamunaptra.
how do you know the box pertains to hamunaptra?
because that is where i found it. i was there.
hey,... do not i know you?
um, well, you see...
you were actually at hamunaptra?
i just decked your brother
yes, well...  i know my brother.
yeah, i was there.
you swear?
every damn day.
no, i mean --
-- i know what you mean. i was there, alright. seti's place. the city of the dead.
what did you find? what did you see?
i found sand. i saw death.
could you tell me how to get there? the exact location?
want to know?
yes.
really want to know?
where are they taking him?
to be hanged.
no women allowed.
i am an english woman.
i will give you one hundred pounds to spare his life.
i would pay one hundred pounds just to see him hang.
two hundred pounds.
proceed!
three hundred pounds!
you lie.
i would never!
are you saying this filthy godless son of a pig knows where to find the city of the dead? truly?
yes and if you cut him down, we will give you ten percent.
fifty percent.
twenty.
forty.
give... give him... give him glaaaa-- !
twenty-five percent, and not one single farthing more.
she is like all the others. she will die in the desert.
no! she has seen too much. she knows too much.
the key!? she has the lost key!?
yes. no one has ever had so much, been so close. we must stop her, or it will be the end of us all.
then we will kill her, we will kill her and all those with her.
and burn the map and retrieve the key.
it will be done. but what of the american expedition? they leave tomorrow as well.
forget the bumbling americans, they will be like all the others. without the map to guide them, how can they possibly find hamunaptra?
do you really think he will show up?
undoubtedly, i know the breed, he may be a cowboy, but his word is his word.
personally, i think he is filthy, rude and a complete scoundrel. i do not like him one bit.
a bright good morning to all.
what are you doing here?
i have come to protect my investment, thank you very much.
sit down, o'connell, sit down, we could use another good player.
i only gamble with my life, never my money.
sorry, did not mean to scare ya.
the only thing that scares me, mister o'connell, are your manners.
still angry that i kissed ya, huh?
if you call that a kiss.
did i miss something? are we going into battle?
the last time i was at that place everybody i was with died.
there is something out there, you know, something under that sand.
yes, I am hoping to find a certain artifact, a book, actually, my brother thinks there is treasure. what do you think is out there?
evil. the tuaregs and the bedouin believe that hamunaptra is cursed, they call it, "the doorway to hell."
ahmar is ossirion. "passageway to the underworld", actually.
i do not believe in fairy tales and hokum, mister o'connell, but i do believe that one of the most famous books in history is buried out there, the book of the living. it is what first interested me in egypt as a child. it is why i came here, sort of a life's pursuit.
and the fact that they say it is made out of pure gold, makes no nevermind to you, right?
you know your history.
i know my treasure.
my very good friend! what a surprise.
why if it am not my little buddy, beni. i oughta kill you.
you never were any good with the ladies, o'connell.
so you are the one leading the americans, i shoulda figured. so what is the scam? you get 'em out in the middle of the desert then leave 'em to rot?
unfortunately no, these americans are smart, they pay me only half now, half when i get them back to cairo, so i must go all the way.
the girl saved my life, figured it was the least i could do, keep her out of trouble.
you always did have more balls than brains.
let's make us even, shall we?
even?
o'connell! i am going to kill you for this!
sounds familiar.
relax! I am the map!  it is all up here.
oh that is comforting.
can you swim?
well of course i can swim, if the occasion calls for it.
trust me.
hey o'connell! looks to me like i got all the horses!
hey beni! looks to me like your on the wrong side of the river!
i can not believe the price of these fleabags.
we coulda had 'em for free, all we had to do was give 'em your sister.
yes, awfully tempting, was not it?
awfully.
we are almost there.
are you sure?
for what?
we are about to be shown the way.
ah, begging your pardon, but should not we be going?
after all, you rode us night and day to win that bet.
that thing gives me the creeps.
be nice. that thing saved my life.
that "thing" gets me excited.
the things that get you excited.
according to bembridge scholars, inside the statue of anubis was a secret compartment, perhaps containing the book of the living.
what are those mirrors for?
ancient egyptian trick. you will see.
do you realize, we are standing inside a room that no one has entered in over four thousand years.
who cares? i do not see no treasure.
you are welcome to my share of the spider webs.
and it stinks to high heaven in here.
oh my god, it is a preparation room.
preparation for what?
for entering the afterlife.
ten to one, o'connell, your odds are no-so-good.
I have had worse.
according to my calculations, we should be right under the statue. we will come up right between his legs.  oh my.
and when those dirty yanks go to sleep --  no offense.
none taken.
we will sneak up and steal that book right out from under them.
and you are sure you can find the secret compartment?
lemme get this straight, they stuck a sharp, red hot poker up your nose, cut your brain into small pieces, then ripped it all out through your nostrils?
owch! that is really got to hurt.
it is called mummification. you are dead when they do this
still...
yeah, that would bring you back to life.
you two are worse than a couple of schoolboys.
oh my god,... it looks like, it looks like a sarcophagus.
why would they bury somebody in the ceiling?
they didn't, they buried him at the foot of anubis. he was either someone of great importance. or he did something very naughty.
there is some sort of lock here. you say these thing's are made of granite with a steel interior?
quarried granite with a cobalt lining.
whoever's in here, sure was not getting out.
no kiddin', without a key, it will take us a month to crack this thing,
a key! that is it! that is what he was talking about.
who was talking about what?
what do you suppose killed him?
did you ever see him eat?
seems the americans had a little misadventure of their own today, three of their diggers were killed.
how?
salt acid. pressurized salt acid. some sort of ancient booby-trap.
you two!
you do not believe in curses, huh?
no. i believe if i can see it and i can touch it, then it is real. that is what i believe.
goin' somewhere?
just looking for you, o'connell! i wanted to be with my friend!
c'mon, friend.
why do you like to fight so much?
'cause i look good doin, it.
see! that proves it! old seti's fortune's got to be under this sand!
for them to protect it like this, you just know there is got to be treasure down there.
unlike your brother, miss, you i do not get. you are a whole new brew.
i know, you are wondering, what is a place like me doing in a girl like this?
something like that.
egypt is in my blood. my father was a famous explorer, he loved egypt so much that he married an egyptian. my mother! who was quite an adventurer herself
okay, i get your father, i get your mother and i get your brother, but what are you doing here?
i may not be an explorer, or an adventurer, or a treasure hunter, or a gunfighter! mister o'connell but I am proud of what i am.
and what is that?
I am going to kiss you, mister o'connell.
no you are not.
I am not?
not unless you call me rick.
why would i do that?
because that is my name.
i can not believe i allowed the two of you to get me drunk.
do not blame me, i do not even remember being there.
well neither do i, thank you.
no... why?... should i?
gee, yeah, you told me it was the best time you ever had.
oh my god, I have dreamed about this ever since i was a little girl.
you dream about dead guys?
tough break.
yes, I am all tears, now let's see who is inside, shall we?
is he supposed to look like that?
no. I have never seen a mummy look like this. he's, he is still...
juicy?
yes. he is more than four thousand years old and still decomposing.
where is my gun?
what are you going to do? shoot him?
if he decides to wake up, hell yes!
i would not trade ya for a brass spittoon!
yeah! it is supposed to be made outta pure gold!
you did not!?... we are not!?
rat gizzards. they smell bad and taste worse, but that is the best the desert has to offer.
are you saying somebody threw these things in with our guy, and they slowly ate him alive?
very slowly.
he certainly was not a popular fellow when they planted him.
must of got a little too frisky with the pharaoh's daughter.
according to my readings, our friend suffered the hom-dai, the worst of all ancient egyptian curses, one reserved for only the most evil blasphemers. in all of my research, I have never read of this curse actually having been performed.
that bad huh?
yes, they never used it because they feared it so. it is written, that if a victim of the hom-dai should ever arise, he would bring with him the ten plagues of egypt.
the ten plagues?... you mean all ten plagues.
like what that moses guy did to that pharaoh guy?
that is one way of putting it.
the sun turning black.
water turning to blood.
you sure you outta be playin, around with that?
it is just a book, no harm ever came from a book.
did you see that!? grasshoppers! billions of grasshoppers!
that is one of the plagues, right? the grasshopper plague!
i told you to leave or die, you refused, and now you may have killed us all. for you have unleashed the creature that we have feared for more than four thousand years.
relax, i got him.
no mortal weapons can kill this creature. he is not of this world.
are we talkin, about the same creature? the walking corpse? really big mouth? really bad breath?
you bastards!
what did you do to him!?
we saved him! saved him before the creature could finish his work. now leave, all of you, quickly, before he finishes you all.
you are not going to kill us?
having an encounter with a four thousand year old walking-talking corpse tends to convert one.
forget it, we are out the door down the hall and gone.
no, we are not.
no we are not. we woke him up, and we must try and stop him.
we?! what we?! you did not read that book. i told you not to play around with that thing.
alright then, me, i,... i read the book, i woke him up and i intend to stop him.
then we will have to find some immortal ones.
there goes that belief again. not me, i am outta here!
according to that book, once this creature has been reborn, his curse will spread, and as he grows in strength, so will his curse grow, infecting the people until the whole of the earth is destroyed.
yeah? so? is that my problem?
it is everybody's problem!
look lady, i appreciate you saving my life and all, but when i signed on, i agreed to take you out there and bring you back, and i did, now were even, end of job, end of story, contract terminated.
that is what i am to you? a contract?
you can either tag along with me, or you can stay here and play around with mister maggot.
I am staying.
fine.
beni ya little stinkweed, where did you slink off to?
you left me! you left me in the desert to rot.
oh yeah,... sorry bout that.  so who is this guy?
this is prince imhotep, high priest of osiris.
oh, hey, how ya doin'?
the prince does not like to be touched by other humans. a silly eastern superstition, I am afraid.
yeah, well, we all got our little problems today do not we?
he has come to help mister burns. somehow i feel responsible.
do not gimme that, you never had any scruples.
do you know where i can steal some?
who is here!?
the guy! the priest! the mummy!
he is here! i saw him! that thing is here!
the creature!? are you sure!?
miss carnavon. gentlemen.
what is he doing here?
do you truly wish to know? or would you prefer to just shoot us?
I am willin, to go on a little faith, here.
you will not believe it.
try me.
and you think this justifies killing innocent people!?
to have stopped this creature? yes!
okay, let's cut to the chase. he is afraid of cats, what is that about?
according to the ancients, cat's are the guardians at the gates of the underworld. imhotep will fear them until he is fully regenerated, and then he will fear nothing.
in the necropolis, when i saw him, - alive,... walking, he called me anck- su-namun. and then in mister burns' quarters he tried to kiss me.
it is because it was you who read from the book. he has chosen you to be the human sacrifice needed to regenerate the body of anck-su-namun.
the hell with that! I am not goin' nowhere! we are safe here.
yeah, I am not leavin, this fort for nothin'.
where is your new friend?
what friend? you are my only friend.
then you got no excuse for living. what the hell you doin, being buddies with this creep, beni? what is in it for you?
it is better to be the right hand of the devil,... than in his path. as long as i serve him, i am immune.
immune from what?
you shall see.
what are you looking for? lie, and I will slit your throat.
the book! the black book they found at hamunaptra! imhotep wants it back. said to me it would be worth it is weight in diamonds.
what does he want the book for?
something about bringing his dead girly-friend back to life. he needs the book...  and your sister.
that looked rather painful.
ya know, ever since i met you, my luck has been for crap.
yes, i know, i do that to people.
damn-it! that is two down and only two to go.
and then he will be coming after evy.
the hell with this. I am goin, downstairs to get me a drink. you want somethin'?
yeah, get me a glass of bourbon, a shot of bourbon and a bourbon chaser.
you called me your girl?
what?... oh yeah, that was just um, you know, figure a speech.
i think you were jealous
jealous? you kiddin' me? did you see that guy's face?
believe it, sister. that is what brought our buddy back to life.
and now he is going to use it to bring his girlfriend back
I am thinking that if the black book of the dead can bring people back to life --
-- then perhaps, the golden book of the living can return them to the underworld.
exactly --
so your sayin', if we find the book made outta gold --
-- and read the sacred incantations contained inside it.
you think it will send this guy back to hell?
correct, and that is when --
got it!
got what?
what?
what?
which would be located not far to the east of the anubis statue.
do not tell me we got to go back out there?
if we want to kill the creature, yes.
do not do it, evelyn.
i have no choice.
got guts, lady.
yes, i know, and I would like to keep them.
we gotta get her back.
I am with you, old man. no one touches my sister like that and gets away with it.
you know where he is taking her?
yes. to hamunaptra. to perform the ritual.
and what ritual would that be?
the ritual to bring the body of anck- su-namun back to life.
and how does one do that?
by reading the book of the dead.
oh yes, of course.
and then killing your sister.
excuse me?
if he arrives before us, it will be too late.
did you say 'kill' my sister?
what just happened?
all i remember is him turning into a blast of sand,... and then i remember nothing.
okay, now what the hell does this horus guy look like?
he is a big fellow with pointy ears and a face like a falcon.
got it.
yeah?
oh yes, always.
...and how do you say? those slimy things, in your stomach?
intestines.
yeah! them.
who the hell are these guys?
priests. imhotep's priests.
i never killed a priest before.
they are evil, cursed, they matter not.
well, okay then.
i found it, evy! i found it
shut-up and get me off of here!
what do i do, evy!? what do i do!?
read the inscription on the cover!
do something, jonathan! kill it!
you have got to be joking?
finish the inscription, idiot!
oh.
ummm, hootash im... hootash im now what is this last symbol here?
what is it look like!?
ah! ah! ahmenophus!
yes,... i see.
