granger, this is combs.  why have not we heard from ya?  everybody else is in.
we had a few problems with the law this morning.  the mayor promised the jaycees to get tough on the rackets again, so he shut everybody down for a couple hours to make it look good.  nothing serious, it just put us a little behind for the day.
you been making your payoffs, have not ya?
hell yes.  he does this every year. there is nothing to worry about.
okay, finish your count and get it up here as soon as you can.  i do not wanta be here all night.
believe me, the man's going to be real happy.  looks like we cleared over ten grand this week.
we cleared 22 here.
well, hell, you got the whole chicago south side.  how do ya expect the eight lousy spots I have got to compete with that?
they did 14 grand in evanston, 16.5 is gary, and 20 in cicero.  looks like you are bringing up the rear, granger.
i just got the count.  we will put the take on the 4:15.
we will be waitin'.
the wallet.  you got to go after him. he is got all the money.
do not worry, we got the wallet. what happened?  he get ya with the knife?
give it to me!  please.  i got to know it is all there!
you just sit tight, old man.  we are going to have to get you to a doctor.  I will call a cop.
no, no cops!
you wanted by the law or somethin'?
naw, it is okay.
you are crazy carryin' that kinda money in this neighborhood.  no wonder you got hit.
thanks.  I am obliged to ya, but i got to get goin'.
you am not goin' nowhere on that leg.
i gotta!  look, i run some slots down in west bend for a mob here. i got a little behind on my payoffs so they figure i been holdin' out on 'em.  they gave me to 4:00 to come up with the cash.  i do not get it there I am dead.
it do not look good, gramps, it is ten of now.
i got a hundred bucks for you and your friend if you deliver the money for me.
i dunno.  that little mug that got ya is mad enough at me already -- what if he is out there waitin' around a corner with some friends.
he will not know you are carryin' it. c'mon, you got to help me out.
sorry, pal.  I will fix you up, call you a doc, but i am not going to walk into a bunch of knives for ya.
how bout you?  I will give you the whole hundred!
what makes you think you can trust him?  he did not do shit.
if that punk and his pals decide to search ya, you will never fool 'em carryin' it there.
what do we do?
you got a bag or somethin?
no.
how 'bout a handkerchief?
here.
jesus, what a bundle.  did you know he was that loaded?
hell no, i just cut into him.  i woulda settled for pawning one of them shoes.
hooker!
how ya doin', jimmy.
am not seen you in months, boy. thought maybe you took a fall.
naw, just a little hard times, that is all.  it is all over now.
you going to have a go here?  how 'bout a ten spot on the line here.  the 4-9 been lookin' good today.  lotsa action on 28th street down there, too.  pay ya 10-1.
you sure you wanna start off that big?  bet like that could put a real dent in us.
i feel lucky tonight.
aw, come on, hooker, why do not you just...
three grand on the black, jimmy.
doyle, can i see you a minute?
I am busy, floyd.
it is important.  we had a little trouble in chicago today.  one of our runners got hit for 12 grand.
which one?
mottola.
you sure he did not just pocket it?
no, we checked his story with a tipster.  he was cleaned by two grifters on 47th.
they workin' for anybody?
i do not know.  could be.  we are runnin' that down now.
all right, mark mottola up a little and put him on a bus.  nothin' fancy, just enough to keep him from coming back.  get some local people to take care of the other two.  we got to discourage this kinda thing.
hey, luther told me he was carrying a wad, but i did not figure this much.
which way did he do, eirie?
straight north.  he was gonna take it all and run.
the bastard.  he can blow his nose all the way.
you are late.  where you been?
i had some appointments.
how much did ya lose?
all of it.
in one goddamn night?  what are ya sprayin' money around like that for? you coulda been nailed.
i checked the place out.  there were not no dicks in there.
you are a con man, and you blew it like a pimp.  i did not teach ya to be no pimp.
what is eatin' you?  I have blown money before.
no class grifter woulda' done it, that is all.
you think my play is bad?
i think it is the best...
...it's the only reason i am not quit before now.
what?
I am gettin' too slow for this racket.  i done the best I am going to do.  you hang on too long, you start embarrassin' yourself.
what are you talkin' about?  we just took off the biggest score we have ever had.  we can do anything we want now.
it is nothin' compared to what you could be makin' on the big con. you are wastin' your time workin' street marks.
hey look.  you think I am going to run out on ya or somethin'?  just cause we hit it big.  luther, i owe you everything.  if you had not taught me con, i would not know nothin'.
aw hell, you sound like some goddamn sucker.  you know everything i know.  you got nothin' more to learn from me.
but you played the big con.  you said it was nothin'.  a game for flakes and mama's boys.
and I am tellin' ya now, you are a fool if you do not get into it.  a bigger fool than i was.  i been lookin' for this one all my life, johnny.  now i got a chance to step out at the top.
what the hell you gonna do with yourself?
aw, i got a brother down in k.c., runs a freight outlet.  i can go halfsies with 'em!  it am not too exciting, but it is mostly legal.
straighten up, kid.  i would not turn ya out if ya were not ready.  i got a guy named henry gondorff i want you to look up.  there am not a better insideman alive.  he will teach ya everything ya got to know.
you will take a cut of what i make, will not ya?
I am out, johnny.
if that is the way you want it.
that is the way i want it.
how do you like that coleman, huh? after three years.
aw come on, it was the only thing to do.  he knew he was holdin' ya back.
we were partners.  if it were not for luther I would still be hustlin' pinball down at gianelli's.  i do not need anything more than i got.
you am not going to have nothin' if you do not lay off them games of chance. there is a depression on ya know.
there is always a depression on.
if you saved a little, you would not have to grift so much.
i like griftin'.
you could buy yourself some things. clothes, or a nice car...
i do not look any good in clothes and i do not know how to drive. what else ya got to sell, eirie?
forget it.
hi there, snyder.  things a little slow down at the bunco department tonight, eh?  somebody lose the dominoes?
you scored blood money today, hooker.  you need a friend.
aw, find yourself a shoplifter to roll.
I will tell ya what you did, smart boy.  you tied into a loaded mark on 47th across from maxies.  you and coleman played the switch for him and blew him off to a cab on 49th.  if he had not been a numbers runner for doyle lonnegan, it woulda been perfect.
you are crazy.  I am not stupid enough to play for rackets money.
not intentionally maybe, but that do not make no difference to lonnegan. he will swat you like any fly.
I will square it with the fixer.
nobody can buy you a prayer, if i put the finger on ya.
my end was only one.
then you will have to come up with another grand somewhere.
i thought you blew all your money.
i did.  that stuff i gave him was counterfeit.  they will pinch him the first place he tries to spend it.
what the hell you going to do when snyder rushes his finger right to lonnegan?  you are committin' suicide, kid.
aw christ, it does not make no difference now.  if snyder knows about it so does everybody else. he never gets anything first...damn, there is no answer at luther's.
listen to me, hooker.  what ever you do, do not go back to your place tonight, do not go anyplace you usually go, ya hear me?  get outa town or somethin', but...
excuse me, sir.  treasury dept... I would like to ask you a few questions.
what for?  i have not done anything.
we do not doubt that, but there is a counterfeiting operation passing bad money in the station.  have you made any purchases here today?
yes, a ticket to chicago.
then I am afraid we will have to impound your money until we are sure that it is all good.  can i see your wallet and your ticket, please?
but i got a train to make.
it will only take 20 minutes or so. you can pick it up at the window down the hall.
but what about all these other people?
we will get 'em!  give us a chance. I am not the only agent in here, ya know.  we go around advertising ourselves, how many counterfeiters do you think we would catch, huh?  you think I am wearin' this rag here 'cause i like it?  christ, everybody thinks life's a holiday or somethin' when you got a badge.  i been here since three this morning, charlie, and i never knew there was so much ugliness in people.  you try to help 'em and they spit on you.  i shoulda let ya go and gotten yourself arrested for passin' false notes.
I am sorry, really i am, but my train leaves in ten minutes.
all right, I will give ya a break.  down that hall there, there is an unmarked door on the left.  go on in there and wait at the window. I will take this...  ...in the back and run it through right away.  we will have you outta there in a couple minutes.
thank you.  you do not know how much i appreciate this.
think nothin' of it.
turn the goddamn thing off, will ya.
you sober?
i can talk, can not i?
glad to meet ya, kid.  you are a real horse's ass.
yeh, luther said you could teach me something.  i already know how to drink.
I am sorry about luther.  he was the best street worker i ever saw.
he had you down as a big-timer. what happened?
aw, i conned a senator from florida on a stocks deal.  a real lop-ear. he thought he was gonna take over general electric.  some chantoozie woke him up, though, and he put the feds on me.
you mean you blew it.
luther did not tell me you had a big mouth.
he did not tell me you was a fuck- up, either.  you played the big con since then.
no, i lammed it around for a while while things cooled off.  philly, denver, baltimore, nuthin' towns.
you gonna stay for breakfast, or do you already know how to eat?
i picked something up on the way.
lonnegan after you, too?
i do not know.  have not seen anybody.
you never do, kid.
we got word from chicago.  they got one of the grifters last night. the nigger.
what about the other one?
they are still looking for him.
who is got the contract?
combs gave it to reilly and cole.
hackers.
they staked out the other guy's place last night, but he never showed.  they figure maybe he skipped town.  you wanna follow 'em up?
name's danny mccoy.  no neck mccoy we called him.  runs a few protection rackets for carnello while he is waiting for something bigger to come along.  me and danny been friends since we were six. take a good look at that face, floyd, cause if he ever finds out we let one lousy grifter beat us, you will have to kill him and every other hood in chicago who would like to do the same thing.  you understand what I am sayin'?
yes sir.
good lad.
gondorff, you gonna teach me the big con or not?
you did not act much like you wanted to learn it.
i wanna play for lonnegan.
you know anything about him?
yeh, he croaked luther.  what else do i gotta know.
aw right, he runs the numbers outta the south side.
and a packing company, a chain of savings and loans and half the politicians in chicago and new york. there am not a fix in the world going to cool him out if he blows on ya.
I will take him anyway.
why?
'cause i do not know enough about killin' to kill him.
you can not do it alone, ya know.  it takes a mob of guys like you and enough money to make 'em look good.
we will get by without 'em.
this is not like playin' winos on the street.  you got to do more than outrun the guy.
i never played for winos.
you got to keep lonnegan's con, even after you spent his money.  and no matter how much you take from his, he will get more.
you are sacred of 'em, are not ya?
right down to my socks, turkey.  if i'da been half as scared a that lop-ear, i would not a fallen asleep on 'em.  lonnegan might kill me, but at least he will not bore me to death.
then you will do it?
if i can find a mob that will risk it. but no matter what happens, i do not want you comin' back to me halfway through and sayin' it is not enough... cause it is all you got.
you sure it will be one of these two?
no.  they are just the only ones we know of.
you the owner here?
that is right.
lieutenant snyder.  bunco.
joliet badge, snyder.  do not cut much up here.
I am lookin' for a guy on the lam from a counterfeiting rap.  thought he mighta come in here.
do not think so.  i know everybody in the place and i always bounce the lamsters.
all right if i look around your lobby?
no, but you are welcome to a free beer before you go.
lonnegan's a fast egg, henry.  he is not going to sit still for a standard play.
everybody'll sit still for somethin'. what did ya find out about the train, eddie?
he is been taking the 8:10 century limited outa new york on friday and getting in here early saturday morning.  he usually stays a day to check on his policy operations, and then flies back.
wonder why he does not fly both ways.
the porters say he runs a braced card game in one of the cars.  $100 minimum, straight poker.  last time he pulled in here ten grand heavier than he left new york.
fancies himself a gambler, huh?
which way are the rooms?
who told ya this guy was in here?
nobody.  i just know what kinda women he likes.  I am going to check all the joyhouses till i find him.
maybe i could help ya if ya told me his name.
i think I will keep that to myself. which way are the rooms?
right through there.  but i would not go in there if i were you.
what are ya gonna do, call the cops?
i do not have to.  you will be bustin' in on the chief of police just up the hall.
we will use the wire.  never known a gambler who would not like to beat the ponies.
the wire is ten years outa date.
that is why he will not know it.
I am not sure i know it.
we will give him the hook on the train, and play him here.  you think i can get in that poker game, eddie?
all you gotta do is show up with some money and look like a fool.
i also gotta win.
looks all right.  it is big enough and off the street.
i do not know.  this is kinda short notice.  I am not sure we can get it all done by saturday.
got to.  gondorff's ridin' the mark in from new york on the century.
we will take it.  you manage the building at the end of the alley?
for fifteen years.
I will need a room over there that faces this way.  how much a week?
only rents by the month.  two hundred and fifty for the two of them.
this is the last time i expect to see you down here.
never heard of the place.
been a while since i stocked a wire store.  not many mobs playing that anymore.
all we need is the bookie setup for now.  we will worry about the telegraph office later.
all right, I will rent ya everything i got in the warehouse for two grand.  that will give ya phones, cages, blackboards and ticker gear. you supply the guys to move 'em. if you want a counter and bar, that is another grand.  i do not know where the hell I am going to get 'em though.
c'mon, you can do better than that. we am not no heel grifters.
you want the stuff tomorrow or do not ya?  it is going to take hours just to clean it up.  besides, gondorff's still a hot item.  where am i going to be if he gets hit?
just give us what ya can, benny. we will send a truck down.
he is not as tough as he would like to think.
neither are we.
twist!  when did you get back in town?
coupla days ago.  I am workin' a big one with gondorff on the north side.
listen duke, we are setting up a wire store.  i need a twenty man boost right away.
i got twenty or so in here tonight. take your pick.
these guys have got to be the quill, duky.  we can not afford to rank the joint.
get me the sheet, jake.  let's see who is in town.
twist, you know this guy?
no.  never saw him before.  he is a dick, though.
paltrow, sterling, furey, and the big alabama are in from new orleans. fiskin and the boone kid from denver, and phillips, barnett and limehouse chappie from new york. those and the guys outside should give ya 30 or so to choose from.
good, have 'em down at stenner's old pool hall before 3:00.  we are going to run through the route tonight.
okay, twist, but you know if this blows up, i can not do ya no good downtown.  gondorff is federal.
do not worry about it, pal.
you in?
yeh, i think so.  i gave the kay- ducer a c-note.  you find out the deck?
he usually plays with a royal or a cadenza.  i got you one of each.  he likes to cold deck low, 8's or 9's.
nice work, j.j.
he is waitin' for you in the card room.
let him wait.
you just worry about your end, kid.
if we ever get to it.
yeh, that would be real nice of ya, mr. lonneman.
lonnegan.
raise 500.
see ya and raise three.
see and raise five.
five and call.
we bought ya a tap into moe anenberg's wire.  he is got eyes at every track in the country.  you will get race results, odds, scratches, pole positions, everything; and just as fast as western union gets 'em.
does j.j. know how to use this thing?
all he is got to do is read.
buck duff.  i was in maxwell's boost in troy.
you the duff that did not come up with his end when little jeff was sent up?
was not no problem a mine.
he was a con man, was not he?
he was a tear-off rat.  he got what he deserved.  no sense helpin' pay his bills.
shove off, duff.
raise 300.
pass.
I have had it with that bum, floyd. stack me a cooler.
you have only been playin three hours, doyle.
i do not care.  load me a deck.  set it up for threes and nines.  I will cut it in on his deal.
what do ya want the others to get?
nothin'.  they got to be outa there early.  I am going to bust that bastard in one play.
raise 1,000.
raise 500.
see and raise 1,000.
raise 5,000.
i guess i left it in my room.
what!  do not give me that crap you little weenie.  how do i know you am not going to take a powder.  you come to a game like this, you bring your money.
how did ya do?
well we got some workin' money anyway.
i know i give him four threes.  we can not let him get away with that.
what am i supposed to do?  call him for cheating better than me?
your boss is quite a card player, carver.  how does he do it?
he cheats.
he will have to take a check.  i could not find my wallet.
yeh, he knows that.
what do you mean?
he hired a dame to take it from ya.
you were set up, lonnegan.  shaw's been planning to beat your game for months.  he was just waiting for you to cheat him so he could clip ya.
i could have you put under this train for this, errand boy.
so could shaw.
then why the rat?
cause I am tired of bein' his nigger.  i want you to help me break him.
what is the matter?  you got to get back to shaw?
naw, he picked up some jane in the bar.  can not see him till morning anyway.
all right, then.
why me?  shaw probably has lotsa enemies to choose from.
i need somebody respectable...but not completely legit.  what I am going to do is not very legal.
I am a banker, friend.  that is legit in this state.
all you got to do is place a bet for me at shaw's place.  I will supply all the money and the information.
if you help me out, I will pay ya back the money you owe shaw, myself.
that is worth fifteen grand to ya?
maybe a couple million.
you are dreamin', kid.
660 marshall street.  tomorrow at 12:30, if you are interested.
if I am not there by quarter of, I am not coming.
everything go all right?
yeh, it was easy.
no signs of trouble?
what do ya mean?
you know, somebody tailin' ya.  a torpedo or somethin'.
no, not a thing.
how 'bout lonnegan?
i gave him the breakdown just like ya told me to.
and?
he threatened to kill me.
hell, they do not do that and you know you are not gettin' through to 'em.
then he drove me home.  he tried to put himself away as legit, so i went right into the pitch.
did he hold you up on anything?
you think he will show?
did he say he wouldn't?
no.
he will show.
you should always look to the back too, kid.
i was afraid you were not going to come. we have not got much time.
get on with it then.
sometime after 1:00 a guy's going to call here and give you the name of a horse.  all you do is take this two grand across the street to shaw's place and bet it on that pony.  there is nothin' to it, but do not take too much time.  we only have 3 or 4 minutes after you get the call.
you are not going to break him with a $2,000 bet.
this is just a test.  the big one comes later.  be careful with that though, it is all i got.
and you were gonna pay me back?
i am after this race.
look at that.  he is got four apes with him.
that is what i like about these guys, j.j... they always got protection against things we would never do to 'em.
never get enough, huh pal?  I would think you would get tired of losin', honnigan.
the name is lonnegan.
make sure you see cash from this guy, eddie.  he is got the name for bettin' money he do not have.
you really picked a winner, kid.
give 'em a little time.
all right, riley.  what the hell happened?
we missed him.
you were not hired to miss him.
there was not any way he coulda known we was in there.  we made a clean pick on the lock and did not leave no footprints in the hall. somebody musta wised him up.
yeh, and what does cole say about that?
i do not know.  he took it hard.
all right, get outa here.  you are outta work.
we will put salino on it.  i need somebody careful.
salino?  why waste our best people on a small-time job like this?  it am not no heavy gee we are after. the guy's a five and dime grifter.
then why am not he dead?
they did not think he would be so cagey, that is all.  they will get him next time.
use salino.  it will take a little longer, but there will not be any holes in it.
and tell cole i wanta see him when he gets in.
he is not comin' in.  not to get bounced off a job anyway.
he had his chance and all he did was shoot up a rooming house.  made a lotte noise and woke up a few cops, but did not hit nothin'.
well, what did i tell ya?
you are a lucky man, all right.
lucky, hell.  i could do it every day.
why do not ya then.
'cause it is better to do it all at once.  we are puttin' down 400 grand next week.  at 5-1 we make 2 million. twenty per cent of that is yours if ya stick with us.
you got a system, carver?
you stayin' in or not?
I am in.
it is foolproof.  we got a partner downtown runs the central office of the western union.  race results from all over the country come in there and go right across his desk on their way to the bookies.  all he does in hold them up a couple minutes until he can call us and get a bet down on the winner.  then he releases the results to the bookies and we clean up on a race that is already been run.  it can not miss, unless the western union dicks get onto it.
you got the 400 grand yet?
not yet, but...  hey, there is only a grand here.
i think we oughta place another bet tomorrow.
what is this?  that is my money. you tryin' to muscle me?
if your system's as foolproof as you say, you will get even more.
i got to talk to me partner first. we can not afford to expose our game too much.
let me talk to him.
no.
you want your money back?  try and get it in a court of law.  c'mon, do not be a sorehead.  I will make it worth your while.  migth even help ya finance the big play if this one works out.
twist?  i told him the tale.  he wants to see ya.
all right, when?
tomorrow, after 4:00.  stay inside, I will come in and get ya.  and be hard on him for a while; he is talking money.
okay, tootsie.
why did not you tell me about snyder before?
i thought I would lost him.
well you found him again and we are going to have to do somethin' about it. what else have not ya been tellin' me?
nothin'.  i told ya everything there is.
then why did ya move outa your room?
it was too noisy.
you can not play your friends like marks, hooker.
you know how easy it would be for one of lonnegan's guys to nail you?
all we need is a couple days, henry. a couple days and we will get lonnegan down and stomp on 'em.
you just will not learn, will ya. hell, you come in here, i teach you stuff maybe five guys in this world know, stuff most grifters could not do even if they knew it, and all you wanna do is run down a bullet.  you are just like all them new jerks. lotsa nerve and no brains.  and ten years from now when me and the others are through and you dumb guys are all dead there will not be one gee left who knows the big con was anything more than a way to make a livin'.
a couple days; that is all I am askin'.  i can stay clear that long.
christ, they will probably miss you and hit me.
you done?
yeh, i guess i shoulda had the meat loaf.
it is not any better.
where is june today?
she do not work here no more.  I am fillin' in for a couple days... till i can get a train outa here.
where you goin'?
i do not know.  depends what train i get on.
what happened to your face?
had a little fight with a raggle down on 13th.  she got me with her ring.
les, i got mr. lonnegan with me. he wants to see you a second.
what the hell's the matter with you. we coulda met at a club or somethin'.
i thought it might be good for him to see the setup.
well we can not talk in here.  they are having the place painted.
can not do it.  there are telegraph inspectors all over the place.  i got 750 grand coming in from the coast, and I am not going to blow it for a lousy 14 gees.  we will get somebody else to do our betting.
i could come up with 750 grand in a day if i had a reason to.
but who says you will.  i got a guy i can depend on.  he is liquidating everything he has for this.  you would not even give carver his money back.
i need more proof, that is all. anybody can get lucky once.
on a 6-1 shot?  the hell with ya. we will keep the deal we got.
if it works again tomorrow, I will have a half million in cash here by noon the next day.  we split 60-40.
we were getting 50 from our guy.
with 20% coming off the top for me laying your bet.  either way you end up with 40.
a week's a long time, friend. anything can happen.  all of it bad.
he is right, les.
yeh, and what if we play tomorrow and he does not come up with the money.  we risk our whole operation for nothing.  I will say when we make our bets.
not if you want me to keep makin' 'em for ya.
what is this?  i got work to do.
sit down and shut up, will ya.  try not to live up to all my expectations.  we were told you know a hustle artist named johnny hooker.
do ya know him or do not ya?
yeh, but i do not know where he is.
well we do.  he is chummin' around with a big c named henry gondorff. ring any bells?
sure.  every bunco man in the country knows gondorff.
there is word he is going to run a con on the north side here.  we got a year-old florida warrant on him, but it is a thin beef, and he can beat it in court unless we catch him cold.  all we want you to do is pick up hooker for us.
why do not you pick him up yourself?
cause the stoolies are used to street dicks jumpin' him.  if word gets around that feds are in on it too, gondorff'll fold up the whole thing.
would not that be too bad.  you would hafta move outa this nice office ya got.
do not crack wise to me, flatfoot. i spent a lotta time in dumps like this, eatin' gondorff's dust while the bunco squad gets rich tippin' him off.  but it is not going to happen this time.  we are not even going to let the police know we are here.  if you keep your mouth shut and do a job, there'll be a promotion in it for ya.  and you better take it, cause i can make ya work for us without it.
what the hell good is hooker to ya?
he is going to set up gondorff for us.
he will never do it.
i think he will.
visitation is still up by two at the three-quarters.  single action second, fasanella third.
what is the line on visitation?
7 to 2.  that am not bad.
he will probably fall down.
how ya doin'?
nothin' yet.  i got a good one on the lead at hialeah, but he is fadin'.
best we had was cat's eye in the second at del mar, and he was only 5-2.  not many longshots comin' in today.
billie.  you ready?
yeh, go ahead.
at the finish, it is single action by two, fasanella second, visitation third.  line on single action... 3 to 2. hell with it, that is no good.
he is going to hit ya with 20 grand, eddie.  how much cash we got?
not enough to cover a bet that big.
get a couple extra guys in the line, then.  we will give him the shut-out.
what happened?
i did not get the bet down in time.
oh, jesus.
looks like he is sulking.
if we are lucky, this'll bring him back stronger than ever.
tell your friend I will have the money here by post-time tomorrow. we will take the first race where the odds are 4-1 or better.  and make sure i can get to that window this time.
how am i gonna do that?
i do not know, figure something out.
meat loaf, apple pie and a cup of coffee.
sixty-five.
what time you get off work here?
2:00 a.m.
you doin' anything tonight?
yeh, sleepin'.
you got a back door to this place?
no.  what is wrong with the front?
look, i do not have time to fuck around.  there is somebody out there i do not need to see.  you got a fire escape or anything?
no.
all right, do me a favor.  go into the bathroom, open the window and wait for me there.
what the hell for?
just do what i tell ya and everything'll be jake.
what does this guy want?
he would like to kill me.
you want a drink or something?
no.
we want to talk to ya about henry gondorff.
do not think i know him.
well give yourself a couple seconds, crumb.  you would not wanna lie to me.  lt. snyder here says you done a lotta griftin' in this town.
lt. snyder does not know shit.
you got nothin' on me.
we will get it, and if we can't, we will just make it up.  grand larceny, extortion.  counterfeiting, anything you want.
look, i got nothin' against you, but you are in trouble here.  all you got to do is tell us when gondorff's going to play his chump. we come in at the sting, make the pinch, and you walk out free as a bird.  no questions, no court appearance, nothing.
no.
you have already done time twice, and judges do not like three time losers. you wanna sit in the can for forty years, startin' tonight?
I will make parole.
like hell.  you will not even get a review till you are seventy.  and if the board starts to go soft, we will let ya out in the yard some night with a hard-nose young bull who will put fifty slugs in your face and ask what you were doin' there later.
will you wait until the chump is played?
hell yes.  we do not care about the mark.  he deserves what he gets.
i mean completely played.  until he is beat and the score is taken. you come in before we beat him and I will kill him.  you will have a tough time explaining that, will not ya.
all right, hooker, but you take it on the lam, and we will shoot you down on sight.
just as long as i get to finish the play.
what is the matter, kid?  you are not sayin' much.
just a little nervous, that is all.
luther always told me to bite my toenails when i get nervous.  you see yourself doin' that and you realize it am not worth it.
take it easy, you will not lose him now.  we had him 10 years ago when he decided to be somebody.  believe me, I have seen enough to know.
how many guys you conned in your life, henry?
two or three hundred i guess. sometimes played two a day when i was in shea's mob.  we had it down to a business.  'course chicago was a right town then.  the fix was in.  the dicks took their end without a beef.  all the wall street boys wanted to make investments for us.  even had marks looking us up, thinkin' they could beat the game.  yeh, kid, it really stunk.  no sense in bein' a grifter if it is the same as bein' a citizen.
i better do some packin'.  I am going to be a hot number again after tomorrow.
then why you doin' it?
seems worthwhile, does not it? maybe it is just for the cave-in on lonnegan's face when we put in the sting.
henry.
yeh.
i appreciate your stickin' your neck out.  i would not have asked ya if it were not for luther.
am not nothin' going to make up for luther, kid.  revenge is for suckers.  i been griftin' 30 years and never got any.
looks like he missed ya.
yeh, this time anyway.
i, ah...thought you might wanna come out for a while.  maybe have a drink or somethin'.
you move right along, do not ya.
i do not mean nothin' by it.  i just do not know many regular girls, that is all.
and you expect me to come over, just like that.
if i expected somethin', i would not be still standin' out here in the hall.
i do not even know you.
you know me.  I am just like you... it is two in the morning and i do not know nobody.
she coulda killed me last night.
too many people coulda seen ya go in her room.  she was a professional. used to work in the dutch schultz gang.
who are you?
gondorff asked me to look after ya.
how do i know you are tellin' the truth.
do not have much choice, do ya?
what is the problem?
he wants to put a half million on syphon.
i can not lay that off in time.  we lose a bet that big, it could break us.
if ya win it could make ya, too.
what are the odds on syphon?
a half mill on an eight to one shot. you are dumber than i thought, lonnegan.
you are more gutless than i thought.
take it easy.  everything's all right.  i put it on syphon, on the nose.
on the nose!  i said place.  place it on syphon.  that horse is going to run second.
you beat him, kid.
you were right, henry.  it is not enough... but it is close.
you wanta wait for your share?
naw, I would just blow it.
