...personally i think the unconquered south face is the only one worth scaling...of course it is a 20,000 foot sheer wall of ice but then when did that ever stop me before?...naturally, i intend to make the ascent without the benefit of oxygen but also without crampons or even an ice pick...<i>risks?</i>...  ...sure I am aware of the risks--why else do you think i would spend seven years as an adjuster in a life insurance company...?
truman, you are going to be late!
what is that?
it is a surprise.
well, what do you think?
they're...  perfect.  thank you.
how is it going, truman?
not bad.  i just won the state lottery.
good.  good.
tyrone, what if i said i did not want meatball today?
I would ask for identification.
see you tomorrow, truman.
you can count on it.
hi, honey.  look at this.  it is a "chef's-mate."  dicer, slicer and peeler in one.  never needs sharpening. dishwasher safe.
gee, that is great.
how did it go today?
a man tripped and fell on a chainsaw.  we got three of his fingers back on.
i was hoping we could have a special evening.
i will not be late.
did something happen today?
I am thinking of getting out, marlon.
yeah?  outta what?
outta my job, outta seahaven, off this island...<i>out!</i>
see here, this is us.  all the way round here, fiji.  you can not get any further away before you start coming back.  y'know, there are still islands in fiji where no human has ever set foot.
so when are you leaving?
it is not that simple.  takes money, planning.  you can not just up and go.  oh, I am going to do it, do not worry about that.  I have just got to move slow.  pick my moment.  bonus time's just around the corner.  soon as i finish the...
nursery?
<i>spare room</i> - i can start thinking about selling up...and I will be gone.  up and away on that big steel bird.  I am going, do not you worry about that.
truman, you know, i did think about moving away one time.
yeah, what happened?
i figured, what is the point?  i knew I would just be taking my problems with me.  once the kids came along, it made me look at seahaven with new eyes.  i realized, what the hell could be better than this?  I am telling you.  what you really need is someone to carry on the "burbank" name.
you think so?
trust me.
you really think it could have dropped off an airliner?
sure.  it is halogen.  shame it did not hit you - you could have sued.  you coming for a drink?
i can not tonight.
where have you been?
I have been thinking--
oh, god.
--i figure we could scrape together eight thousand.
every time you and marlon--
--we could bum around the world for a year on that.
and then what, truman?  we would be back to where we were five years ago.  you are talking like a teenager.
maybe i feel like a teenager.
we are mortgaged to the eyeballs, truman. there is the car payments.  are we just going to walk away from our financial obligations?
it would be an adventure.
i thought we were going to try for a baby.  is not that enough of an adventure?
that can wait.  i want to get away.  see some of the world.  explore.
this'll pass.  everybody thinks like this now and then.  come to bed.
i think I am going to stay up for a while.
how can they have a child?
it is not going to be his, you idiot.
why not?
you think she would go through with it?
sure she would.
guess i always thought they would adopt.
how are you, mother?
well, i made it through another night.
how is your hip?
oh, just so.
you know surprises are not good for me. you should really call before you come over, dear.
I have got something to tell you.  you would better sit down.
you look very pale, truman.  are you taking your vitamin d's?
i spend half my life out in the sun, mother, why would i need vitamin d?
i feel certain my condition runs in the family.  can not this wait, dear?
it does not sound insane, truman.  i swear i see him ten times a week--in a hundred faces.  i almost hugged a perfect stranger in the salon last thursday.
it was dad, i swear, dressed like a homeless man.  and you know what else was really strange?  a businessman and a woman with a little dog appeared from nowhere and forced him onto a bus.
about time they started cleaning up the trash downtown.  we do not want to end up like the rest of the country.
they never found dad's body--maybe somehow--
--darling--
I am telling you, if it was not him, it was his twin.  did dad have a brother?
you know he was an only child, like you.  i know how bad you feel about what happened--sailing into that storm.  but i do not blame you, truman.  i never have.
what are you doing down here?
fixing the mower.  i saw my father today.
i know.
how do you know?
your mother called.  you should not upset her like that.
what did you want?
i made macaroni.
I am not hungry.
what is he doing?
they removed all physical trace of her but they could not erase the memory.
the memory of who?
shhh!
come on, truman.  have not you studied enough?
i still want to look over a couple of things.
you take japanese.
oh, yes.
lauren, right?
that is right.  lauren.
I am truman, truman burbank--
--i'm not allowed to talk to you.
it is okay.  i probably would not talk to me either.
I am sorry.  it is not up to me.
you have a boyfriend?  of course you do.
no...i, er.
no?  really?  good, i mean, i thought possibly a pizza.  how about friday?
no.
saturday?
actually, I am free sunday.
now.
right now?  we have got finals tomorrow.
if we do not go now, it will not happen.
well, what do you want to do?
i think I have studied enough.
it is beautiful!  what are you waiting for?
i...i can't.
they are coming.  any minute.
who?
they are going to stop me talking to you.
there is no one here.
just listen.  you remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like magellan--
--how do you know about that?
--and your teacher said, "you're too late, truman.  there is nothing left to explore."
were you there--how do you know?
--it does not matter.  everybody knows about it.  they know everything you do. the point is, you got scared.
i do not understand.
you must listen.  everybody's pretending, truman.
but why did not he just follow her to fiji?
because his mother got sick - very sick.  he could not leave her.  he is a kind boy, maybe too kind.
i can not believe he married meryl on the rebound.
marlon--
--truman, what are you doing here?
I have got to talk to you.
sorry, I am way behind.
I am onto something, marlon - something big.
are you okay?  you look like shit.
i think I am mixed up in something.
<i>mixed up?</i>  mixed up in what?
there is no point in trying to explain it, but a lot of strange things have been happening - elevators that do not go anywhere, people talking about me on the radio, you know what i mean?
no.  truman, if this is another one of your fantasies...
i think it is got something to do with my dad.
your dad?!
i think he is alive.  I will tell you about it later.  I am definitely being followed.
who?
it is hard to tell.  they look just like regular people.
how about them?
could be.  beard looks phony.  it is when I am unpredictable.  they can not stand that.  that is why we have got to get out of here.  can you come with me?
i told you i can't.
I have got to show you something.
what are we doing here, truman?
this is where it started.
what exactly?
things.  things that does not fit.  maybe I am being set up for something. you ever feel like that, marlon?  like your whole life has been building to something?
no.
when you were hauling chickens for kaiser poultry, what was the furthest you ever went off the island?
i went all over but i never found a place like this.  look at that sunset, truman.  it is perfect.
yeah...
that is the "big guy".  quite a paintbrush he is got.
just between you and me, marlon, I am going away for a while.
really?
we ought to be getting you back, mother.
hold on a minute, dear.  here's us at mount rushmore.  you remember, truman--when dad was still with us - that was quite a drive.  you slept all the way there.
it looks so small.
things always do--when you look back.
I will take you home, angela.  why do not you leave those with us for a while?
good night, mother.
see you in a minute, sweetheart.
i have to talk with you.  but not here.  let's go for a walk.
I am sorry, I am late.
what is the hurry?
surgery.  the elevator disaster downtown on the news last night.  cable snapped, a car dropped ten floors.  non-union contractors.  monsters.  we are starting with an amputation.
arrah!
oh, my god!
what do i do?
i do not know--
--you're a nurse, are not you?
put some butter on it--or ice?
I am looking for my wife--nurse burbank. it is important.
I am afraid that is impossible--she's in pre-op.
sure.  okay.  fine.  can you pass on a message?
I will try.
tell her, tell her...i had to go to fiji. I will call her when i get there.
when you get to fiji?
you got it.
fine.  I will tell her.
I am sorry to keep you.  how can i help?
i want to book a flight to fiji.
where exactly?
<i>fiji.</i>
<i>where</i> in fiji?  what island?
I am sorry, er...the biggest one.
viti levu.  for how many?
one.
when do you want to leave, remembering, of course, you do lose a day on the way there?
today.
I am sorry.  i do not have anything for at least a month.
<i>a month.</i>
it is the busy season.
you are a travel agent, are not you?  "doris"?  your job is to help people travel.
i do have a fabulous rate on a cruise ship departing for fiji tomorrow.  but you would not want to do that.
why would not i?
i thought you were in a hurry.
that is right.
you want to book the flight?
it does not matter.  I will make other arrangements.
i invited marlon and rita for a barbeque sunday.  i thought I would make my potato salad.  remind me--
i will not be here sunday.
--we need more charcoal.
are you listening to a word I am saying?
you are upset because you want to go to fiji.  is that it?
let's go now.
what?!
where shall we go?  where shall we go? spontaneity is what it is all about. forget fiji.  we can not very well drive to fiji, can we?  what about atlantic city?
you hate gambling.
that is right.  i do, do not i?
so why do you want to go?
because i never have.  that is why you go places, is not it?
truman, i think I am going to throw up.
blocked at every turn.  beautifully synchronized, do not you agree?
you blaming me for the traffic?
should i?
truman, that was our house!
I have changed my mind again.  what is new orleans like this time of year?  mardi gras.  or let's just see where the road takes us.
let me out, truman.  you are not right in the head.  you want to destroy yourself, you do it on your own!
i think I would like a little company.
it is hard to go places, is not it?
there is been an accident, truman.
uhuh.  there is no accident.  it is just more stalling.
truman, i took the "hypocrite" oath!
i bet you did.
truman, what about that sign?
I am sure they are just exaggerating.
so what do we do for money when we get to new orleans?
I have got my seahaven bankcard.
so we just eat into our savings, is that the idea?  I would better call your mother when we get there.  she will be worried sick - i do not know how she is going to take this.
now what?
leak at the plant.  they had to shut her down.
is there any way around?
the whole area's being evacuated.
well, thank you for your help.
you are welcome, truman.
let me get you some help, truman.  you are not well.
why do you want to have a child with me? you can not stand me.
that is not true.
why do not i make you some of this new mococoa drink?  all natural.  cocoa beans from the upper slopes of mount nicaragua. no artificial sweeteners--
--what the hell are you talking about?!
I have tasted other cocoas.  this is the best.
what the hell has that got to do with anything?  tell me what is happening?!
you are having a nervous breakdown, that is what is happening.
you are part of this, are not you?!
stop this now.  I will do it.  i swear.
do something...
who were you talking to?!
you are the one talking to the walls!
no.  you said, "do something."  who were you talking to?  tell me!
truman, stop it!
stay where you are!
truman?  it is me, marlon.  i need to talk to you.
i do not know what to think, marlon. maybe I am going out of my mind, but i get the feeling that the world revolves around me somehow.
it is a lot of world for one man.  you sure that is not wishful thinking, you wishing you would made something more of yourself? christ, truman, who has not sat on the john and had an imaginary interview on "seahaven tonight"?  who has not wanted to be somebody?
this is different.  everybody seems to be in on it.
and the last thing I would ever do is lie to you.  think about it, truman, if everybody's in on it, I would have to be in on it too. I am not in on it, because there is no <i>it.</i>
so what are you saying, marlon, the whole thing has been in my head--?
not the whole thing, truman.  you were right about one thing.
what is that?
the thing that started all of this.
close up?
no, hold back...
welcome.
thank you.
the catalyst for the recent dramatic events was of course truman's father, kirk, and his infiltration onto the show. before we discuss that, it is worth reminding viewers that this is not the first time someone from the outside world has tried to reach truman.
we <i>have</i> had our close calls in the past.
of course, there has not been anything to compare with this - the first time an intruder has been a former cast member--
--a dead one at that.
--and certainly the first time that an intruder has been rewarded with a starring role.  i really must congratulate you on writing kirk back in.  a master stroke.
since kirk started this whole crisis in truman's life, i came to the conclusion that he was the only one who could end it.
i understand he is hardly had a life of his own since he left the show.  how did you convince him--was it the opportunity to be close to truman again?
that and a fat, new contract.
how <i>do</i> you intend to explain his twenty- two year absence?
amnesia.
of course.
let's talk ratings.  "truman" has always enjoyed top ten status but the huge surge over the last few days--how do you hope to sustain that audience now that truman appears to have reconciled himself?
as you know ratings have never been our primary goal.  i imagine we will lose those voyeurs only interested in witnessing truman's latest torment.  however, I am certain that our core audience will remain loyal.
but recent events have been so dramatic, it does raise the perennial question. what keeps us watching this one man twenty-four hours a day - eating, sleeping, working, sitting for hours in contemplation?
it has to be the reality.
we have become tired of watching actors give us phony emotions, bored with pyrotechnics and special effects.  while the world he inhabits is counterfeit, there is nothing fake about truman himself.  no scripts, no cue cards.  it is not always shakespeare but it is genuine.  that is how he can support an entire channel.
a window onto the human condition?
i prefer to think of it as a mirror.
not only does he give us a glimpse of the truth, he gives us a glimpse of ourselves.
but how do you account for the popularity of those eight hours a day when truman sleeps?
we find many viewers leave him on all night for comfort.  have not you ever watched your child or your lover sleep?
let's go to some of those viewers' calls.
are we talking emmies?
certainly a nomination.
of course, truman has always been very much in on casting.
as with our own lives, the only people he can not cast are his family.  otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit player.
istanbul, turkey, you are on with master videographer, christof.
we should remind viewers that truman, especially as a child, presented a challenge for the production.
let me demonstrate some examples.
he was curious from birth - premature by two weeks, as if he could not wait to get started.
of course, his eagerness to leave his mother's womb also meant he was the one selected.
in competition with five other unwanted pregnancies - the casting of a show determined by an air date - he was the one who arrived on cue.
who knew that a show originally meant to last one year - "bringing up baby" - would turn into a "cradle to grave" concept.  he is in fact the first child in the world to be legally adopted by a corporation.
that is correct.
and the show now generates a yearly income equivalent to the gross national product of a small country.
people forget it takes the <i>population</i> of an entire country to keep the show running.
no, of course not.  and since the show runs 24 hours a day with no commercial breaks the staggering profits are all generated from product placement.
yes, everything you see on the show is for sale - from the actors' wardrobe, food products, to the very homes they live in--
all products carefully chosen and tested by you for quality and aesthetic value.
there is nothing on the show i do not use myself.
and it is all available in the "truman" show" catalogue.  operators are standing by.
why do you feel that truman's never come close to discovering the true nature of his world?
we accept the reality of the world with which we are presented.  as the show expanded, naturally we were forced to manufacture ways to keep truman in seahaven - demonstrating that every venture is accompanied by a risk.
you have never actually met truman, yourself.  never thought about doing a cameo--playing a veterinarian, or a priest, something like that?
I have been tempted.  but i think it is important to retain objectivity.  i would not want to get emotionally caught up.
the hague for christof...the hague?...lost them.  hollywood, california, you are on "tru talk."
we have learnt about life as truman has and, despite the complaints of a minority, it is been an overwhelmingly positive experience, for truman and for the viewing public.
let's take another call.  london, england, you are on "tru talk."
--what are my plans now?  well, next I am thinking of tackling the yuba river in an authentic canoe from the algonquin tribe. --i'm talking about the north fork, a class five rapid - only I am not going <i>down</i> the yuba, I am going <i>up.</i>  do you honestly think for one minute I would go back to some dreary office to rubber stamp meaningless documents...do you?
--truman, you are going to be late!
why is he in the basement?
he moved down there after meryl packed up and left.
why was not i told?  any unpredictable behavior has to be reported.  is that the best shot we can get?
what is to see?
what is on the clockcam?
what happened down there?
he was tidying up his garbage.  i was going to call you.  but half-way through, he gave up and fell asleep.
give me a shot from truman's ring.
he gave it back to his father.
we have declared a curfew.  everyone else is at first positions.
all prop cars accounted for?
he has to be on foot.  he has the world's most recognizable face.  he can not disappear.
I am sure we will get him on this next sweep.
what have we missed?
it is just a matter of time.
we are not watching the sea.
why would we--
sweep the harbor.
cue music...
what music?
<i>storm</i> music...wagner...
he does not care.
do it!
who are you?
I am the creator.
the creator of what?
a show - that gives hope and joy and inspiration to millions.
<i>a show.</i>  then who am i?
you are the star.
nothing was real.
<i>you</i> were real.  that is what made you you so good to watch.
i have a map.
truman, I have watched you your whole life. i saw you take your first step, your first word, your first kiss.  i know you better than you know yourself.  you are not going to walk out that door--
--you never had a camera in my head.
