now, dave old buddy, you know you are exaggerating -  what do you think of this husband of yours?  on most boats a certain loyalty exists between the exec and his navigation and firing officer.  but unfortunately, in the case of lieutenant dave milburn of the tiger shark and myself -
but julie's a nice girl, and I have seen you work.  she deserves a fighting chance!
helen.  i appeal to you -
reef!
so they caught up with you, too?
at the worst possible moment. tomorrow is janie's birthday. poor little kid has looked forward for two months to having her daddy home.  now -
that's the worst possible moment?
what could be worse than disappoint- ing a little girl?
disappointing a big girl!
thought you were going to washington, skipper.
i did go.  just back.  reef, these are a couple of our passengers - sir ian hunt, and dr. clifford kent.  my exec, commander richard holloway.
i met dr. kent, once.
my yeoman will show you to your quarters.
thank you.
I am - afraid i have some bad news for you, reef -  you will have to share quarters, this trip.
who with?
dr. neilsen.  he will be - -
'doctor' neilsen?  when did that happen?
huh?
it will be all right.  we are old friends!
get ready.  we shove off as soon as griff reports all the crew aboard.
right, skipper.
i should have suspectcd, when i heard that 'doctor.'  i thought it was your father.
it was supposed to be.  dad had a heart attack, two days ago.
how is he - ?
it was moderate.  he will be all right.  but it was out of the question, his coming along.
and they thought you could re- place the skipper?
you could train someone else.
not in two days.  look:  do you think i wanted to come?  if it did not mean so much to dad - proving his depth-explorer - it is the last thing I would want!
what do you think?
i think i should have joined the air force!
you have asked why i stay a bachelor? there goes the best reason i know!
huh?
i might have a son like that!
i guess skipper neilsen re- tired before you enrolled at the academy, did not he?
i guess.
one of the finest men, and officers, alive.  a real hero - in the best sense of the word - in world war two.  he taught us engineering and design. fought like a demon to develop atom subs.
so?
so all of a sudden his only son drops out of school, be- gins making noises like a pacifist.  a real egghead, do-gooder, and crackpot!  'ban the atom tests!  junk the nuclear subs!  spend the mili- tary budgetfor peace!'
a lot of people think like that.
but they're not skipper neilsen's son!  it broke his heart.  then when some newspapers called carl 'the honest, sincere son of a war-mongering father' - captain neilsen resigned from the navy.  oh, he still keeps his hand in - playing around with projects like the 'lungfish' - but it broke him, all the same.
have you ever talked to carl - tried to see his side?
'his' side?  I have seen it, all right. a nice, bright yellow!
what is it?
your 'out.'  this came for you.
my father!  he is not - ?
dead?  matter of fact, he is much better. he is left the hospital.
what did you mean:  I am 'out?'
your father can be in nome, alaska, tomorrow.  we have two choices: ask them to send him out in a 'copter', and take you off, or the shark can put back into nome...
you 'trade school boys' are all alike, are not you?  anybody who does not happen to think like a little gold-braided puppet is, ipso facto, a coward!
you said it.  but i will not argue -
wearing a uniform does not bestow an automatic monopoly on courage, commander!  it just so happens I am not a coward - physical or mental - and before I would risk my father's life...
we are all risking our lives!
that may be.  but dad stays where he is, and I am staying here!
you are really a mixed-up oddball, are not you?
perhaps.  but the idea of willingly going to school to spend my life at a paleozoic pastime that should have disappeared with the thunder-lizards - I am referring to war - that strikes me as the worst cowardice of all - being spiritually yellow!
you mean nothing is worth fighting for?
peace - the dignity of man - the destiny of the human spirit!  show me a man who says you win those by fighting wars, and i'll show you an idiot!
you may not win them.  but without men like your father, to 'degrade' himself by fighting to preserve them - or as much as we have of them - they would have disappeared, long ago!
it does not seem possible, but - could it be an electrical storm center - ?
under water?
high-intensity arcs will burn, submerged.  and millions of volts...discharged in random directions...
is there any way out of it?
seems to be all around...
what about down?
i...don't know!
see what?
the pattern.  each incident occurred almost precisely a thousand statute miles from the pole.  a line through the points of occurrence makes almost a complete circle...
...above murmansk, and finland.
suppose our theorizing is correct? then this could be the next danger point!
what if the tiger shark were to anticipate a bit?  perhaps be lying there waiting - ?
determine extent of damage, immediately.
after torpedo room:  report!
well, I will be - !
I will be another!
course and speed?
speed...about twenty-two knots. course...due north!
just musing about our 'one-eyed adversary' and the legend of homer.  'cyclopes' were the sons of heaven, who forged the thunder- bolts thrown by zeus.
our 'cyclops' throws quite a thunderbolt, itself!
unidentified flying objects.
then...this is a 'flying saucer?'
excuse me, skipper---
yes, griff?
all internal repairs completed, and frogmen report exterior damage minor.
you plotted the course of cyclops?  then that is our course!  wherever he goes, we go.....until we get him!
or, perhaps, until he gets us?
we have asked ourselves that - over and over - a thousand times.
but answers are what we need - not more questions!
we took for granted his source of energy was nuclear.  but suppose it is not at all - what if it is magnetic?
we harness energy on a small scale by cutting magnetic lines of force.  maybe cyclops does it on a super scale....
the north pole is the positive end of the biggest magnet of all - the earth itself!
....in such a way as to prevent his returning to it and, as you put it....  ...'recharging his batteries'?
if we were lucky enough to catch him with his power depleted....
cyclops?
sounds like it!  distress call, from a small freighter, between ellesmere island and greenland. one mayday, then...nothing.
you are sure it is cyclops?
take a look.
what is the running time?
thirty-four seconds!
a mass of jelly-like stuff came out of the thing, and caught our torpedo!
what???
what course, skipper?
right at our one-eyed friend!
right at him?
that is what i said!
but - what can we accomplish?
we can ram him!
we are stuck tight!
skipper!  look at the depth gauge!
a hundred and eighty fathoms! we can not be sinking that fast....
it is the screws, skipper.  at our declination angle, running in reverse, they are pulling the shark and cyclops right to the bottom.
and we are at safe maximum depth already....  stop engines!
suppose there is an atmosphere, of some kind, inside cyclops?
what?
if we could get inside the saucer - use our torches - maybe we could cut the shark loose?
you have got to let us try, skipper --
'us?'
reef and i can take the explorer down, clamp it around the eye, and ---
that is enough, holloway.  I have told you before, wearing boards on your shoulders, and parading with a stiff spine does not auto- matically endow you with back- bone - !
- any more than being the son of captain neilsen does!
however our ideas disagree, as I have said before, I am not a coward!  and it happens you have got no choice:  either i take you down there, in the lungfish, or you do not get there -
I would sooner swim!
you better take powell and carney with you --
the frogmen?
with their underwater experience, they will be invaluable.  take sidearms, and flare pistols --
sidearms?  but the saucer's dead.
we hope!
you all wait here.  I am going inside, take a look.
not alone, you are not!
how about that! the bow drove half through her, but she sealed herself right up.
what is more important - there is our problem.  the bow ram - the sawteeth are holding the shark in the break. if we can cut the ram, the shark can pull herself loose!
i think you are right.
go back and tell dr. neilsen. have him report to the skipper.
we read you!  go ahead, doctor!  they are inside the saucer.  it is filled with breathable air!
wonderful!
that is wonderful, carl!  reef thinks they can clear the shark bow so we can pull ourself loose!
skipper - could you take a look here...?
something wrong?
the inertial navigation system. must have been knocked out in the crash.
why do you say that?
we are dead in the water.  but it indicates we are moving!
what????
the radiation level - from the saucer - it is rising!
what direction does the system indicate?
due north.  at five knots...no, six!
toward the pole!
yeah?
listen!  hear that?
i do not hear anything.  maybe you have been down here too long.  why do not you go back up and -
strange you did not hear it. omit 274f
hey - you know somethin'?  it is getting lighter in here!
you know - it is?
and if i did not know better - I would swear we were moving!
let's get back to work, and maybe we will be, soon.
now they feel it...down below.
radiation level...constantly rising...
as we near the pole...
there is got to be an explanation!
there is.  i believe our friend...cyclops... is returning to life!
you hear that?
the sound again?
where do you think the voice you heard was coming from?
somewhere down there?
wonder where powell and carney are?
we will have to look for them later.
well?
I am with you!
remove your weapons, commander. and come here - alone!
come where?
here - keep these.  it wants me to come alone.
oh it does???
that is a face???
point of view is everything. to us, your form of life is ugly as we appear to you.
tell me something:  why can i hear you, when the others couldn't?
my mission is to study various solar systems, and planets - select the most suitable for colonization -
- for horrors like yourself?
swell!
your friend was to remain where he was!
he did!
i am afraid not.  therefore -
dave - !
what is goin' on in here, lad? what - ?
why not me?  what am i - the closing act?
on the contrary.  i want you - unharmed - perfect.
why?
i have selected you, to return with me - along with several other specimens, for study.  we will examine you and the others, discover desirable features to incorporate in our 'earth-colonizers.'
it is a living thing.  when damaged - you would say 'wounded' - it immediately 'heals' itself.
that is why no water leaked inside when we rammed you?
of course.  but it is time to be- gin the return voyage --
to navigate, will not you have to... see your way?
obviously.
that might be a little rough!
straight to the pole - at almost fifty knots!
nothing we can do, now.
excuse me, captain - there may be one last, desperate chance - a one-in-a-thousand shot...
anything ---
it is possible i could adapt one of the torpedo guidance systems to the icbm - so it would 'home' on the saucer when he rises from the pole.
what about time...?
cyclops will have to linger at the pole to recharge his power banks.
all right - go to it.
all ready?
as ready as we can be!  I will report to the skipper.
what is the corrected bearing to the magnetic pole?
minus three.
they are so remote - cold - beautiful, the stars.  but now - i wonder -
yes?
which is the one - we have to worry about?
maybe - just 'maybe' - when their ship does not return - they will decide not to come here, after all.
but if they do?
i do not know.
i would not worry.  so long as we have boats like the tiger shark - and people like you, the skipper, dave, kent, sir ian and my father -
and his 'egghead' son!  we will give 'em a rough reception, will not we?
