why do i get the feeling when you say some time, you mean some time.
i was already here a good many years when they came in in 1932.
1932? that is like, that is like...
sixty-five years ago. they always said the farm could not hold 'em forever. looks like you are finally free, boys.
hey, the dude's holdin'.
come on, old-timer, hook the brothers up.
hell of a way to get out. heard they burned up in that fire yesterday.
i seen the bodies before they sealed 'em up. them fellas sizzled up good. looked like some shit from the x- files.  damn, that shit's nasty.
ray's special recipe. he always had exacting standards where the hooch was concerned.
what were they, bootleggers?
oh, no, ray. not tonight. spanky's not happy with you.
is spanky here?
no, but...
then what is the problem?
do yourself a favor and find another place where they let you in the front door.
but this is where the action is and i have to be where the action is. look, when your old lady wanted those alligator shoes, did not i come through for you? am not she stepping in style now?
yeah...
well, alright then. what do you think about this new tie?
sharp.
i look good tonight. and i feel lucky, too.
for the kind of money they charge here, you would think they could hire somebody to actually wash the dishes.
claude. here's to your new job down at the bank. i always knew you would make something of yourself.
know what I am going to buy with my first pay check?
season tickets to the yankees. right there on the first base line.  what is wrong, baby?
i was hoping you were gonna say an engagement ring, claude.
engagement ring!
that is what respectable folks do. get a job, get married, start having babies. that is what you want, is not it?
sure it is. i just do not see any reason to rush into things. damn, look at this shirt. I will be right back.
do not i know you?
i do not think so.
sure i do. what is your name again?
claude banks.
claude banks. how could i forget that? you have got to remember me. ray gibson. we went to high school together.
you went to monroe?
that is right! good old monroe...
come on, honey, let's get out of here.
but I am having a good time...
here, this belongs to you.  it was empty when i found it.
good old monroe.
what i want to know is what happened to your cush between the time that you got up from the table and when i caught up with you in the johnny?
i do not see where that is any of your business.
did those two muscle heads shake you down? swear I have seen them down at the track with sure-shot riley. that is it, am not it? a gambling debt.
where they taking us, anyway?
probably to spanky's headquarters down at the pier.
good, I am looking forward to meeting this spanky. give me a chance to straighten out this whole mess.
i can not wait to see that. you slay me, man.
what are they gonna do to us?
you? dine and ditch, right?  over ten bucks?  you are probably looking at a thumb.
a thumb? what do you mean, like cut it off? for ten bucks?  that include the tip?
you do not have to drown that fella, spanky. you already scared him half to death. he did not know who he was fucking with.
but you do. what does that say about you, ray? what does that say about me? I have given you a lot of leeway over the years on account of your father. but he did not last long enough to teach you the meaning of the word respect so i guess I am going to have to school you myself.
come on, spank, I am just trying to get by here. you remember how it was when you were starting out.
what is that, some of your bathtub brew?
puerto rican rum. see for yourself.
where did you get this?
comes up the mississippi. i can get more. a lot more. i was thinking about going into business for myself, but under the circumstances, I would be willing to take on a partner.
I am interested. keep talking.
all i need is the front money and a truck. i could be back in two, three days tops if i had somebody to share the driving.
if you fuck me on this one, I will spare no expense.
understood.
alright, ray, you have got a deal. pick your man and get going.
I will take the little choirboy, if you do not mind.
if i was you, I would want somebody who can handle himself in a tight spot.
i just want somebody who will not put a bullet in my back once the truck is full.
come on, daddy-o. you have not said a word since we started. least you could do is make some friendly conversation.
look, man, i do not want friendly conversation. i do not want to be your friend. I have seen your friends and i do not like them. i just want to do this thing and get back to new york in time to start my job.
start your job? what kind of job?
well, if you must know, bank teller at first federal of manhattan. I am responsible for keeping track of hundreds, occasionally thousands of dollars.
that is some long green.
damn straight, it is. i got my own set of keys because I am supposed to open up. so if i am not there 8 a.m. monday morning, there is going to be hell to pay.
what?
nothing.
no, tell me what is so funny.
i do not know. bank teller. sounds like ladies work to me.
well, maybe i should dig around in other people's clothes for money. it is obviously been highly successful for you.
hey, you would be surprised what you find in other people's pockets. just got to avoid them deadbeat bank tellers. get you every time.
i did not start out to be a bank teller. i was going to be a ballplayer. even had an offer to play short for the newark eagles.
why did not you take it?
the negro league do not pay so good. and you are always on the road. that do not wash with daisy.
you gave up baseball to be a bank teller? i can not latch on to that.
at some point a man's got to get serious about his future. I am sure you have no idea what I am talking about.
you are talking about giving up baseball to be a bank teller.
bank teller's just a start. i got plans. real plans. not opening some zoom-boom room. this time next year I will be a loan officer.
a loan officer?
that is right, a loan officer.
so you mean, if i needed some jack to get my nightclub up and running, I would have to hype some square like you?
uh-huh.
how would i get a loan, anyway?
you need collateral.
like this?
that thing? who would you steal it from?
my daddy gave me this watch.
yeah? who would he steal it from?
my daddy is dead so watch your mouth. you can say what you want about me, but do not be dragging my daddy into it. this watch means the world to me. solid gold. keeps perfect time.
looks like a fake to me. loan denied!
ah, go chase yourself. I will take my business elsewhere. and for future reference, you are no longer welcome at ray's boom-boom room.
there is no boom-boom room.
when there is, you can forget about it. and i swear to god, you ever talk about my daddy again I am going to kick your bank-telling, loan-denying ass, you got me?
oooh...
i think i liked you better when you kept your trap shut.
maybe we oughta find another place.
are you kidding? tell me you do not want a slice of that pie right over there.
i must have left my appetite outside, which is where i think we ought to be right now.
you mean this sign? the one that says "no coloreds allowed." that is a good question. ray, how come we missed the sign?
look, ma'am, we have been driving all day. we would just like to purchase one of those pies and we will be on our way.
thanks for backing me up here, uncle claude.
do not uncle claude me. you get a load of those crackers? could not be a mouthful of teeth among the bunch of 'em. why you want to pick a fight with people like that for?
you are soft.
what did you say?
i said you are soft.
hey, man, do not ever call me that.
i call it like i see it, and what i see is definitely soft.
alright. you want some pie?
yeah, i want some pie.
okay then, I am going to walk over to that counter and get us some fucking pie.
how you doing? we are looking for slim.
you found him.
man, that music is hot. what goes on down there, slim?
that is natchez-under-the-hill.
blacks welcome there?
green's the only color that matters under the hill. they got gambling, girls. you oughta check it out.
maybe we will. nice meeting you.
nice meeting you? you have been here before, have not you?
what gave you that idea?
oh, i do not know, maybe because our lives depend on it, i just sort of thought you knew what you were doing!
do not get all agitated on me. i bought a bottle of rum from a couple of dudes, i heard 'em talking...
let me get this straight. we drove all the way down to klan country 'cause you heard a couple of guys talking?
what are you complaining about? it worked out. everything's cool. now, come on, let's head down there and see what is shaking. we deserve a little reward.
reward?
there are people down there having fun. i want to be one of them. i want you to be one of them. on monday you can be a bank teller if you want, but tonight you are a bootlegger with a truck full of puerto rican rum and a fistful of cash.
I have never seen you in here before.
that is because I have never been here before.
I am sylvia. what is your name?
can not you remember your own name?
i know it begins with a "c"...
well, mr. "c", how about buying a girl a drink?  two bourbons.
i really shouldn't. i got to keep an eye on my friend.
he looks like he can take care of himself.
claude. that is my name. claude. that is never happened before.
you are cute. you have any money, claude?
ten dollars. but i need it to get home.
why would you want to go home? it is so early.
hey, ray. I have been looking for you.
here i am.
guess we better get going, huh?
still got that ten dollars?
well, not exactly. see, i met this girl. real nice girl. god-fearing girl. her name's sylvia.
that jelly you were talking to right here?
she is in a tight spot. her mama needs this operation, and they am not got the money for it. their church took up a collection but they were still short...
so you made a generous contribution.
what can i say? when the spirit moves me.
that was mighty charitable of you, claude. looks like we both got fucked tonight.
what are you talking about?
while you were upstairs doing god's work, i was getting jack-legged by a fool with four threes.
you lost all our money in a card game?
he even got my daddy's watch.
fuck that cheap-ass watch --  i mean, how the hell are we gonna get home without any money?
we have still got 36 cases of rum. that is better than money.
i think he is hurt pretty bad.
he is dead.
oh, man, I have never seen a dead body before!
what do you think you are doing?! the man's been dead for two seconds! do not you have any respect?
it am not here.
what am not there?
my daddy's watch. this is the dude i was telling you about --
yeah, nobody puts 'em away like old what's-his-name.
winston. his name's winston.
come on, ray, better get winston back to the truck.
would you look at that, ray. winston up and died on us.
hell with him then. if he can not share the driving, he can not ride in the truck.
man, this is going to delay everything. spanky's going to be pissed.
spanky's going to be pissed? poor spanky. fuck spanky! what the hell kind of a name is spanky, anyway? you are responsible for this situation. i blame you for everything. if it was not for you, I would be home having a hot meal right now.
if it was not for me, you would be washing up on the beach at coney island right now.  "i need all my thumbs and fingers for praying and doing good."
besides, why bother with bootlegging when we got us a clear cut case of murder?
excuse me, sheriff. as we explained to your associate here, there is been a mistake. we did not kill anybody. now, as for the bootlegging, we happen to work for a very important man in new york.
mr. johnson is very well connected. if you were to let us go, i guarantee he would show you his appreciation, if you know what i mean.
are you offering me a bribe?
I am just trying to pay the toll on the road to justice.
you may be able to buy your way out of trouble up in new york city, but down here we take murder seriously.
life?! how long is life? we were just walking back to the truck. we did not do nothing! fuck life!
life?! what is life mean? there is no way i can do life. i got a job starts monday morning!
i would not do that if i was you.
shut up. it is too damn hot. what do you know, anyway?
why am not his pick swinging?
why am not that pick swinging?
too hot, huh? well, you tell that lazy jiggaboo the state of mississippi am not interested in his meteorological assessments.
listen up, jiggaboo! state of mississippi am not interested in your... in your...  metropolitan assets!
tell him the state of mississippi is only interested in getting this ditch cleared by sundown.
state of mississippi wants this ditch cleared by sundown. you got that?!
i got it... boss.
he do not sound like he is from 'round here.
he is from new york city. that one, too.
new york. that is up north, am not it? they will find we do things different down here.
looks like we got a couple of live ones. how long these boys in for?
judge gave 'em the long ride.
life, huh? they step outta line again, we will shorten up that sentence real fast.
apparently, your sister died.
jenny?
no, it says marleen here.
appreciate it.
anybody else need anything read?
how you doin'?
I am all right.
you ever done time before?
you kidding? I have been in and out of prison my entire life. mostly in. I am hard-core.
then you will not have no problem making the adjustment. you need anything, help of any kind, gimme a holler. name's jangle leg.
'preciate it. claude.
soft and supple. like a lady's.
i try to moisturize regularly.
why do you think they call him jangle leg?
somebody just told me he wins the three-legged race every year.
so?
he does it all by himself.
what is that?
creamed chip beef on toast. except we are outta beef, so i had to improvise.
can not i get one of those steaks you got grilling back there?
those are for trusties, unless you got thirty cents or two packs of cigs.
this fork is filthy.
the fork is the least of your worries, claude.
what is your name?
me? willie long.
what are you in for, willie?
that is a long story...
what a second, you have been in here since you were thirteen?
what about you, radio?
at least he did not kill santa claus with his bare hands.
you killed santa claus?
i kinda lost track of how many people we killed that night. must have been 15 or twenty -- not counting women and children. it was a real bloodbath. all that screaming...
pack of lies. do not listen to him. we did not kill nobody. we were railroaded. and we going to prove that.
he just blocked it out. nigger's crazy. he is the one who did all the stabbing. he is capable of some heinous shit.  how 'bout him down there?
goldmouth? they say he was born out back behind the shithouse. that is what they say.
you all been here a long time. does not anybody ever escape from this place?
they run but they never get too far.
couple years back, cookie made it clear to greenville.
greenville, that the nearest town?
alright, well, let's say you make it to greenville. what is there, anyway?
grandma dodi's pork rib joint.
no, man. i want you to have it.
wait up there, claude. you give that guy your corn bread and the next thing you know you will be ironing his shirts and clipping his toenails.
maybe i oughta eat your corn bread.
my corn bread? oh no, my friend. i love corn bread.
i do not see no wedding ring, banks. conjugal visits are for married prisoners only.
you think you could make an exception just this once, boss? she came all the way down from new york.
i do not need the baptists on my back, but i suppose i could issue a temporary marriage license for a nominal fee.
biscuit, when you are done with jangle leg, you think you could squeeze me in?
thought you would never ask. biscuit needs some gravy.
I am talking about a haircut.
cost you a pair of nylons.
hey, ray, goldmouth do not believe me. am not it so they got trains up in new york city that run under the streets?
they are called subways. a nickel will take you from one end of manhattan to the other. helluva ride, too.
hey, ray, you ever been to the cotton club?
sure I have been to the cotton club. it is pretty sweet. but it do not hold a candle to the boom boom room. that is where the real action is.
what is the boom boom room?
that is my joint. the swinginest nightclub in town.
you got your own nightclub?
well, not yet. it is still in the planning stages.
so it do not exist.
just because it is in my mind, goldmouth, do not mean it am not real. everything worth anything starts with a dream.
mama?
rayford!
what are you doing here, mama?
i heard some things so i went to see spanky johnson. he told me what happened and gave me some money to get down here. what happened to your face?
do not worry about that. hey, fellas, this here is my mama. these are some of my friends. that is willie, there is poker face, radio, cookie, goldmouth, biscuit, jangle leg.
rayford, i wanted so much more for you than this.
do not cry, mama. this place am not so bad as it looks. sure, we work hard, but there is plenty fresh air and sunshine... and you know something else, I have taken to going to church regular. they got services every sunday right there in the mess hall.
do not you lie to me, rayford.  you still have your daddy's watch?  well, this is all i can give you. i wish it was more.
i can not take that, mama.
do not argue with me. you need it more than i do. i know how a little money can help in a place like this.
i can not believe this. i always said I would never end up like this. i thought I would make something of myself, do something with my life. you know, be successful. have a big house, a family. now I am going to end up just like daddy.
do not say that, rayford. do not ever say that. he gave up hope. that is where you got to be different.
they gave me life, mama.
i gave you life. and they can not take it away from you. remember that. you will get outta here someday. i believe that. you got to believe it, too.
did you go see my cousin maynard like i asked you in my letter?
of course i did. he said he would file an appeal right away. you did not tell me he was so good looking.
yeah, that side of the family has all the looks and none of the brains. i hope he do not mess things up.
he seemed like a pretty good lawyer to me. his offices take up an entire floor of that big, new building on 125th street, and he was using all these words i never heard before. he even offered me a job.
a job, huh? well, that is nice, real nice. you will not have to work long. I will be back soon enough. after i start work at first federal bank of manhattan, I will be keeping you in style. everything will get back to normal again. that is a promise.
listen, claude, maynard wanted to know if he should file the appeal on behalf of your friend, too.
ray gibson?  no, no. he is the reason I am in here, daisy. for all i know, he is got a record a mile long. i got a better shot of getting out of here on my own. you tell maynard to think about me, concentrate on me. understand?
sure, claude, whatever you say.
we lost yesterday on accounta the rain. that means we gotta make up for it today, so put your backs to it.
you heard the boss! let's move!
cookie drew me a map to greenville.
so?
you know what I am saying.
yeah, i know what your saying. and I am saying if you made it that far, they would be watching every train that pulls out of that station.
that is why we will not take the train. cookie showed me where there is a farm house. they got a boat there.
what do you know about boats? i bet you can not even swim.
what i know about boats is they take you to freedom. come on, man. i think we can do this.
why are you always talking about we? there is no we. there is a me, there is a you. but there is no we between us.
you want out of this place, do not you? do not tell me you are starting to like it here.
no, i do not like it here. look around. there is nothing but ass. male ass! balls and ass! believe you me, I am getting out of here.
what does that mean?
forget it.
I am not going to forget it. what does that mean? if you have got a plan, i think i have a right to know about it. i told you my plan.
getting a map from a chubby chef named cookie? dragging our asses through the swamps in search of some worm-eaten boat? that am not a plan, that is a vacation for two in the hole. when you have got a map to new york city, you get back to me.
hey, ray, what is the name of that nightclub of yours?
you mean the boom-boom room?
that is it. the boom-boom room. sure would like to see that place when you get it up and running.
you should have come by last night, radio. you woulda had yourself some fun.
last night? what are you talking about, ray?
I am talking about old satchmo nearly blew the roof off the joint.
who?
satchmo.
you mean louis armstrong?
he is a good friend of mine. drops by the club whenever he is in town.
that is right, fellas. catch any cab heading uptown. all the drivers know ray's boom-boom room.
hey, ray...
where am i at, man?
c'mon, goldmouth, somebody is got to watch the front door.
ray, my man, this steak is like butter!
made just for you, cookie.
how about some steak sauce?
no problem. oh, boy!
craddock!... williams... henshaw!... banks!
here!
maynard banks, esquire. attorney at law.
gimme that. that does not concern you.
I am sure it don't.
what is up, ray?
claude.
sure is hot today. think it will rain later?
what do you want, claude?
what do i want? what makes you think i want something?
my daddy always said when a man starts talking about the weather keep you hand on your wallet.
your daddy must have been a helluva guy, a deep man, a wise man. sure wish i could have met him --
cut the bullshit. what do you want, claude?
you still got that map?
yeah.
well, if you are still thinking about booking it, i want in. i think we can make it.
we? did i hear you say we? as i recall, you are the one who said there is no we. guess we got some bad news in that letter, huh?
look, my cousin maynard is a lawyer. he filed an appeal on my behalf --
on your behalf. what happened to we?
the appeal was denied. then daisy went and fell for maynard. they are engaged to be married, can you believe that?
well, let's just think about that for a moment. he is a successful lawyer up in new york city and you are down here with a bright future in the cotton picking business. eeny, meeny, miney, maynard.
come on, man. do not shut me out. I am telling you, you and me, that map, we can go places.
you know what, claude? this whole time we have been down here, you have done nothing but think about yourself, acting like this whole thing is my fault. that plan with your cousin, did that include me?
no.
at least you are honest for once. so now you want to be my friend? well, let me tell you something, claude-my- shit-don't-stink-banks. you got a lot to learn about friendship.
does that mean I am in?
i do not think so, claude. you would just slow me down. we would have to stop every five minutes so you could polish your silverware. there is no way around it, you are soft.
what did you say?
i said you are soft.
do not call me that. you know i hate it when you call me that.
all in, boss!
move it out.
movin' it out, boss.
you did it, man! you got us out! next stop, new york city!
new york's a long way's off. let's just keep moving, okay?
i know these trees all look the same, but I am getting an awful familiar vibration from this one right here. you sure you know where we are going?
absolutely. the map is very clear.
let me take a look at that map.
you call this a map? what was cookie smoking when he drew this?
cookie did not draw it. i did.
you drew this?!
i knew you would not come if i did not have a map.
that gripes my soul, man. we are out here in the middle of nowhere. there is shit nibbling at my balls! do not tell me you do not know where we are going!
come on, ray, time to go!
I am stuck!
they am not men, mae rose. they are convicts. and nigger convicts to boot. can you say nigger?
nagger?
no, nigger.
nigger.
that is my girl.
a night in the hole?
better make it a week.
do not mention it.
hell, you would probably be half way to new york by now...
I am serious, man. do not mention it. ever.
keep it together, claude. you wake up the man, he will shoot you for sure.
he would be doing me a favor. I am getting outta here one way or the other! goddamn rats and shit! fuck!
all right, man, just settle down. we will get outta here, claude. we will get outta here real soon.
how the fuck are we gonna do that, ray?!
we will just get off at the next stop.
say what?
that is right, we will get off at the next stop. the train's pulling into the station right now.
the hell you talking about? what train?
we are in the bronx, my man. hundred and sixty first street.
hundred and sixty first street? that is yankee stadium.
hell, yes, yankee stadium. bombers are playing a double-header against the red sox.
red sox... who is on the mound?
i do not know. who do you want?
allie reynolds. he is my boy.
sure, it says allie reynolds right here in the program. he is warming up right now. man, we are so close to the field i need cleats. how did you get such good seats?
i know people.
they must be the right people. whoa, there goes the hot dog man. let's get a couple. damn, that smells good. nothing like a ballpark hot dog, huh?
you get ketchup?
ketchup? who eats ketchup on a hot dog? mustard's what you want.
i can not eat it with mustard.
give me back that hot dog. I will eat it myself.
what am i gonna eat?
you can starve to death for all i care. now shut up, the game's about to start.
hey, man, is babe ruth in the lineup today?
of course, he is in the lineup. there he goes right there. hey, babe...!
we do not need no fences at camp 8, boss.
that is right. we do not need no fences, we have the gun line. it runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. you are now inside the gun line...
what you are dealing with here is a complete lack of talent.
I am sick of watching camp 12 win the championship. every year they get to roast the victory pig and we get dick. this year i want that pig.
you want to hit?  yo, claude. give can not get right a shot.
him?
can not be worse than any of these other fools.
all right, grab the bat. let's see what you can do.
judge must have money riding on the championship.
do not matter who camp 12 puts on the mound. all i know is when this season's over camp 8's going to have pork chops.
we get the games on the radio sometimes.
we played down in jackson yesterday. heard a rumor you have got a boy up here who can hit the ball a ton.
you probably mean can not get right. that is him over there.
can not get right? that is the kid's name? can i talk to him?
you can try, but you will not get too far. why you interested?
crawford's are always looking for new talent.
maybe you did not notice, but this is a prison.
there are ways around that. right sergeant?
it is amazing what ray here can do with a couple of pounds of potato skins and some molasses.
so, blocker, what do you think of our boy?
what about us? do not forget to mention us.
we are like his handlers. he can not function without us.
she will be fine. she just had a bit of a shock.
is mae rose okay?
she is doing just fine.
and the baby?
he is a big one.
it is a boy! well, let's get a look at him.
god may have given it, but claude banks spotted it and nurtured it.
damn straight. i expect those pittsburgh crawdads to remember that.
crawfords.
whatever.
alright, listen up! i want every man lined up out here in the yard on the double! let's move it!
you heard what the man said! move it!
do not take it so hard, biscuit. she do not mean nothin' to him.
hell with him. it am not that.
these are free papers.
what am i going to do out there, ray? i can not go home to my mama like this. I will get the strap for sure.
come on, biscuit, this is good news. your mama's going to break down in tears when you show up on her doorstep.
it is 1945. it is a different world now.
not for me, it ain't.
well you can not stay here, biscuit. this am not no life for a man. any one of these fellas would give their right arm to be in your shoes. i sure know i would.
it is a pardon from the governor.
let me see that.
yo, blocker, what is going on here?
kid's getting out. i got him a pardon.
yeah, but what about me and ray? i did not see our names on that pardon. you said you were going to put in a good word for us.
i did, claude. i mentioned you. i mentioned you both. but the fact is, pardons do not come cheap. the kid can hit. what can you do?
let it go, claude.
I am not going to let it go. the man needs to explain himself. makin' promises.
look, i am truly sorry about this. I would like to help you...
but you can't.
at least the kid's getting out. is not this what you wanted?
you show them crawfords how to play ball.
make 'em throw strikes.
one of the new kids said they are farming those acres just north of the swamp. he said he saw a crop duster flying around the place.
I am not in the mood right now, ray.
he said they keep it parked out behind the barn. can not be that hard to fly a plane. lots of people do it.
they are called pilots! I am serious, ray. I am not in the mood for one of your stupid, fucked-up plans right now.
i do not see you coming up with any plans.
my plan is on his way to pittsburgh right now. that congenital idiot just got himself a pardon signed by the governor thanks to us, but we can not seem to do nothing for ourselves. do not you feel a little disgusted right now?
crop duster.
i am not getting in no airplane with you. I am finally wrapping my mind around the concept. they threw us in this shithole for life. do not you get it, ray? we are going to die here! might as well head up to the cemetery, pick a plot and start digging.
my daddy died in prison. he gave up hope and hung himself. what you are talking about is the same damn thing. that am not how I am going.
maybe you are fooling yourself, ray. maybe you are just a chip off the old block.
take that back or we am not friends no more, claude banks.
here's a news flash, ray. we never were friends. we have just been stuck together for 12 years. it is been nothing but bad luck since the moment i ran into you. every time i look at you i get sick to my stomach thinking about what my life could have been if I would never bumped into ray gibson.
better watch yourself claude, before you say something you regret.
the only thing i regret is the day i met you.
well, if that is the way it is...
that is the way it is.
then i have nothing left to say to you.
alright willie, i think i got everything. I will talk to dillard, see if i can get up to the infirmary and check up on you. make sure they are changing your diapers regular.
they will be sending you up there soon enough. and not just for a visit, neither.
i slipped in a couple of bottles of my latest batch. help wash down all them pills they will be giving you.
yeah.
my name's yvette. sylvia sent me. you look just like she said.
she is alright, is not she?
oh, she is fine. she is just not coming today.
why not?
she got married last month.
married?
real nice guy, too. trumpet player. they moved down to new orleans.
she always said that if you were on the outside...
but I am not on the outside. I am in here.
i know she is sorry she will not be seeing you anymore. anyway, she wanted me to take care of you.
take care of me?
you know, go to the tonk or whatever.
I am too old for you. besides, I am not much in the mood.
want me to come back some other time?
nice girl like you do not belong in a place like this. but if you talk to sylvia, tell her old claude said congratulations.
comfortable?
as a pair of fur-lined bedroom slippers, boss.
we will see what those slippers feel like after, say, 24 hours. and if you step down off them bottles -- if one toe so much as touches the dirt -- one of these boys is going to shoot you dead. let's see. we need a special man for this job.
you are a sucker. I would have taken that deal.
excuse me? are you talking to me?
I would have knocked you off those bottles, put a bullet in your ass and be half way to new york right now.
after all these years of blissful silence, i almost forgot how annoying the sound of your voice can be.
i hope you do not think i owe you anything. because i do not owe you a damn thing.
i did not do if for you, anyway. i just am not no boot-licking trusty, that is all.
i was sorry to hear about your mama passing.
that was five years ago.
i know, but since we are talking, i thought I would mention it.
we are not talking, you are talking, and doing too damn much of it, if you ask me.
what?!
you sure looked funny running for those pies, bullets flying all around you.
bullets were not the problem. that pie was too hot. burned my tongue.
damn dentures slipping again. everything falls apart when you grow old, eh, claude? time sure marches on.
yes, boss.
you know, I am fixing on retiring at the end of the summer, going to try to enjoy what few years i have left. what do you think of this place? it is one of those new retirement communities down on the gulf.
i apologize, claude. that was rude of me.
that is alright, boss. takes a lot more than a colorful brochure to hurt my feelings.
you been on the farm for quite a spell, have not you?
over forty years now. me and ray gibson out there.
forty years. that is a long time for any crime, even murder.
it is a hell of a lot longer when you are innocent.
half the men in this prison swear they are innocent. do not you think that is kinda funny?
you have to forgive me if i do not laugh.
you and wilkins sure are getting chummy. you two planning on going steady, or something?
he is just a lonely old man. he likes to talk.
hey, I am a lonely old man. i like to talk, too. so why do not we start by talking about what kind of a plan you are working on?
I am not working on a plan.
you can not fool me, claude. i know you got something brewing.
goodnight, ray.
what the hell are you doing?
do not touch that car.
wilkins' driver's got the flu, so he asked me to fill in for him.
you have not driven in 40 years, you am not even got a license. man's taking his life in his hands, putting you behind the wheel! where you taking him?
greenville. we are picking up the new superintendent at the bus station.
you know i trust you, claude.
yes, sir.
I will be right back.
damn, it was getting hot in there.
what the hell are you doing in that trunk?!
you did not think i was going to let you escape alone, did you?
i am not escaping! we are picking up the new super just like i told you.
then you are lucky i came along. does not take a visionary to spot a golden opportunity like this. now help me out of this trunk.
you am not getting out of that trunk.
come on, man, I am starting to cramp up here.  we have the chance right here, right now, i say we go!
go where, ray?
back to new york for starters.
and what will we do when we get there? I am sixty-five years old, ray. so are you. what are we going to do out here? get married, have kids, settle down? that boat sailed without us, man.
this boat's going to sail without you, too. i do not care if i last one day out here. at least it is one day of freedom. now gimme those keys.
forget about that. you run if you want to, but you are not taking this car.
claude, man, I am serious. give me those keys.
i am not spending a month in the hole so you can take a joy ride.
do not make me take them away from you.
hey, there is wilkins!
you sure it was him?
some faces you just do not forget. warren pike's is one of 'em.
i do not like it, i do not like it one bit. we shoulda taken that car when we had the opportunity. we would be half way to new york by now.
we would be in the hole by now. hey, man, you are peeing on my shoe.
i know. simultaneously, they shake and zip. claude bends down and picks up a bowl of gumbo, placing it on a tray next to an identical one.
lemonade?
i prefer bourbon.
I am sorry, i do not keep any liquor in the house.
well, fortunately, i carry my own.
hunting's been pretty good on the farm the last few years. it is one of the perks of the job. if you are interested, tomorrow i could show you some of my favorite spots.
you do not have to twist my arm.  say now, that gumbo has quite a kick.
thank you, claude. that will be all for tonight.
goodnight, mr. wilkins. mr. pike.
goodnight, claude.
if you do not mind my saying, you seem mighty familiar with your house boy.
i believe in treating the convicts with respect, if that is what you mean.
respect? well, is not that progressive.
if somebody deserves respect, mr. pike, they receive it from me, convict or no convict.
yeah, it is getting late. i could sure use a bath.
that is a real nice watch you got there, sir. fancy old thing even plays a little tune.
yeah, it is special. they do not make 'em like this anymore.
sure don't. mind if i ask where you got it?
why, my wife gave it to me on our anniversary some years back.
must have been some time ago. maybe forty years?
something like that, yes.
she give you that scar, too?
i oughta shoot you for that comment, boy.
like you shot winston hancock?
what is going on here?
I am afraid I am going to have to teach this uppity nigger a lesson in manners.
cool it, ray. you are going to get us in a lot of trouble.
he is right, gibson. put down the gun and we will work this out.
I am going to work this man's brains out the back of his head.
shoot him, wilkins!
do not shoot, sir. i can deal with this.  ray, buddy, you do not want to shoot this white man. see, you do that, they will kill you for sure. and it is not that i like you or anything, but I have kinda gotten used to having you around.
he is got my daddy's watch, claude. i always knew whoever took that watch killed winston hancock. and that was you, mr. pike.
he is crazy. do not listen to him, wilkins.
do you realize what your saying, gibson?
that watch was the only thing my daddy ever gave me. it meant the world to me.
goddamn it, wilkins, would you please just shoot the nigger!
he shoots me, i swear I will take you with me! i just want to hear you say it.
is there any truth to what he is saying, pike?
what difference does it make? natchez was better off without winston hancock! who cares if a couple of no- account bootleggers went to jail for his killing? at least the state of mississippi got 40 years of cheap labor out of the deal!
no, I am going to kill him --
no, believe me, I am going to kill him!
i can not do it.
that is because you are soft. gimme the gun.
what did you say?
i said you are soft.
do not call me soft, i hate it when you call me that.
why do not he just tell 'em the truth?
he knows nobody wants to hear the truth.
claude, mind helping me to the bathroom?
sure, boss.
I am not your boss. not anymore.
so ray and claude got their pardons, right?
no, they did not get their pardons, you dumb shit! if they would got their pardons way back then, we would not be burying them today, would we?
oh, right. well, why did not they get those pardons?
old man wilkins' never came out of that bathroom. died right there on the crapper.
just like elvis.
of course nobody believed ray and claude.
that musta messed 'em up pretty bad.
what happened to 'em after that, willie?
nurse humphries was checking my prostate this morning. i got an erection.
an erection, huh? have not had one of those in a while.
tell me about it. scared me at first. then, before i could figure out what to do with it, it was gone. imagine my disappointment.
sure would like to see the house that ruth built one more time.
well, ruth shoulda built it a little better. damn thing's falling to pieces. going to hurt somebody.
what do you expect? it is almost as old as we are.
they oughta tear that shit down and ship them yankees cross the river to jersey.
remember what that place looked like on a sunny spring day? more beautiful than any church i was ever in.
over to the morgue and up the hill to the cemetery. never thought I would admit it, claude, but you were right.
'course i was right. about what?
you are the one who said that boneyard's the only way we are getting out of here. we are going to join all the rest of 'em soon enough. jangle leg, biscuit, goldmouth, poker face, cookie, radio -- yes sir, pick a plot and start digging...
are you trying to tell me after all this time you finally have a plan for busting out of here?
shh! is that so hard to believe?
do not tell me, i do not want to hear it. it is probably all fucked up, anyway.
you do not want to hear it, you do not want to hear it. there is no shame in that.
it is too late for plans.
never thought I would hear ray gibson say that. hell with you then. you would only slow me down anyway.
is everyone here?
hey, where is claude? i do not see claude!
stay calm, ray. we will find him. claude! has anyone seen claude?
he must still be in there.
wait for the firemen!
it will be too late.
you can not go in there, ray! you will never make it!
I am going in for him. he would do the same for me.
man, you really bummed me out. that is a terrible story.  nigger, you crying?
hell, no! i just got something in my eye.
it is alright for a man to cry once in awhile. just do not make a habit of it.
hey, willie, what was claude's plan, anyway?
nothing to it, really. claude figured they could steal a couple of bodies from the morgue. they got a couple of crackers working there do not know their asses from their elbows. then they was going to set fire to the infirmary and make it look like those bodies was them that got stuck inside. claude figured during the commotion, it would not be too hard to slip onto one of the fire trucks and hang tight until it rolled right on out of here in the morning.
what do you think about that?
i think that old man lost his marbles about a hundred years ago. come on, let's get this over with.
i can not eat this.
why the hell not?
i saw that hot dog guy in the bathroom urinating. he did not wash his hands.
just put some mustard on it and eat it.
you did not get ketchup?
gimme that damn thing.
hell of a day for a ballgame, huh, claude?
hell of a day, ray. yankees are on fire.
no, this am not going to work either. it is half chocolate, half vanilla.
so?
they are touching.
if you do not eat that ice cream right now, I am going to strangle you until you are completely dead.
yeah? you and what army?
next thing, you are going to be complaining about the seats.
well, if you must know, they could be closer.
damn, i shoulda let spanky johnson drown you in the river when i had the chance.
i know you are not talking to me...
I am sorry, he is on medication...
