bonasera, we know each other for years, but this is the first time you come to me for help.  i do not remember the last time you invited me to your house for coffee...even though our wives are friends.
what do you want of me?  I will give you anything you want, but do what i ask!
and what is that bonasera?
no.  you ask for too much.
i ask for justice.
the court gave you justice.
an eye for an eye!
but your daughter is still alive.
then make them suffer as she suffers.  how much shall i pay you.
you never think to protect yourself with real friends.  you think it is enough to be an american.  all right, the police protects you, there are courts of law, so you do not need a friend like me. but now you come to me and say don corleone, you must give me justice. and you do not ask in respect or friendship.  and you do not think to call me godfather; instead you come to my house on the day my daughter is to be married and you ask me to do murder...for money.
america has been good to me...
then take the justice from the judge, the bitter with the sweet, bonasera.  but if you come to me with your friendship, your loyalty, then your enemies become my enemies, and then, believe me, they would fear you...
be my friend.
good.  from me you will get justice.
godfather.
some day, and that day may never come, i would like to call upon you to do me a service in return.
you look terrif on the floor!
what are you, a dance judge?  go do your job; take a walk around the neighborhood... see everything is okay.
...a fine boy from sicily, captured by the american army, and sent to new jersey as a prisoner of war...
nazorine, my friend, tell me what i can do.
now that the war is over, enzo, this boy is being repatriated to italy.  and you see, godfather...  he...my daughter...they...
you want him to stay in this country.
godfather, you understand everything.
tom, what we need is an act of congress to allow enzo to become a citizen.
an act of congress!
is it necessary?
you understand him better than anyone.
I have never seen anything like it.
i told you i had a lot of relatives.
michael, what are those men doing?
they are waiting to see my father.
they are talking to themselves.
they are going to talk to my father, which means they are going to ask him for something, which means they better get it right.
why do they bother him on a day like this?
because they know that no sicilian will refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day.
no.  his name is luca brasi.  you would not like him.
who is he?
you really want to know?
yes.  tell me.
you like spaghetti?
you know i love spaghetti.
then eat your spaghetti and I will tell you a luca brasi story.
once upon a time, about fifteen years ago some people wanted to take over my father's olive oil business.  they had al capone send some men in from chicago to kill my father, and they almost did.
al capone!
my father sent luca brasi after them.  he tied the two capone men hand and foot, and stuffed small bath towels into their mouths. then he took an ax, and chopped one man's feet off...
michael...
then the legs at the knees...
michael you are trying to scare me...
then the thighs where they joined the torso.
michael, i do not want to hear anymore...
then luca turned to the other man...
michael, i love you.
...who out of sheer terror had swallowed the bath towel in his mouth and suffocated.
i never know when you are telling me the truth.
i told you you would not like him.
he is coming over here!
tom...tom, I would like you to meet kay adams.
how do you do.
my brother, tom hagen.
hello kay.  your father's inside, doing some business.  he is been asking for you.
thanks tom.
if he is your brother, why does he have a different name?
my brother sonny found him living in the streets when he was a kid, so my father took him in.  he is a good lawyer.
I am sure it is the most generous gift today.
the senator called--apologized for not coming personally, but said you would understand.  also, some of the judges...they've all sent gifts. and another call from virgil sollozzo.
he is his own boss, and very competent.
and with prison record.
two terms; one in italy, one in the united states.  he is known to the government as a top narcotics man. that could be a plus for us; he could never get immunity to testify.
when did he call?
this morning.
on a day like this.  consiglero, do you also have in your notes the the turk made his living from prostitution before the war, like the tattaglias do now.  write that down before you forget it.  the turk will wait.
it is johnny.  he came all the way from california to be at the wedding.
should i bring him in.
no.  let the people enjoy him.  you see?  he is a good godson.
it is been two years.  he is probably in trouble again.
i did not know your family knew johnny fontane.
sure.
i used to come down to new york whenever he sang at the capitol and scream my head off.
he is my father's godson; he owes him his whole career.
i kept trying to call you after my divorce and tom always said you were busy.  when i got the wedding invitation i knew you were not sore at me anymore, godfather.
can i do something for you still? you are not too rich, or too famous that i can not help you?
I am not rich anymore, godfather, and...my career, I am almost washed up...
the old man wants you; johnny's here...he's got a problem.
okay.  one minute.
all right, hollywood...now tell me about this hollywood pezzonovanta who will not let you work.
he owns the studio.  just a month ago he bought the movie rights to this book, a best seller.  and the main character is a guy just like me.  i would not even have to act, just be myself.
you take care of your family?
sure.
you look terrible.  i want you to eat well, to rest.  and spend time with your family.  and then, at the end of the month, this big shot will give you the part you want.
it is too late.  all the contracts have been signed, they are almost ready to shoot.
I will make him an offer he can not refuse.
when does my daughter leave with her bridegroom?
they will cut the cake in a few minutes...leave right after that. your new son-in-law, do we give him something important?
no, give him a living.  but never let him know the family's business. what else, tom?
I have called the hospital; they have notified consiglere genco's family to come and wait.  he will not last out the night.
will your girl friend get back to the city all right?
tom said he would take care of it.
what was this for?
for bravery.
and this?
for killing a man.
what miracles you do for strangers.
i fought for my country.  it was my choice.
and now, what do you choose to do?
I am going to finish school.
good.  when you are finished, come and talk to me.  i have hopes for you.
mr. corleone is johnny's godfather. that is very close, a very sacred religious relationship.
okay, but just tell him this is one favor i can not give.  but he should try me again on anything else.
he never asks a second favor when he has been refused the first. understood?
you smooth son of a bitch, let me lay it on the line for you, and your boss.  johnny fontane never gets that movie.  i do not care how many dago, guinea, wop greaseball goombahs come out of the woodwork!
I am german-irish.
okay my kraut-mick friend, johnny will never get that part because i hate that pinko punk and I am going to run him out of the movies.  and I will tell you why.  he ruined one of woltz brothers' most valuable proteges.  for five years i had this girl under training; singing lessons!  acting lessons!  dancing lessons!  we spent hundreds of thousands of dollars--i was going to make her a star.  I will be even more frank, just to show you that I am not a hard-hearted man, that it was not all dollars and cents.  that girl was beautiful and young and innocent and she was the greatest piece of ass I have ever ad and I have had them all over the world.  then johnny comes along with that olive oil voice and guinea charm and she runs off.  she threw it all away to make me look ridiculous.  a man in my position cannot afford to be made to look ridiculous!
my business is heroin, i have poppy fields, laboratories in narseilles and sicily, ready to go into production.  my importing methods are as safe as these things can be, about five per cent loss.  the risk is nothing, the profits enormous.
why do you come to me?  why do i deserve your generosity?
i need two million dollars in cash...more important, i need a friend who has people in high places; a friend who can guarantee that if one of my employees be arrested, they would get only light sentences.  be my friend.
what percentages for my family?
thirty per cent.  in the first year your share would be four million dollars; then it would go up.
and what is the percentage of the tattaglia family?
my compliments.  I will take care of them from my share.
so.  i receive 30 per cent just for finance and legal protection.  no worries about operations, is that what you tell me?
if you think two million dollars in cash is just finance, i congratulate you don corleone.
no...how a man makes his living is none of my business.  but this proposition of yours is too risky. all the people in my family lived well the last ten years, i will not risk that out of greed.
are you worried about security for your million?
no.
the tattaglias will guarantee your investment also.
what is this nonsense?
it is from johnny.  it was announced this morning.  he is going to play the lead in the new woltz brothers film.
we have something for your mother, for sonny, we have the tie for fredo and tom hagen gets the reynolds pen...
and what do you want for christmas?
just you.
what will your father say?
as long as i tell him beforehand he will not object.  he will be hurt, but he will not object.
what time do they expect us?
for dinner.  unless i call and tell them we are still in new hampshire.
michael.
then we can have dinner, see a show, and spend one more night.
michael, what are you doing?
shhh, you be the long distance operator.  here.
hello...this is long distance.  i have a call from new hampshire.  mr. michael corleone.  one moment please.
sure.  anything i can do for you.
no.  i guess I will see you christmas. everyone's going to be out at long beach, right?
right.
would you like me better if i were a nun?
no.
would you like me better if i were ingrid bergman?
michael?
I am thinking about it.
michael...
no, i would not like you better if you were ingrid bergman.
yeah.
do you recognize my voice?
i think so.  detective squad?
right.  do not say my name, just listen.  somebody shot your father outside his place fifteen minutes ago.
is he alive?
i think so, but i can not get close enough.  there is a lot of blood. I will try to find out more.
find out anything you can...you got a grand coming.
you heard about your father?
yeah.
the word is out in the streets that he is dead.
where the hell was paulie, why was not he with the don?
paulie's been a little sick all winter...he was home.
how many times did he stay home the last couple of months?
maybe three, four times.  i always asked freddie if he wanted another bodyguard, but he said no.  things have been so smooth the last ten years...
go get paulie, i do not care how sick he is.  pick him up yourself, and bring him to my father's house.
that is all?  do not you want me to send some people over here?
no, just you and paulie.
sonny was hot for my deal, right? you know it is the smart thing to do, too.  i want you to talk sonny into it.
sonny will come after you with everything he is got.
the don was slipping; in the old days i could never have gotten to him.  now he is dead, nothing can bring him back.  talk to sonny, talk to the caporegimes, clemenza and tessio...it's good business.
even sonny will not be able to call off luca brasi.
I will worry about luca.  you take care of sonny and the other two kids.
I will try...it's what the don would want us to do.
good...then you can go...  i do not like violence.  I am a businessman, and blood is a big expense.
i was worried when we could not get in touch with you in that hick town.
how is mom?
good.  she is been through it before. me too.  you were too young to know about it.  you better wait outside; there are some things you should not hear.
i can help you out...
oh no you can't, the old man'd be sore as hell if i let you get mixed up in this.
jesus christ, he is my father, sonny.
theresa.
all right, mikey...who do we have to hit, clemenza or paulie?
what?
one of them fingered the old man.
clemenza?  no, i do not believe it.
you are right, kid, clemenza is okay. it was paulie.
how can you be sure?
on the three days paulie was sick this month, he got calls from a payphone across from the old man's building.  we got people in the phone company.  thank god it was paulie...we'll need clemenza bad.
is it going to be all-out war, like last time?
until the old man tells me different.
then wait, sonny.  talk to pop.
sollozzo is a dead man, i do not care what it costs.  i do not care if we have to fight all the five families in new york.  the tattaglia family's going to eat dirt.  i do not care if we all go down together.
that is not how pop would have played it.
i know I am not the man he was.  but I will tell you this and he will tell you too.  when it comes to real action, i can operate as good as anybody short range.
all right, sonny.  all right.
christ, if i could only contact luca.
is it like they say?  is he that good?
is the hospital covered?
the cops have it locked in and i got my people there visiting pop all the time.  what about the hit list.
what about luca?  sollozzo did not seem worried about luca.  that worries me.
if luca sold out we are in real trouble.
has anyone been able to get in touch with him?
no, and I have been calling all night. maybe he is shacked up.
luca never sleeps over with a broad. he always goes home when he is through.  mike, keep ringing luca's number.
tom, you are the consigliere, what do we do if the old man dies?
without your father's political contacts and personal influence, the corleone family loses half its strength.  without your father, the other new york families might wind up supporting sollozzo, and the tattaglias just to make sure there is not a long destructive war.  the old days are over, this is 1946; nobody wants bloodshed anymore.  if your father dies...make the deal, sonny.
that is easy to say; it is not your father.
i was as good a son to him as you or mike.
oh christ tom, i did not mean it that way.
we are all tired...
ok, we sit tight until the old man can give us the lead.  but tom, i want you to stay inside the mall. you too, mike, no chances.  tessio, you hold your people in reserve, but have them nosing around the city.  the hospital is yours; i want it tight, fool-proof, 24 hours a day.
i tol' you to stay put, paulie...
the guy at the gate's outside...says there is a package...
outside.
sure.
clemenza.  you take care of paulie. i do not ever want to see him again. understood?
understood.
okay, now you can move your men into the mall, replace tessio's people.  mike, tomorrow you take a couple of clemenza's people and go to luca's apartment and wait for him to show.  that crazy bastard might be going after sollozzo right now if he is heard the news.
maybe mike should not get mixed up in this so directly.  you know the old man does not want that.
ok forget it, just stay on the phone.
I will think about it.
drive while you thinking; i wanna get to the city this month!
good for ten men...
ok, go to arthur avenue; I am suppose to call when i found somethin'.
you think we will go for that last place?
maybe, or you gotta know now.
holy cow, i do not got to know nothing.
hello.  kay?
how is your father?
he will be ok.
i love you.
i love you.
yeah kay, I am here.
can you say it?
huh?
tell me you love me.
i can't...
please say it.
look.  I will see you tonight, ok?
ok.
you take care of paulie?
you will not see paulie anymore.  he is sick for good this winter.
where are you going?
to the city.
send some bodyguards.
i do not need them, sonny.  I am just going to see pop in the hospital. also, i got other things.
sollozzo knows mike's a civilian.
ok, but be careful.
visiting hour ends at eight thirty. I will just sit with him; i want to show respect.
can i go to the hospital with you?
i do not think so.  you do not want to end up on page 3 of the daily news.
my parents do not read the daily news.  all right, if you think i shouldn't.  i can not believe the things the papers are printing. I am sure most of it is not true.
i do not think so either.  i better go.
when will i see you again?
i want you to go back to new hampshire...think things over.
when will i see you again?
goodbye.
I am michael corleone--this is my father.  what happened to the detectives who were guarding him?
oh your father just had too many visitors.  it interfered with the hospital service.  the police came and made them all leave just ten minutes ago.  but do not worry.  i look in on him.
you just stand here one minute...
sonny...sonny--jesus christ, I am down at the hospital.  i came down late.  there is no one here.  none of tessio's people--no detectives, no one.  the old man is completely unprotected.
all right, get him in a different room; lock the door from the inside. I will have some men there inside of fifteen minutes.  sit tight, and do not panic.
i will not panic.
you cannot stay here...i'm sorry.
you and i are going to move my father right now...to another room on another floor...can you disconnect those tubes so we can wheel the bed out?
absolutely not!  we have to get permission from the doctor.
you have read about my father in the papers.  you have seen that no one's here to guard him.  now I have just gotten word that men are coming to this hospital to kill him.  believe me and help me.
we do not have to disconnect them, we can wheel the stand with the bed.
mikey, you look beautiful!
cut it out.
the turk wants to talk!  the nerve of that son of a bitch!  after he craps out last night he wants a meet.
was there a definite proposal?
sure, he wants us to send mike to meet him to hear his proposition. the promise is the deal will be so good we can not refuse.
what about that tattaglias?  what will they do about bruno?
part of the deal: bruno cancels out what they did to my father.
we should hear what they have to say.
no, no consiglere.  not this time. no more meetings, no more discussions, no more sollozzo tricks.  give them one message: i want sollozzo.  if not, it is all out war.  we go to the mattresses and we put all the button men out on the street.
the other families will not sit still for all out war.
then they hand me sollozzo.
come on sonny, your father would not want to hear this.  this is not a personal thing, this is business.
and when they shot me father...
yes, even the shooting of your father was business, not personal...
no no, no more advice on how to patch it up tom.  you just help me win.  understood?
i found out about this captain mccluskey who broke mike's jaw. he is definitely on sollozzo's payroll, and for big money. mccluskey's agreed to be the turk's bodyguard.  what you have to understand is that while sollozzo is guarded like this, he is invulnerable.  nobody has ever gunned down a new york police captain.  never.  it would be disastrous.  all the five families would come after you sonny; the corleone family would be outcasts; even the old man's political protection would run for cover.  so just...take that into consideration.
mccluskey can not stay with the turk forever.  we will wait.
we can not wait.  no matter what sollozzo say about a deal, he is figuring out how to kill pop.  you have to get sollozzo now.
the kid's right.
what about mccluskey?
let's say now that we have to kill mccluskey.  we will clear that up through our newspaper contacts later.
go on mike.
they want me to go to the conference with sollozzo.  set up the meeting for two days from now.  sonny, get our informers to find out where the meeting will be held. insist it has to be a public place: a bar or restaurant at the height of the dinner hour.  so I will feel safe.  they will check me when i meet them so i will not be able to carry a weapon; but clemenza, figure out a way to have one planted there for me.  then I will kill them both.
mostly it gives witnesses an excuse to change their identification when we make them see the light.  then you take a long vacation and we catch the hell.
how bad will it be?
probably all the other families will line up against us.  but, it is alright.  these things have to happen once every ten years or so...gets rid of the bad blood. you got to stop 'em at the beginning. like they shoulda stopped hitler at munich, they shoulda never let him get away with that, they were just asking for big trouble...
why do not you stop living like a bum and get this place cleaned up.
what are you, inspecting the barracks?  you ready?  did clemenza tell you be sure to drop the gun right away?
a million times.
sollozzo and mccluskey are going to pick you up in an hour and a half on times square, under the big camels sign.
one of tattaglia's people?
no.  our informer in mccluskey's precinct.  tonight at 8:00 he signed out for louis' restaurant in the bronx.  anyone know it.
i want somebody very good, very safe to plant that gun.  i do not want my brother coming out of that toilet with just his dick in his hand.
the gun will be there.
you are on, kid...i'll square it with mom your not seeing her before you left.  and I will get a message to your girl friend when i think the time is right.
we gotta move...
o.k.  how long do you think before i can come back?
probably a year...
jesus, i do not know...
can you do it mike?
I am glad you came, mike.  i hope we can straighten everything out.  all this is terrible, it is not the way i wanted things to happen at all. it should never have happened.
i want to settle things tonight.  i want my father left alone.
he will not be; i swear to you be my children he will not be.  just keep an open mind when we talk.  i hope you are not a hothead like your brother, sonny.  it is impossible to talk business with him.
we are going to new jersey?
maybe.
most important...i want a sure guarantee that no more attempts will be made on my father's life.
what guarantees can i give you?  i am the hunted one.  I have missed my chance.  you think too highly of me, my friend...i am not so clever...all i want if a truce...
what is it?
is it all right if i go to the bathroom?
kay, we were not expecting you.  you should call...
I have tried calling and writing.  i want to reach michael.
nobody knows where he is.  we know he is all right, but that is all.
what was that?
an accident.  no one was hurt.
listen tom, i let my cab go; can i come in to call another one?
will you give this to him.
if i accept that letter and you told a court of law i accepted it, they would interpret it as my having knowledge of his whereabouts. just wait kay, he will contact you.
will you give this letter to michael.
mama, no.
what is the matter, carlo?
shut up.
pop, they hit us and we hit them back.
we put out a lot of material through our contacts in the newspapers...about mccluskey's being tied up with sollozzo in the drug rackets...things are starting to loosen up.
we will let the old man take it easy for a couple of weeks.  i want to get things going good before he gets better.  what is the matter with you?
you start operating, the five families will start their raids again.  we are at a stalemate sonny, your war is costing us a lot of money.
no more stalemate tom, we got the soldiers, we will match them gun for gun if that is how they want it. they know me for what i am, tom-- and they are scared of me.
yes.  that is true, you are getting a hell of a reputation.
well it is war!  we might not be in this shape if we had a real war- time consiglere, a sicilian.  pop had genco, who do i have?  hey tom, hey...hey.  it is sunday, we are going to have dinner.  do not be sore.
what was that?
your girl friend.  she says she can not make it tonight.  you lousy bastard you have the nerve to give your whores my telephone number. I will kill you, you bastard!
you are staying home.  you are not going out.
ok, ok.  you gonna make me something to eat at least?
the food is on the table.
I am not hungry yet.
eat it, it is on the table.
ba fa goulle.
ba fa goule you!
you filthy guinea spoiled brat. clean it up or I will kick your head in.
like hell i will.
yes, i understand.  I am listening.
you owe the don a service.  in one hour, not before, perhaps later, he will be at your funeral parlor to ask for your help.  be there to greet him.  if you have any objections speak now, and I will inform him.
anything...anything the godfather wishes.
good.  he never doubted you.
the don himself is coming to me tonight?
yes.
what do you wish me to do?
i want you to use all your powers, all your skill, as you love me.  i do not want his mother to see him as he is.
my wife was weeping before she fell asleep, outside my window i saw my caporegimes to the house, and it is midnight.  so, consigliere of mine, i think you should tell your don what everyone knows.
i did not tell mama anything.  i was about to come up and wake you and tell you.  just now.
but you needed a drink first.
yes.
now you have had your drink.
this is tom hagen; I am calling for don corleone, at his request.
yes, i understand I am listening.
you owe the don a service.  he has no doubt that you will repay it.
when i meet with tattaglia's people; should i insist that all his drug middle-men be clean?
mention it, do not insist.  barzini is a man who will know that without being told.
you mean tattaglia.
barzini.
he was the one behind sollozzo?
tattaglia is a pimp.  he could never have outfought santino.  but i was not sure until this day.  no, it was barzini all along.
don tommassino.
michael, why must you do this.  we have been lucky so far, all these months you have been here we have kept your name a secret.  it is from love for your father that I have asked you never to more than an hour from the villa.
calo and fabrizzio are with me; nothing will happen.
you must understand that your father's enemies have friends in palermo.
i know.
where are you going?
corleone.
there is nothing there.  not anymore.
i was told that my grandfather was murdered on its main street; and his murderers came to kill my father there when he was twelve years old.
long ago.  now there is nothing: the men killed each other in family vendettas...the others escaped to america.
don tommassino...i should see this place.
that is your birthright...but michael, use this car.
no...i would like to walk to corleone.
you tell us about america.
how do you know i come from america?
we hear.  we were told you were a pezzonovanta...big shot.
only the son of a pezzonovanta.
hey america!  is she as rich as they say?
yes.
take me to america!  you need a good lupara in america?  you take me, I will be the best man you got.  "oh say, can you seeee...by da star early light..."
hey, beautiful girls!
shhhhh.
you had better bring a few bottles home with you, my friend; you will need help sleeping tonight.
this one could seduce the devil.  a body! and eyes as big and black as olives.
i know about what you mean!
this was a beauty.  right, calo?
beautiful all over, eh?
and hair.  black and curly, like a doll.  and such a mouth.
it is the real thunderbolt, then.
come sunday morning:  my name is vitelli and my house is up there on the hill, above the village.
things went badly in palermo?
the younger men have no respect. things are changing; i do not know what will happen.  michael, because of the wedding, people now know your name.
is that why there are more men on the walls?
even so, i do not think it is safe here anymore.  I have made plans to move you to a villa near siracuse. you must go right away.
what is it?
bad news from america.  your brother, santino.  he has been killed.
get the car.  I will be leaving in ten minutes.  where is calo?
calo is having a cup of coffee in the kitchen.  is your wife coming with you?
no, she is going home to her family. she will join me in a few weeks...
have you thought about a wife?  a family?
no.
i understand, michael.  but you must make a family, you know.
i want children, i want a family. but i do not know when.
accept what is happened, michael.
i could accept everything that is happened; i could accept it, but that i never had a choice.  from the time i was born, you had laid this all out for me.
no, i wanted other things for you.
you wanted me to be your son.
yes, but sons who would be professors, scientists, musicians...and grandchildren who could be, who knows, a governor, a president even, nothing's impossible here in america.
then why have i become a man like you?
you are like me, we refuse to be fools, to be puppets dancing on a string pulled by other men.  i hoped the time for guns and killing and massacres was over.  that was my misfortune.  that was your misfortune.  i was hunted on the streets of corleone when i was twelve years old because of who my father was.  i had no choice.
a man has to choose what he will be. i believe that.
what else do you believe in?
why did not moe green meet us at the airport?
he had business at the hotel, but he will drop in for dinner.
you look wonderful, kid; really wonderful.  that doctor did some job on your face.
you look good, too.
ever seen anything like that before?
no.
mike!  the party starting!
come here a minute, fredo.
who are those girls?
that is for you to find out.
give them some money and send them home.
mike!
get rid of them...
mike, you sure about moe selling. he never mentioned it to me and he loves the business.
I will make him an offer he can not refuse.
mike, good to see you.  got everything you want?
thanks.
the chef cooked for you special; the dancers will kick your tongue out and you credit is good!  draw chips for all these people so they can play on the house.
is my credit good enough to buy you out?
buy me out?...
the hotel, the casino.  the corleone family wants to buy you out.
the corleone family wants to buy me out.  i buy you out.  you do not buy me out.
your casino loses money.  maybe we can do better.
you think i scam?
you are unlucky.
you goddamn dagos.  i do you a favor and take freddie in when you are having a bad time, and then you try to push me out.
you took freddie in because the corleone family bankrolled your casino.  you and the corleone family are evened out.  this is for business; name your price.
the corleone family do not have that kind of muscle anymore.  the godfather is sick.  you are getting chased out of new york by barzini and the other families, and you think you can find easier pickings here.  I have talked to barzini; i can make a deal with him and keep my hotel!
is that why you thought you could slap freddie around in public?
you straightened my brother out?
hell, he was banging cocktail waitresses two at a time.  players could not get a drink.
i have to go back to new york tomorrow.  think of your price.
you son of a bitch, you think you can brush me off like that?  i made my bones when you were going out with cheerleaders.
tom, you are the consigliere; you can talk to the don and advise him.
the don has semi-retired.  I am running the family business now. so anything you have to say, say it to me.
i have to see my father and his people when we get back to the mall.
oh michael.
we will go to the show tomorrow night--we can change the tickets.
do not you want dinner first?
no, you eat...don't wait up for me.
wake me up when you come to bed?
your sister wants to ask you something.
let her ask.
why are you so cold to her and carlo?  they live with us on the mall now, but you never get close to them.
I am busy.
connie and carlo want you to be godfather to their little boy.
will you?
let me think about it, o.k.?
barzini's people chisel my territory and we do nothing about it.  pretty soon there will not be one place in brooklyn i can hang my hat.
just be patient.
I am not asking you for help, mike. just take off the handcuffs.
be patient.
we gotta fight sometime.  let us at least recruit our regimes to full strength.
no, i do not want to give barzini an excuse to start fighting.
he is going to be our lawyer in vegas.  nobody goes to him with any other business as of now, this minute.  no reflection on tom; that is the way i want it.  besides, if i ever need any advice, who is a better consigliere than my father.
then in a six month time we are on our own; is that it?
maybe less...
let us fill up our regimes.
no.  i want things very calm for another six months.
forgive me, godfather, let our years of friendship be my excuse. how can you hope for success there without your strength here to back you up?  the two  go hand in hand. and with you gone from here the barzini and the tattaglias will be too strong for us.
understood.  i just wish i was doing more to help out.
I will come to you when i need you.
mike, why are you cutting me out of the action?
tom, we are going to be legitimate all the way, and you are the legal man.  what could be more important than that.
I am not talking about that.  I am talking about rocco lampone building a secret regime.  why does neri report directly to you, rather than through me or a caporegime?
i told you that it would not escape his eye.
how did you find out?
bookkeepers know everything. rocco's men are all a little too good for the jobs they are supposed to be doing.  they get a little more money than the job's worth.  lampone's a good man; he is operating perfectly.
not so perfectly if you noticed.
mike, why am i out?
you are not a wartime consigliere. things may get tough with the move we are trying.
ok, but then i agree with tessio. you are going about it all wrong; you are making the move out of weakness... barzini's a wolf, and if he tears you apart, the other families will not come running to help the corleones...
tom, i never thought you were a bad consigliere, i thought santino a bad don, rest in peace.  he had a good heart but he was not the right man to head the family when i had my misfortune.  michael has all my confidence, as you do.  for reasons which you can not know, you must have no part in what will happen.
maybe i can help.
i see you have your luca brasi.
I will need him.
there are men in this world who demand to be killed.  they argue in gambling games; they jump out of their cars in a rage if someone so much as scratches their fender. these people wander through the streets calling out "kill me, kill me."  luca brasi was like that. and since he was not scared of death, and in fact, looked for it...i made him my weapon.  because i was the only person in the world that he truly hoped would not kill him.  i think you have done the same with this man.
barzini will move against you first.
how?
he will get in touch with you through someone you absolutely trust.  that person will arrange a meeting, guarantee your safety...
your wife and children...you're happy with them?
yes.
good.
barzini wants to arrange a meeting. says we can straighten any of our problems out.
he talked to you?
i can arrange security.
christ, tom; i needed more time with him.  i really needed him.
did he give you his politicians?
not all...i needed another four months and i would have had them all.  i guess you have figured it all out?
how will they come at you?
i know now.  I will make them call me don.
have you agreed on a meeting?
a week from tonight.  in brooklyn on tessio's ground, where I will be safe.
do you pledge to guide and protect this child if he is left fatherless? do you promise to shield him against the wickedness of the world?
yes, i promise.
do you renounce satan.
i do renounce him.
and all his works?
i do renounce them.
do you wish to be baptized?
i do wish to be baptized.
jesus, connie...sure, mike...
go back to your house and wait for me...
godfather!
you have to answer for santino.
you fingered sonny for the barzini people.  that little farce you played out with my sister.  did barzini kid you that would fool a corleone?
i swear I am innocent.  i swear on the head of my children, I am innocent.  mike, do not do this to me, please mike, do not do this to me!
barzini is dead.  so is philip tattaglia, so are strachi, cuneo and moe greene...i want to square all the family accounts tonight. so do not tell me you are innocent; admit what you did.
do not be frightened.  do you think I would make my sister a widow?  do you think I would make your children fatherless?  after all, I am godfather to your son.  no, your punishment is that you are out of the family business.  I am putting you on a plane to vegas--and i want you to stay there.  I will send connie an allowance, that is all. but do not keep saying you are innocent; it insults my intelligence and makes me angry.  who approached you, tattaglia or barzini?
barzini.
good, good.  leave now; there is a car waiting to take you to the airport.
michael, it is not true.  please tell me.
do not ask me.
tell me!
all right, this one time I will let you ask about my affairs, one last time.
is it true?
