resentful.
when you have a lot of time to think, it is funny who you remember.  it is the people who challenged you.  it is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning.  i never told you how sorry i was about what happened after we returned.
i did not know you -- were not well.
it is the lawyers.  the lawyers are finally killing me.
they do have motives.  why did you want to see me?  your message said it was urgent.
you were right -- and i was wrong. there!  did you ever think you would hear me say that?  spectacularly wrong. instead of observing those animals, i tried to control them.  i squandered an opportunity and we still know next to nothing about their lives.  not their lives as man would have them, behind electric fences, but in the wild.  behavior in their natural habitat, the impossible dream of any paleontologist.  i could have had it, but i let it slip away.  thank god for site b.
what?
well?  did not it all seem a trifle compact to you?
what are you talking about?
the hatchery, in particular?  you know my initial yields had to be low, far less than one percent, that is a thousand embryos for every single live birth.  genetic engineering on that scale implies a giant operation, not the spotless little laboratory i showed you.
i do not believe you.
isla nublar was just a showroom, ian, something for the tourists, site b was the factory floor.  we built it first, on isla sorna, eight-some miles from nublar.
no, no, no, no, no, no . . .
after the accident at the park, a hurricane wiped out our facility on site b.  we had to evacuate and leave the animals to fend for themselves. and they did.  for four years I have fought to keep them safe from human meddling, now i want you to go there and document them.
are you out of your mind?  i still have nightmares, my reputation's a joke, my leg is shot -- you think i need more of that?
it would be the most extraordinary living fossil record the world has ever seen.
so what?
I have been putting this together for over a year.  i have personal suggestions for your entire team, phone numbers, contact people.  they will not believe you about what they are going to see, so do not bother trying to convince them.  just use my checkbook to get them there. I will fund your expedition through my personal accounts, as such money and equipment as you need, but only if you leave immediately.  if we hesitate, all will be lost.
john . . .
you will need an animal behaviorist, someone with unimpeachable credentials.  i believe you already know sarah harding.  she is got theories about parenting and nurturing among hunter/scavengers i bet she would be dying to prove on a scale like this.  if you convince her to go, it will be a major coup.  when she publishes, the scientific community must take it seriously.
I am not going, john.
ian, you are my last chance to give something of real value to the world. i can not walk so far and leave no footprints; die and leave nothing with my name on it.  i will not  be known only for my failures.  and you will not allow yourself to go down in history as a lunatic.  you are too smart.  you'e too proud.  dr. malcolm.  please.  this is a chance at redemption.  for both of us. there is no time to equivocate, we must seize it now, before --
so, you two were just, uh, telling old campfire stories, were you?
do me a favor.  do not pretend for a second that you and i do not know the truth.  you can convince time magazine and the skeptical inquirer of whatever you want, but i was there.
you signed a non-disclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw.  you violated that agreement.
you cost me my livelihood.  that on which i relied to support my children.
if your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to hard copy, i hardly see how i am to--
i did not tell anything, i told the truth.
you version of it.
there are no versions of the truth! this is not a corporate maneuver, it is my life.
we made a generous compensatory offer for your injuries.
it was a payoff and an insult.  ingen never--
ingen is my livelihood, dr. malcolm, and i will jealously defend its interests.  people will know what i want them to know when i want them to know it.
how did you know?
that cheap aftershave i send you every christmas, you actually wear it.  I am touched.  sit down, sit down, what brings you to mombassa?
you.  tell me, roland, when was the last time you answered your phone?
last time i plugged it in, i suppose. why?
i got a call from a gentleman who is going to costa rica, or thereabouts. if he is to be believed, it is a most, uh, unique expedition.  and very well-funded.
well, I am a very well-funded old son of a bitch.  you go.
but alone?  we always had great success together, you and i.
just a little bit too much, i think.
how do you mean?
a true hunter does not mind if the animal wins.  if it escapes.  but there were not enough escapes from you and me, ajay.  I have decided to spend a bit less time in the company of death.  maybe i just feel too close to it my--
sorry.  we were saying?
you broke that idiot's jaw for no reason other than your boredom.  tell the truth, roland.  are not you even interested in knowing this expedition's quarry?
ajay.  go on up to my ranch, take a look around the trophy room, and tell me what kind of quarry you think could possibly be of any interest to me.
any damage?
minimal.
"minimal" is too much.   it has to be light, it has to be strong --
light and strong, light and strong, sure, why not, it is only impossible. god save me from academics.
you are an academic.
former academic.  now i actually make things.  i do not just talk.
you think I am all talk, eddie?
it does not matter what i think.
is there anything we have forgotten? anything at all?
hi, dad.
kelly!  what are you doing here?
okay, karen is expecting you in half an hour.  you only have to stay with her one night, she will put you on a bus in the morning and your mother will be at the station when you get there.
i do not even know this woman.
well, i do, and she is fantastic. she will take you to the museum, maybe to a movie if you play your cards right.  you are going to have a fantastic time.
stop saying fantastic.  where are you going?
i can not tell you.  but I will be back within a week.
my vacation is over in a week.
I will make it up to you this summer. i promise.
I am your daughter all the time, you know.  not just when it is convenient.
very hurtful.  your mother tell you to say that?
no, dad.  i have thoughts of my own once in a while.
is that kid still bothering you?
which one?
you know, at the bus stop.  with the hair?
that was about a year ago.
well, is he?
no.  richard talked to his parents.
that richard.
i could come with you.
out of the question.  you would miss the gymnastics trials.  you have been training for that for a year.
i do not care about the trials, i want to be with you.  i could be your research assistant, like i was in austin.
this is nothing like austin.  forget about it.
you like to have kids, you just do not want to be with them, do you?
so what is your story, nick?
i was a cameraman for nightline for six years, been freelance since '91. do a lot of work for greenpeace.
that must be interesting.  what drew you there?
women.  'bout eighty percent female in greenpeace.
very noble of you.  you do not think you are bringing that thing onto the island, do you?
hey, i would not want to spook the woolly mammoths.
you think this is all a joke?
oh, please.  how am i supposed to keep a straight face when --  -- johnny cash here tells me I am going to skull island?
ian's a very good friend of mine.
he does not need a friend, he needs a shrink.
i believe in him.
is there an antidote?
like if you shoot yourself in the foot?  would not matter.  you would be dead  before you realized you would accidentally pulled the trigger.
oh --
-- my --
that was a pair bond!  a family group, even, long after that infant was nestbound!
i want to see the nesting ground!
the empty shells are crushed and trampled.  the young stay in the birth environment, that is conclusive!
not without a shot of the nest.
she is gutty.
she is nuts.
ian, you are not insane!  I am so glad!
dr. malcolm -- the world -- owes you an apology.
no more smoking.  we leave no scent of any kind.  no hair tonics, no cologne, seal all our food in plastic bags.  we will observe and document, but we will not interact.
that is a scientific impossibility, you know.  heisenberg uncertainty principle.  whatever you study, you also change.
and let's forget about the high hide. we can not do this kind of work up in a tower, we need to be out in the field, as close to the animals as possible.
I am not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there is never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did.
why would not they?  look at hyenas, jackals, nearly all species of predator birds --
that does not say a thing about t-rex, they could have been rogues.  robert burke certainly thinks they were.
we have got to see one to find out. is there any --
no way.
oh, my god.
-- way we could safely --
oh, no!
you know you were putting yourself in a potentially dangerous situation, but you did not bother to find out how dangerous before you leapt in. you do not have the faintest idea what is going on on this island!
what do you want to do, ian, lock her up for curiosity?  where do you think she gets it?
do you have chromium tapes?  the others fog in high-
-humidity, i know.  highest lead density on the market.
you are going home.  I am sending a radio call for the boats.  we will all go down to the lagoon and wait for them.
lighten up, ian, you sound like a high school vice-principal.
I am her father.
do you see any family resemblance here?
you can not stay, kelly, that is it. it is too dangerous.
how could you possibly?
because you said so.  maybe nobody else believed you, but i always did.
the kid scores with cheap sentiment.
ian, if we recall the boat now, we have made two invasive landings in one day.  that will have to go in any paper i write, and it will leave room for people to say our findings were contaminated.  you know the academic world as well as i do, once they smell blood in the water, you are dead.  our presence has got to be one hundred percent antiseptic.  that means if we bend a blade of grass, we bend it right back the way it-
cancel that, dieter.
what?  why?
carnivores hunt near stream beds.  do you want to set up base camp or an all-you-can-eat people bar?
you heard his, dieter.  find a new spot.  and remember, we are after herbivores only -- no unnecessary risks.
peter, if you want me to run your little camping trip, there are two conditions.  first -- I am in charge, and when I am not around, dieter is.  your job is to sign the checks, tell us we are doing a good job, and open your case of scotch when we have a good day.  second condition -- my fee.  you can keep it.  all i want in exchange for my services is the right to hunt one of the tyrannosaurs.  a male.  buck only.  why and how are my business. if you do not  like either of those conditions, you are on your own.  go ahead and set up your camp right here, or in a swamp, or in the middle of a rex nest, for all i care.  but I have been on too many safaris with rich dentists to listen to any more suicidal ideas.  okay?
okay.
good lad.
it matches the pictures.
it certainly does.
where do you think you are going?!
to collect my fee.
why did not you tell us about these guys, ian?!
because i did not know!  i do not have the faintest idea what they are doing here.
ruining everything, that is what they are doing.  you could choke on the diesel smoke already!
ian, nothing we observe will be valid if we are trailing along in the wake of an army.
"ingen."  what is ingen?
where does it say that?
on the side of that one truck.
ingen is a genetics corporation, is not it?
is that who we are really working for?!  gene splicers?!
no!  we are an independently funded expedition.
funded by whom?
john hammond.
but he is the head of ingen!
you got to be kidding.  you dragged me out of greenpeace to be a corporate stooge?  you could not get anybody else?
make a blind here?  wait for the buck to return?
if the nest is upwind, so are we. when he comes back, he will know we are here before we have a chance.  the truck --
then this is our chance.
our chance to do what?
i do not know these guys, but i know 'em.  I have seen 'em on japanese whalers, french barges trying to dump barrels of nuclear waste in the north atlantic.  they are all the same. they spray us with water cannon when we try to stop 'em, sink our boats, and then call us crazy.
there' no reason for name calling.
dr. juttson, please take kelly back to camp right away.  leave the other car for us and we will meet you there in an hour or so.
what are you guys gonna do?
exactly what john hammond wanted us to do.
what kind of gun is that?
my father's .600 nitro express.  made in 1904.  karimojo bell gave it to him after he took down his last elephant.  8700 foot pound striking force.
how close do you have to be?
forty yards.  less, maybe.  i assume it will take a slug in the brain case to bring him down.
why not just use a scope and a poison dart and snipe him from a hill?
you rally think this'll draw the parent?
i once saw a bull elephant die charging a jeep.  all the jeep had done was startle the bull's calves. i saw a lioness carry wounded prey four and a half miles, all the way back to its den, just to teach its cubs how to finish off a kill.
killing lessons?  heartwarming.
rex will not be any different.  it will come.
you are kidding yourself.  an adult t-rex cares about one thing -- filling its own belly.  it acts the way people wish they could, that is why everyone's fascinated by it.  if people had the chance to see one dinosaur and one only, ninety-nine percent would --
what?
i had not planned on bringing carnivores back because of the liability risk, but i only thought of adults, it never occurred to me --  you are a billion dollar idea, my little f-
had to.  to keep him still for the trip.
you have broken its leg!
we have got to transport it seven thousand miles.  would you prefer it bit off the leg of a crew member?
what in christ's name is going on?!
is not it obvious?
?!
it has a broken leg!
so do it a favor and put it out of its misery!
no!  get in the car before they hear us!
that little black line?
that little black line means death for this infant.  the fibula will not heal straight, so the ankle joint can not pivot when he stands on his hind feet.  the baby will not be able to run, and probably can not even walk. it will be crippled, and a predator will pick it off before it gets more than a few weeks old.
can you set up?
it has to be temporary, something that will break apart and fall off as the animal grows...
think fast, sarah.
give it more morphine!
we will kill it with too much, we will put it into respiratory arrest!  I am almost done.  damn it, i need another adhesive, something pliable i can --
hold it down, nick!
I am trying!
what do they want?!
what do you think they want?!
that is impossible, they can not have the sensory equipment to track it all the way here!
current evidence seems to be to the contrary, would not you say?!  give it to them!
born free, as free as the wind blows. as free as the grass grows --
are you insane?!
i swear to god, it works with lions sometimes!  there we are -- your baby is free --
there's, uh -- there is an unwritten rule when a news crew is in a war zone.  you stop the van every two miles and decide whether or not to go on.  whether or not you feel lucky. one "no" from anybody in the group and you turn around right there, no question asked, nobody embarrassed.  well?  do we go on? immediately:
no.
no.
no way.
all right.  I am satisfied with the evidence we have right now. i feel vindicated.  john hammond will too.  do you have enough to publish?
they will come after me.  but i can collect some stool samples, for dna with that, nick's tapes, and the rest of you to back me up, it should stand when we get back.
then the only thing left to do is make sure we do get back.  I will call the mainland on the satellite phone and have them send the boat right now.  this expedition is over.
oh, god.
what?!
they are pushing us over the cliff.
are you all right?!  anything broken?
I am fine, I am fine, i was scared, i thought you, are you okay?!
I am fine... I am fine...
trespassing, sabotage -- you could go to jail just for being here, did you know that?
do not start a legal argument with me, this island is not your property, and neither are these animals!
are you looking for a problem?
everyone, keep your voices down!
their what?
oh, god.
hey, we came here to observe, you came here to strip-mine the place! it is a looter mentality, all you care about is what you can take.
none of that matters.  our communications equipment's been destroyed.  if your radio and satellite phone were in those trailers that went off the cliff, and I am guessing by the look on his face --
if we can not stay in the rex's territory, we have to move tonight.
move where?  our boat's not coming for two days, your airlift is waiting for an order you have no way to send --
what is?
the velociraptors.
no.  I am quite certain you can't.
look, we have two choices.  we can hike back down to the lagoon, where we can sit for two days, in the open, next to a heavily used water source while we are waiting for your boat to arrive, or we can head for the village, where we might find some shelter and we can call for help.
we would never make it past the raptors. trust me, i have some experience in this matter.
you ever heard of gambler's ruin?
what is that?
a statistical phenomenon.  says everything in the world goes in streaks.  it is real, you see it everywhere -- in weather, in river flooding, in baseball, in blackjack, in stock markets.  once things go bad, they tend to stay bad.  bad things cluster.  they go to hell together.
feeling a bit blue, are we?
just -- flawed.  very deeply flawed.
why did you come here?
so that others would know about this place?
why should they?
because it exists.
it will still exit if they go on not knowing, will not it?
yes.  and people will live in the absence of truth.
so the truth is more important to you than your life?
i do not care about my life.  but if I would ever thought for a second that she would be in danger --
somewhere on this island, there exits the greatest predator that ever lived.  and the second greatest predator must take him down.
but why?
you remember that guy, about twenty years ago, i forget his name, but he climbed everest without any oxygen, came down almost dead.  and they asked him, "why did you go up there to die?"  and he said "i didn't.  i went up there to live."
it is called self-testing.  but in your case, it sounds more like self-destruction.  a uniquely human characteristic.  in fact, human beings destroy things so well that i sometimes think that is our function. maybe every few sons, some animal comes along that kills off the rest of the world, clears the decks, and lets evolution proceed to his next phase.  maybe death and destruction are our job, maybe we are supposed to destroy ourselves and every other living thing that-
you know, even if we do get those tapes back, people are going to say it is just another hoax.  ian malcolm's alien autopsy.
maybe.  maybe not.
ian, they will misplace our evidence, shoot holes in our testimony, and say some special effects genius created the animals.  the only way people will ever believe that dinosaurs exist is if you dump a t-rex in the middle of times square.
we have to send someone to look for him!
you go if you like, but we are not waiting for you.  move it out!!
you hear something?
no.  i feel something.
what are you-
jump!
how many rounds did you find for that weapon?
four, counting the one in the chamber.
do not let it out of your hands again.  can the kid walk?
ask her.
can the kid walk?
what is that?
piss.
where is the power and radio setup?
operations building.  far end of the street.
lava?
no.
what are they?
i do not know.
the radio rig is inside.  it runs directly from the geothermal generator, so power should not be a problem.
good.
what is he got in there?
piss.
what?
do not ask me.  the guy's completely out to lunch.
you have got to be kidding.
runs against my nature to hole up in a cave and wait.
do you think the rex might have the infant with it?
possible.
you know how to work a radio, do not you?
you are going too?
i lost everything i came after on this trip, but one t-rex in one theme park could single-handedly bail ingen out of chapter 11.
you gentlemen feel you have to do this now?
now's the perfect time.  the animal just fed, so it will not stalk us for food.  predators do not hurt when they are not hungry.
we took to the rock.
why?
it's... behind... us.
it is just fed.  it will not attack unless it is threatened.  do not move.
if i do not move, i can not shoot it.
let it go, peter.  the animal won.
ian.  it is guano.
what?
these formations.  they are dried --
birdshit?
come on!
where is kelly?
she is with sarah!
we can not stay in here!
we are sure as hell not going back out there"
this is single-wall construction! it is just a shack!
it will hold!
for sixty seconds, maybe!  look at this!  you could-
head for the roof!
i have to find kelly!
i think she is with sarah!
damn it, be sure!!
something is wrong.
look!  sarah!
dad!
come on!
where is kelly?
where is ian?
