how are you, keaton?
I would have to say my spine was broken, keyser.
ready?
what time is it?
now remember, this is another kind of business. they do not earn your respect. you owe it to them. do not stare them down but do not look away either. confidence. they are fools not to trust you. that is the attitude.
I am having a stroke.
you have come far. you are a good man. i love you.
let's say for example -
this i had to see myself.
i know you. you do not think i know you are on the take. this whole fucking precinct is dirty. you do not have a fucking leg to stand on.
hockney was just a bad bastard. good with explosives. mean as a snake when it mattered .
with what?
you know damn well, dead-man.
hey, that was your mistake, not mine. did you ever think to ask me? I have been
you are fuckin' a right, no p.c. well screw p.c. no right. no goddamn right. you do some time, they never let you go. treat me like a criminal, I will end up a criminal.
you are a criminal.
why you got to go and do that? I am trying to make a point.
you heard right.
the word i got is you hung up your spurs, man. what is that all  about?
I would say you have gotten on his main and central nerve, mcmanus.
do your friend a favor, fenster, keep him quiet .
forget him. it is not important. i was trying to make a point.
this whole thing was a shakedown.
how many times have you been in a line- up? it is always you and four dummies. the p.d. pays homeless guys ten bucks a head half the time. no way they would line five felons in the same row. no way. and what the hell is a voice line-.up? a public defender could get you off of that.
so why the hell was i hauled in and cavity searched tonight?
it was the feds. a truck load of guns gets snagged, customs comes down on n.y.p.d. for some answers - they come up with us. they are grabbing at straws. it is politics - nothing you can do.
i had a guy's fingers in my asshole tonight.
fuck you. i'11 never shit right again. so who did it? own up.
i do not want to know.
he is alright.
how do i know that? how about it, pretzel-man? what is your story?
his name is verbal kint. i thought you guys knew him.
roger really. people say i talk too much.
yeah, i was gonna tell you to shut up.
we have met once or twice. last time was in...
county. i was in for fraud.
you were waiting for a line-up then, too. what happened with that?
i walked. ninety days, suspended.
why do not you just calm down'
what do you care what he says?
my client offers his full cooperation in these proceedings. in exchange, his testimony is to be sealed and all matters incriminating to himself are to be rendered inadmissible.
the district attorney's office will comply provided -
no provisions, nothing. my clients testimony for his immunity.
may-i be frank, counselor? i suspect your political power as much as i respect it. i do not know why mr. kint has so many faceless allies in city hall, and i do not care. the embarrassment he helped cause the city of new york will not happen here.
immunity.
counselor, i will prosecute your client.
then prosecute. i will be very impressed to see if the district attorney manages to bring in twenty-seven simultaneous counts of murder against one man with cerebral palsy. i would think a man with your job would agree with these alleged &quot;faceless people in city hall&quot; you mention.
i'11 take my chances then. i'11 feel safer without a job if a man like mr. kint is behind bars.
mr. kint will plead guilty to weapons possession.
you are joking.
weapons. misdemeanor one.
counselor, you are insulting me.
counselor, you are bluffing. shall i push for misdemeanor two?
what do you mean i can not see him?
the d.a. came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county. kint's lawyer comes in and five minutes later, the d.a. comes out looking like he would been bitch-slapped by the boogey man. they took his statement and cut him a deal.
did they charge him with anything?
weapons. misdemeanor two.
what'the fuck is that?
when does he post bail?
two hours, tops.
i want to see him.
even if i was to let you talk to him, he will not talk to you. he is paranoid about being recorded and he knows the interrogation rooms are wired
this will not be an' interrogation, just a... friendly chat to kill time.
he will not go into the interrogation room.
someplace else, then.
where?
no, no, no, no, no.
if it was a dope deal, where is the dope, if it was a hit, who called it in?
and i am sure you have a host of wild                   + theories to answer these questions.
you know damn well what i think.
that is crazy, dave and it does not matter. he has total immunity and his story checks out. he does not know what you want to know.
i do not think he does. not exactly, but there is a lot more to his story. i want to know why twenty-seven men died on that pier for what looks to be ninety-one million dollars worth of dope that was not there. above all, i want to be sure that dean keaton is dead.
verbal, you know we are trying to help you.
sure. and i appreciate that. and i want to help you, agent kujan. i like cops. i would have liked to have been a fed myself but my c.p. was -
verbal, i know you know something. i know you are not telling us everything.
i told the d.a. everything i know.
i know you liked keaton i know you think he was a good man.
i know he was good.
he was a corrupt cop, verbal.
sure. fifteen years ago, but he was a good thief anyway, the cops would not let him go legit.
keaton was a piece of shit.
you trying to get a rise out of me, agent kujan?
i just want to hear your story.
according to your statement you are a short-con operator. run of the mill seams. everything you do, you learned from somebody else.
that is been suppressed. anything in there is inadmissible.
oh, i know. sweet deal you have. total immunity .
well i do have the weapons charge. I am looking at six whole months hard time.
you know a dealer named ruby deemer, verbal?
you know a religious guy named john paul?
you know ruby is in attica?
he did not have my lawyer.
i know ruby. he is very big on respect. likes me very much.
there is nothing in there about ruby.
i'11 be sure to mention that to him.
the first thing i learned on the job, know what it was? how to spot a murderer. let's say you arrest three guys for the same killing. put them all in jail overnight. the next morning, whoever is sleeping is your man. if you are guilty, you know you are caught, you get some rest - let your guard down, you follow?
no.
i'11 get right to the point. I am smarter than you. i'11 find out what i want to know and i'11 get it from you whether you like it or not.
I am not a rat.
...and the desk sergeant is actually trying to tell me he can not release you? can you believe that? you were not even charged. new york police - jesus. i want to take pictures of your face to bring to the d.a. first thing in the morning.
just forget about it.
i'11 have this thing in front of a grand jury by monday.
edie, please. i do not want to hear this right now. what did renault and fortier say?
they want more time to think about investing.
goddamnit.
they just said they wanted time.
time for what, edie? time to look into me a little more, that is what. no matter how well you cover my tracks now, they will find out who i am.
give me some credit. i got you this far, let's go to the grand jury. this is never going to stop if we -
no. it is never going to stop, period. it will not take more than a week before every investor in this city is walking away from us. it is finished. I am finished.
do not give up on me now, dean.
they will never stop.
i love you.
they ruined me tonight.
dean, i love you. do you hear me?
come home, dean.
alright.
how do you do?
verb - roger, this is edie finneran. edie, this is roger kint, he was at
i know who he is.
i hope i did not disturb you.
i hope so, too, mr. kint. can i get you something to drink?
a glass of water would be nice.
what the hell do you want?
i wanted to talk to you. the other guys -
i did you a favor by standing up for you last night, but do not think we are friends. I am sorry, but i have other things -
they are going to do a job. three million dollars, maybe more.
so what is it you do, mr. kint?
umm ...
a hijacker like dean, here? or something more creative?
that is enough, edie.
i do not know what you came here for, but we will not have any part of it.
edie, please.
get out.
if you will just let me -
do not hurt me.
hurt you, you sonofabitch? i could kill you.
they - that is bullshit. they do not operate anymore.
mcmanus has a friend in the fourteenth precinct. they are coming out for one job - thursday. they are picking up a guy smuggling emeralds out of south america. fenster and mcmanus have a fence set to take the stuff.
what fence? who?
some guy in california. his name is redfoot.
never heard of him.
you have to come.
what is with you? what do you care whether i come or not?
they - they do not know me. you do. they will not take me unless you go. look at me. i need this.
tough break.
do not tell me you do not need this. is this your place?
you watch your mouth.
okay, okay. you say it is the real thing? that is cool.
i was out of line.
you okay?
i'11 be alright.
well, I am sorry.
forget it.  i'11 probably shit blood tonight.
how are they going to do it?
mcmanus wants to go in shooting. i said no way.
fenster and hockney?
they are pretty pissed off. they will do anything. now i got a way to do it without killing anyone: but like i said, they will not let me in without you.
three million?
maybe more.
no killing?
not if we do it my way.
I am sure you can understand my hesitation.
then who goes?
we all go. how about it, keaton?
we will make it.
do not do this. send her a card - something.
we will make it.
heartwarming. really, i feel weepy.
you wanted to know what happened after the line-up, I am telling you.
oh come on, verbal. who do you think you are talking to? you really expect me to believe he retired? for a woman? bullshit. he was using her.
he loved her.
sure. and I am supposed to believe that hitting the taxi service was not his idea
that was all fenster and mcmanus.
come on. keaton was a cop for four years. who else would know the taxi service
you keep trying to lay this whole ride on                 t keaton. it was not like that. sure he knew, but edie had him all turned around.                 r I am telling you straight, i swear.                        +
let me tell you something. i know dean keaton. I have been investigating him for three years. the guy i know is a cold-                    + blooded bastard. l.a.p.d. indicted him on three counts of murder before he was kicked off the force, so do not sell me the hooker with the heart of gold.                        +
you got him wrong.
do i? keaton was under indictment a total                 + of seven times when he was on the force.                  + in every case, witnesses either reversed                  + their testimony to the grand jury or died                 + before they could testify. when they                      t finally did nail him for fraud, he spent                  + five years in sing sing. he killed three prisoners inside - one with a knife in the tailbone while he strangled him to death. of course i can not prove this but i can not prove the best part either.
i do not know about that.
i do not think you do. but you say you saw keaton die. i think you are covering his ass and he is still out there somewhere. i think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor. my bet is he is using you because you are stupid and you think he is your friend. you tell me he is dead, so be it. i want to make sure he is dead before i go back to new york.
he was not behind anything. it was the lawyer.
what lawyer?
you think i do not know you held out on the d.a.? what did you leave out of that testimony? i can be on the phone to ruby deemer in ten minutes.
the d.a. gave me immunity.
not from me, you piece of shit. there is no immunity from me. you atone with me or the world you live in becomes the hell you fear in the back of your tiny mind. every criminal i have put in prison,
there was a lawyer. kobayashi.
is he the one that killed keaton?
no. but I am sure keaton's dead.
convince me. tell me every last detail. 52    scene deleted                                                              52 53    int. hospital - day                                                  53                         + kovash's room is now filled with people. jack baer stands next to daniel metzheiser, a balding man in his forties. next to him is doctor plumber. across from her is ridgly waiters.
&lt;&lt;we were there to buy a man and take him back to hungary.&gt;&gt;
he says they were buying it does not make sense. I am sorry, I am a little rusty. they were there to buy something.
not dope. something else. some what?.. he does not knob what they were buying. but not dope... people.
&lt;&lt;i'll tell you everything. i'11 even say it slow enough for you to understand it. just tell this man i want protection. real protection.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;no, no, no. i need a guarantee from the ridiculous man. i am going to be killed. i have seen the devil and looked him in the eye.&gt;&gt;
no good. he needs guarantees. he says... his life is in danger... he has seen the devil... looked him in the eye.
&lt;&lt;keyser soze. keyser sate. I have seen his face. i see it when i close my eyes.&gt;&gt;
he says he knows his face. he sees it when he closes his eyes.
we are on vacation.
I have got a ton of work and no good people.
take your time. enjoy l.a.
a friend of mine in new york tells me you knew spook hollis.
i hear you did time with old spook. yeah, he was a good egg. i used to run a lot of dope for him. fuckin' shame he got shivved.
i shivved him.
better you hear it from me now than somebody else later.
business or personal?
a little of both.
am not it a crime? call if you are interested.
what is it keaton?
something - i do not know.  i ever tell you about the restaurant i wanted to open?
do not move, you fuckers.
right there. freeze.
get a grip. i did not know.
you did not know.
the job got thrown to me by this lawyer.
who is he?
some limey. he is a middle-man for somebody. he does not say and i do not ask.
we want to meet him.
he wants to meet you. he called last night and asked me to set it up. what do i tell him'
tell him we will meet.
so this lawyer...
kobayashi.
came from redfoot.
right.
and why leave this out when you talked to the d.a.?
jack. what are you doing here?
I have been looking all over for you. you still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor?
yeah.
you can stop looking. there was no coke. I have been in l.a. county with a guy they
there was ninety-one million -
we know, but our man says no way on the dope. this hungarian tells me the whole bunch was pulling stumps for turkey the next' day. they had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it.
what was the money for?
he did not know. no one doing the deal knew except a few key people. this guy says they were real hush about it. whatever it was it was highly sensitive.
i do not get it.
they tell me you got the cripple from new york in there. he mention keyser soze
who ?
bear with me here...
my employer requires your services. one job. one day's work. very dangerous. i do not expect all of you to live, but those who do will have ninety-one million dollars to divide any way they see fit.
who is your boss?
my employer wishes to remain anonymous.
do not jerk me off. we all know what this is. you do not work with me if i work with you without knowing who I am working for. now let's cut the shit. who is the man?
i work for keyser sate.
what is this?
who is keyser soze?
you set up the line-up.
mr. soze made a few calls, yes. you were not to be released until i came to see you. it seems mr. keaton's attorney, ms. finneran, was a bit too effective in expediting his release. holding the rest of you became a moot point.
what about redfoot?
mr. redfoot knew nothing. mr. soze rarely                 t works with the same people for very long, and they never know who they are working for. one cannot be betrayed if one has no people.
everybody i ever worked with, did time with.
they fucking know everything.
this is not right.
i do not know. who was that guy that used to talk about soze in new york?
yeah. he said he did jobs for him. indirect stuff. always five times more money than the job was worth.
come on. the guy is a pipe dream. this kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
i do not know. this is bad.
it is bullshit. this guy could be l.a.p.d. i think it is a setup.
the way i hear it, soze is some kind of butcher. no pity.
do you believe in him, verbal?
keaton always said: &quot;i do not believe in god, but I am afraid of him.&quot; well i believe in god, and the only thing that scares me is keyser soze.
i came clean. i told it like it happened on the boat. so what if i left out how i got there? it is got so many holes in it, the d.a. would have told me to blow amnesty out my ass. so you got what you wanted out of me. big fucking deal.
and this is why you never told the d.a.
you tell me, agent kujan. if i told you the loch ness monster hired me to hit the harbor, what would you say?
turn state's evidence. take the stand on this and we will hear it out.
I have got immunity now. what can you possibly offer me?
if there is a keyser soze he will be looking for you.
where is your head, agent kujan? where do you think the pressure's coming from? keyser soze - or whatever you want to call him - knows where i am right now. he is got the front burner under' your ass to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later. immunity was just to deal with you assholes. i got a whole new problem when i post bail.
so why play into his hands? we can protect you.
gee, thanks, dave. bang-up job so far. extortion, coercion. you will pardon me if i ask you to kiss my pucker. the same fuckers that rounded us up and sank us into this mess are telling me they will bail me out? fuck you. you think you can catch keyser soze? you think a guy like that comes this close to getting fingered and sticks his head out? if he comes up for anything, it will be to get rid of me.  after that, my guess is you will never hear from him again.
&lt;&lt;it was smaller than that. sharper.&gt;&gt;
+ the nose is sharper. smaller too.                          +  &lt;&lt;and what about the hair? you said something earlier about it.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;it is longer than that. and not so dark. &gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;are you sure?&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;don't be stupid.&gt;&gt;
he says the hair is longer and lighter.
that was how i ended up in a barber shop quartet in skokie, illinois.
this is totally irrelevant.
oh, but it is not. if i had not been nailed in illinois for running a three card monte in between sets, i never would have took off for new york. i never would have met keaton, see. that barber shop quartet was the reason for everything.
can we just get back to kobayashi?
the quartet is part of the bit about kobayashi. the quartet was in my file, along with every other thing i had done since high school, see? aliases, middle- men. they knew me better than i did. they knew all of us.
you are stalling, verbal.
give a guy a break, huh?
what happened?
then what?
mcmanus was furious. he was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of shit. that night we got the call.
what call?
kobayashi told us where we could find fenster.
keaton, we got to go. they are going to find him.
dig.
what are we gonna do?
i can run. i got no problem with that.
i wanted to. i thought we could make it.
why did not you say anything?
i tried, believe me, but keaton would not have it. it was too far-fetched for him. keaton was a grounded guy. an ex-cop. to a cop, the explanation is never that complicated. it is always simple. there is
the answer is no.
mr. soze will be most -
listen to me, cocksucker. there is no keyser sate. if you say his name again, i'11 kill you right here.
a strange threat. i can only assume you are here to kill me anyway. pity about mr. redfoot.
ahh, mr. hockney. do join us.
we know you can get to us, and now you know we can get to you. I am offering you the chance to call this off.
mr. so- my employer has made up his mind. he does not change it.
neither do we.
i am sorry, mr. mcmanus.  f implore you to believe me, mr. keaton. mr. soze is very real and very                             + determined.
we will see.
what did you say?
edie finneran. she is upstairs in my office for an extradition deposition. i requested she be put on the case personally. she flew out yesterday.
no matter. kill away, mr. mcmanus.
you are lying.
am i? 92 92    int. hallway - fiftieth floor
it is a logistical nightmare. close quarters, no advance layout, ten men, maybe twenty.
can we stealth these guys?
doubtful. with all that coke, they will be ready - which brings me to sunny spot number two. even if one of us gets through and jacks the boat, we get nothing.
me too.
did you hear what he just said?
if I am going in, i want a stake.
what-are they speaking?
russian, i think. i do not know.
hungarian?
keaton, i can not just -
i want you to find edie. both of you find some place safe. tell her what happened - everything. she knows people. she will know what to do. if we can not get kobayashi my way, she will get him her way.
what if i
just do what i tell you.
a boy came across a body on the beach this morning. thrown clear when the boat burned. shot once in the head. two guys from the f.b.i. just identified him.                     +
and ?
his name was arturo marquez. a petty smuggler out of argentina. he was arrested in new york last year for trafficking. he escaped to california and got picked up in long beach. they were setting up his extradition when he escaped again. get this - edie finneran was called in to advise the proceedings.
kobayashi.
keyser soze
there is more.
a man in a suit with a slim build. tall.
wait a minute.
i do not have a minute. are you saying it was keyser soze? you told the d.a. you did not know who it was.
do not shine me, verbal. no more stalling. you know what I am getting at.
i don't.
yes you do. you know what I am getting at. the truth. try to tell me you did not know. try to tell me you saw someone kill keaton .
try to reef lying to me now. i know everything .
i do not know what you are talking about.
you know. you have known this whole fucking time. give it to me.
i do not understand what you are saying. i saw keaton get shot, i swear to you.
then why did not you help him?
i was afraid, okay? somehow, i was sure it was keyser soze at that point. i could not bring myself to raise my gun to him.
but keaton...
it was keyser soze, agent kujan. i mean the devil himself. how do you shoot the devil in the back?
he was a stool pigeon for the justice department. he swore out a statement to federal marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one keyser soze and had intimate knowledge of his business, including, but not exclusive to, drug trafficking and murder.
i never heard of him.
his own people were selling him to a gang of hungarians. most likely the same hungarians that sate all but wiped out back in turkey. the money was not there for dope. the hungarians were going to buy the one guy that could finger soze for them.
i said i never heard of him.
but keaton had. edie finneran was his extradition advisor. she knew who he was and what he knew.
i do not
there were no drugs on that boat. it was a hit. a suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger keyser soze so sate had a few thieves put to it. men he knew he could march into certain death.
but how - wait. you are saying soze sent                  t us to kill someone?
verbal, he left you behind for a reason. if you all knew soze could find you anywhere, why was he ready to send you off with the money when he could have used you to take the boat?
he wanted me to live.
why did he want you to live? a one-time dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless rat-cripple? no, sir. why'
edie.
i do not buy that reform story for a minute. and even if i did, i certainly do not believe he would send you to protect her. so why?
because he was my friend.
no, verbal. you were not friends. keaton did not have friends. he saved you because he wanted it that way. it was his will.
no...
keaton was keyser soze
no.
no, no, no, no, no.
the kind of man that could have killed edie finneran.
edie...
he used all of you to get him on that boat. he could not get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man. the one man that could identify him.
this is all bullshit.
he left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead. you saw him die, right? or did you? you had to hide when the first police cars showed up. you heard the shot, just before the fire but you did not see him die.
i knew him. he would never -
he programmed you to tell us just what he wanted you to. customs has been
if he is dead, verbal - if what you say is true, then it will not matter. it was his idea to hit the taxi service in new york, was not it? tell me the truth.
it was all keaton. we followed him from the beginning.
i did not know. i saw him die. i believe he is dead. christ
why lie about everything else, then?
you know what it is like, agent kujan, to know you will never be good? not good like you. you got good all fucked around. i mean a stand up guy. i grew up knowing i was never going to be good at anything 'cause i was a cripple. shit, i was not
you are not safe on your own.
you think he's..?
is he keyser soze i do not know, verbal. it seems to me that keyser sate is a shield. like you said, a spook story, but i know keaton - and someone out there is pulling strings for you. stay here and let us protect you.
I am not bait. no way. i post today.
you posted twenty minutes ago. captain leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p., unless you turn state's.
i'11 take my chances, thank you. it is tougher to buy the cheapest bag-man than it is to buy a cop.
where are you going to go, verbal? you going to run? turn states evidence. you might never see trial. if somebody wants to get you, you know they will get you out there.
maybe so, but I am no rat, agent kujan. you tricked me, that is all. i will not keep my mouth shut 'cause I am scared. i'11 keep it shut 'cause i let keaton down by getting caught - edie finneran too. and if they kill me, it is
i know what i wanted to know about keaton.
which is shit.
no matter. he will have to know how close we came.
keyser sate or not, if keaton's alive he will never come up again.
i'11 find him.
waste of time.
a rumor is not a rumor that does not die.
what?
nothing. something i - forget it.
