morning.
good morning mrs. macneil.
how are you today?
fine thank you.
that is good.
good morning madame.
good morning karl. oh karl, we have got rats in the attic you better get some traps.
rats?
uh huh. 'fraid so.
but it is clean?
all right then we have got clean rats.
no. no rats.
i just heard them karl.
yeah or maybe rats now will you just get those traps.
yes, i go now.
well do not go now karl the stores are not open yet.
burke take a look at this damn thing it just does not make sense.
why it is perfectly plain, your the teacher at the college, you do not want the building torn down.
c'mon i can read for christ sake.
well what is wrong?
well why are they tearing the building down?
shall we summon the writer? he is in paris i believe.
hiding?
hello?
in here!
hi
hi, how did your day go?
oh not to bad, kinda like the walt disney version of the ho chi minh story, but other than that it was terrific.
here.
oh great, anything else?
and you got an invitation.
what is this?
dinner at the white house.
your kidding me. what is it a big party or something?
just five or six people.
no kidding.
what did you do today?
um........stuff.
what kind of stuff?
well, me and sharon played a game in the back yard, and we had a picnic down by the river.
oh mom, you should have seen this man came along on this beautiful grey horse.  was not it pretty?
really, what kind was it a mair or guilding?
think it was a guilding. it was grey. oh it was so beautiful, the guy let me ride it all around.
your kidding?
well, not while we are in washington.
oh............
we will see when we get home okay.
when can i have one?
we will see regan.  now about those party invitations.......
I am all right.
how is your leg?
your uncle john stopped by to visit me.
oh really, when?
last month.
is that too tight?
no.
now momma you have to stay off it, you can not keep go up and down those stairs you have to give it rest.
okay
momma i can take you somewhere to a place where you would not be alone. there would be people around, you know you will not have to sit here listening to the radio.
dimmy, you worry for something?
no momma.
you are not happy. tell me what is the matter?
momma, I am all right, I am fine, really i am.
oh look at that.
you like it?
oh it is so funny.
hey, where did this come from?
i found it.
where?
the closet
you have been playing with it?
yeah.
you know how?
here I will show you.
wait a minute you need two.
no you don't. i do it all the time.
oh yeah, well let's both play.
you really do not want me to play huh?
no i do, captain howdy said no.
captain who?
captain howdy.
who is captain howdy?
you know, i make the questions and he does the answers.
oh, captain howdy....
he is nice.
oh i bet he is.
here I will show you.
captain howdy, do you think my mom's pretty? captain howdy? captain howdy that is not very nice.
well, maybe he is sleeping.
you think?
regan, why are you reading that?
cause i like it.
it is not even a good picture. looks to mature.
i would not talk.
oh you would not talk, well i did not have my make up man there.
what are we going to do on your birthday, is not that nice it is on a sunday this year, what can we do?
i do not know
well what would you like to do? got any ideas?
yeah
okay. and tomorrow night, I will take you to a movie, okay?
oh i love you.
i love you rags. we will have a good day yeah?
you can bring mr. dennings if you like.
mr. dennings?
well you know it is okay.
well thank you very much but why on earth would i want to bring burke on your birthday?
you like him.
yeah i like him. do not you like him? hey what is going on? what is this?
your not gonna marry him are you?
oh my god, you kidding, me marry burke dennings do not be silly, of course not.
what?
where did you ever get an idea like that?
but you like him.
course i like him, i like pizzas to but I am not going to marry one.
do you not like him like daddy?
oh regan i love your daddy. I will always love your daddy. burke just comes around here a lot because he is lonely, do not got nothin' to do.
well i heard differently.
oh you did. what did you hear?
i do not know, i just thought.
well your thinking's not so good.
how do you know?
cause burke and i are just friends. okay, really.
okay.
people get tired.
why does god let us get tired?
god gets lonesome for us, rags. he wants us back.
hello? yes this is mrs. macneil. operator you have got to be kidding i have been on this line for twenty minutes.  jesus christ, can you believe this, he does not even call his daughter on her birthday for christ sake.
maybe the circuit is busy?
oh circuit my ass, he does not give a shit!
why do not you let me?
what are you doing here?
my bed was shaking, i can not get to sleep.
oh, honey.
there is nothing.
oh karl, jesus christ karl, do not do that.
very sorry, but you see, no rats!
no rats. thanks a lot that is terrific.
miss?
yes?
we want to see mrs. karras.
do you have an appointment?
yes
are you a relative?
yes i am her brother, he is the son
just a minute.
a disorder of the nerves. at least we think it is. we do not know yet exactly how it works, but it is often seen in earl adolescence. she shows all the symptoms: the hyperactivity; the temper; her performance in math.
why the math?
it affects concentration.
now this is for ritalin. ten miligrams a day.
what is it? a tranquilizer?
a stimulant.
stimulant? she is higher than a kite right now!
her condition is not quite what it seems. nobody knows the cause of her hyperkinetic behaviour in a child. the ritalin sems to work to relieve the condition, but we really do not know how or why, frankly. your daughter's symptoms could be an overreaction to depression- but that is out of my field.
depression?
well, you mentioned her father... the divorce.
do you think i should take her to see a psychiatrist?
oh no. I would wait and see what happens with the ritalin. i think that is the answer. wait two or three weeks.
and those lies she is been telling?
lies?
ya know, those things to get attention, like saying that her bed shakes and stuff.
have you ever known your daughter to swear and use obscenities?
never.
well, you see, that is quite similar to things like her lying- uncharacter-
wait a minute. what are you talking about?
well, she let loose quite a string while i was examining her, mrs. macneil.
you are kidding! like what?
well, I would say her vocabulary's rather extensive.
well, what, for example? i mean, give me a for instance!
hey, come on, I am grown-up. what did she say? i mean specifically, doctor.
well, specifically, mrs. macneil, she advised me to keep my fingers away from her goddam cunt.
she used those words?
she used those words. look, i doubt that she even understood what she was saying.
yeah, i guess. maybe not. you do not think a psychiatrist-?
the best explanation is always the simplest one. let's wait. let's wait and see. in the meantime try not to worry.
over behind the church, you know where i mean over there, it is a red brick wing?
st. mike's.
what goes down there? i mean who is the priest i keep seeing, he is there all the time. he has black hair and he is very intense looking?
damien karras.
karras.
that is his office back of st. mike's. he is our psychiatric counsellor. he had a pretty rough knock last night poor guy, his mother passed away. she was living by herself and i guess she was dead a couple of days before they found her.
bastard! i will kill you.
karl!!
what honey?
fuck it.
hi chris. great party.
yeah, do not stop. keep going.
listen, i do not need any encouragement, but my idea of heaven is a solid white night club, with me as the head liner, for all eternity and they love me.
is it coming out willie?
yes, i think so.
oh my god!
make it stop! what is wrong!! I am scared!!!
where did you get the money for the chivas regal? the poor box?
that is an insult, i got a vow of poverty.
where did you get it then?
i stole it.
i believe you.
college president should not drink. tends to set a bad example, i figure i saved them from a big temptation.
oh christ! i should of been there and i was not there, i should have been there.
there was nothing you could do. lye down. c'mon.
think you can sleep?
are you gonna steal my shoes now?
no, i tell fortunes by reading the crease, now shut up and go to sleep.
goodnight dims.
stealing is a sin.
i do not want it.
honey it is to help you.
well, it is a symptom of a type of desturbance in the chemico- electrical activity of the brain. in the case of your daughter in the temperal lobe, up here in the lateral part of the brain. it is rare, but it does cause bizarre hallucinations and usually just before a convulsion.
convulsion?
the shaking of the bed, that is doubtless due to musuclar spasms.
oh no, that was no spasm. i got on the bed, the whole bed was thumping and rising off the floor and shaking. the whole thing, with me on it!
mrs. macneil the problem with your daughter is not her bed, it is her brain.
so, what causes this?
lesion, lesion in the temperal lobe. it is a kind of seizure disorder.
look doc, i really do not understand how her whole personality could change.
the temperal lobe is very common. could last for days, even weeks. it is not rare to find destructive or even criminal behaviour.
hey do me a favour will ya'. tell me something good.
do not be alarmed. if it is a lesion in a way she is fortunate. all we have to do is remove the scar.
mother please! oh please mother make it stop! it is burning, it is burning please mother!
so something please doctor, help her!
make it stop,it really hurts! mother! make it...
she is heavily sedated. she will probably sleep through tomorrow.
what was going on in there, how could she jump off the bed like that?
pathological states can induce abnormal strength, accelerated motor performance. for example, a ninety-pound women sees her child pinned under the wheel of a truck, runs out and lifts the wheels half a foot up off the ground. you know the story, same thing here. same principle, i mean.
so what is wrong with her?
we still think the temporal lobe...
oh. what are you talking about for christ sake! did you see her or not? she is acting like a fucking out of her mind psychotic or a split personality or...
there have not been more than a hundred authenticated cases of so- called split personality, mrs. macneil. now i know the temptation is to leap to psychiatry, but any reasonable psychiatrist would exhaust the somatic possibilities first.
so what is next?
a pneumoencephelogram, i would think, pin down that lesion. it will involve another spinal.
oh, christ.
what we missed in the eeg and the arteriogram could conceivably turn up there. at the least, it would eliminate certain other possibilities.
do you keep any drugs in your house?
no. of course not, nothing like that.
are you sure?
well of course I am sure. I would tell you. christ, i do not even smoke grass.
are you planning to be home soon? la, i mean.
no. I am building a new house, the old one's been sold. i was going to take regan to europe for a while, after she finished school here. why d'you ask?
i think it is time we started looking for a psychiatrist.
what the hell do you mean going out and leaving regan by her self! what are you kidding her window's wide open...
what did not he tell you?
did not who tell me?
burke.
what is burke got to do with it?
well, when i went to get the thorazine i had him to stay with her and... oh, i should of known better.
yeah, well i guess you should've.
what did the doctor say?
we have to start looking for a shrink.
oh burke! poor burke!
i can not believe it.
are you comfortable regan?
yes.
how old are you?
twelve.
is there someone inside you?
sometimes.
who is it?
i do not know.
is it captain howdy?
i do not know.
if i ask him to tell me, will you let him answer?
no.
why not?
I am afraid.
if he talks to me, i think he will leave you. do you want him to leave you?
yes.
have we met?
no we have not met, but they said i could tell; that you looked like a boxer.
william f. kinderman. homicide.
what is this about?
yeah, it is true. you do look like a boxer. john garfield, in body and soul. exactly john garfield anyone told you that father?
do people tell you look like paul newman?
always.
you this director was doing a film here, burke dennings?
I have seen him.
you have seen him. you are also familiar with how last week he died?
only what i read in the papers.
papers. tell me, what do you know about the subject of witchcraft? from the witching end, not the hunting.
i once did a paper on it
really?
from the psychiatric end.
i know. i read it. these desecration's in the churchyou think they have anything to do with witchcraft?
maybe. some rituals used in black mass. maybe.
and dennings, you read how he died?
yeah, a fall.
let me tell you how father, and please confidential. burke dennings, good father, was found at the bottom of those steps leading to 'm' street, with his head turned completely around. facing backwards.
could not it of happened on the fall.
it is possible. possible however
unlikely.
exactly. so on the one hand we have got a witchcraft type of murder and a black mass style of desecration in the church.
you think the killer and the desecrator are the same?
maybe somebody crazy, someone with a spite against the church, some unconscious rebellion, perhaps.
sick priest, is that it?
look, father this is hard for you- please. but for priests on the campus here, you are the psychiatrist; you would know who was sick at the time, who wasn't. i mean this kind of sickness. you would know that.
i do not know anyone who fits the description.
ah, doctor's ethics. if you knew you would not tell, huh?
no i probably wouldn't.
not to bother you with trivia, but a psychiatrist in sunny california was thrown in jail for not telling the judge what he knew about a patient.
is that a threat?
no, i mentioned it only in passing.
incidentally i mention only in passing that i could tell the judge that it was a matter of confession.
hey, father? you like movies?
very much.
i get passes to the best shows in town. mrs. k though, she gets tired and never likes to go.
that is to bad.
yeah, i hate to go alone. you know, i like to talk film; discuss the critique. d'you wanna see a film with me? i got passes to the crest. it is othello.
who is in it?
who is in it? debbie reynolds, desdemona, and othello, groucho marx. you are happy?
I have seen it.
one last time: can you think of some priest who fits the bill?
come on!
answer the question, father paranoia.
alright. you know who i think really did it?
who?
the dominicans. go pick on them.
i could have you deported, you know that?
quite frankly, we do not know much about it except that it is starts with some conflict or guilt that eventually leads to the patient's delusion that his body's been invaded by an alien intellegence; a spirit if you will.
look, I am telling you again and you would better believe it, I am not about to put her in a goddamn asylum!
it's-
and i do not care what you call it! I am not putting her away!
I am sorry.
you are sorry. christ, eighty-eight doctors and all you can tell me is all of your bullshit...
it is a stylized ritual in which rabbis or priests try to drive out the so-called invading spirit. it is pretty much discarded these days, except by the catholics who keep it in the closet as a sort of embarrassment. it has worked, in fact, although not for the reason they think, of course. it was purely the force of suggestion. the victim's belief in possession helped cause it; and just in the same way this belief in the power of exorcism can make it disappear.
you are telling me that, i should take my daughter to a witch doctor? is that it?
karl? did you put this in regan's bedroom?
she is going to be well?
karl if you put this in regan's room i want you to tell me, now did you?
no. it was not me. i didn't.
this was under regan's pillow. did you put it there?
of course i didn't.
excuse me miss?
what!
a man to see you.
what man?
does your daughter remember if perhaps mr. dennings was in her room in her room that night?
no, she was heavily sedated.
it is serious?
yes, I am affraid it is.
may i ask...?
we still do not know.
watch out for drafts. a draft in the fall when the house is hot is a magic carpet for bacteria.
excuse me madame? will there be anything else?
no thanks karl.
strange...strange...so baffling. the deceased comes to visit, stays only twenty minutes, and leaves all alone a very sick girl. and speaking plainly mrs. macneil, as you say, it is not likely he would fall from a window. besides that, a fall would not do to his neck what we found except maybe a chance in a thousand. my hunch? my opinion? i believe he was killed by a very powerful man: point one. and the fracturing of the skull - point two - plus the various things i have mentioned, would make it very probable - probable, not certain - that the deceased was killed and then pushed from your daughter's window. but no-one was here except your daughter. so how could this be? it could be one way: if someone came calling between the time miss spencer left and the time you returned. the servants, they have visitors?
no. not at all,
you were expecting a deliver y that day?
not that i know of.
groceries maybe? a package?
i really would not know, you see karl takes care of that.
oh, i see.
want to ask him?
never mind.
would you like some more coffee?
please.
incidentally, just a chance in a million, i know; but your daughter - you could possibly ask her if she saw mr. dennings in her room that night?
look, he would not have any reason to be up there in the first place.
i know that. i realize. but if a certain british doctor never asked "what's this fungus?" we would not today have penicillin. correct?
when she is well enough, I will ask.
could not hurt. in the meantime...
i hate to ask you this but... for my daughter could you maybe give an autograph?
of course. have you got a pen?
oh, she would love it.
what is her name?
i lied. it is for me. the spelling is on the back, kinderman. you know that film you made called angel? isaw that six times.
really? wow.
thank you.
you are a nice man.
chris macneil?
please go away.
I am father karras.
oh, I am very sorry father. hi.
that is okay. i should have told you i would not be in uniform.
yeah, it would have helped. have you got to cigarette father?
so, how did a shrink ever get to be a priest?
it is the other way around. the society sent me through med school.
where?
harvard, bellevue, john hopkins.
you are a friend of father dyer, right?
yes am.
pretty close?
pretty close.
did he tell you about my party?
sure did.
about my daughter?
no i did not know you had one.
he did not mention?
no.
did not tell you of what she did?
he did not mention her.
priests keep pretty tight mouthed then?
that depends.
on what?
the priest.
i mean, what if a person, let's say, was a criminal, like maybe a murderer or something, you know? if he came to you for help, would you have to turn him in?
if he came to me for spritual help, I would say no.
you wouldn't.
no i wouldn't. but I would try to persuade him to turn himself in.
and how do you go about getting an exorcism?
i beg your pardon?
if a person was possessed by a demon of some kind, how do you go about getting an exorcism?
well, the first thing I would do is put them into a time macine and send them back to the sixteenth century.
i did not get you?
well it just does not happen anymore mrs. macneil.
oh yeah, since when?
since we learned about mental illness, paranoia, schizophrenia. all the things they taught me in harvard. mrs. macneil since the day i joined the jesuits, I have never met one priest who has performed an exorcism, not one.
yeah well, it just so happens that somebody very close to me is probably possessed, and needs an exorcist.
that is all the more reason to forget about exorcism.
why, i do not understand?
to begin with it could make things worse.
but how?
well before the church approves an exorcism, it conducts an investigation to see if it is warranted. that takes time. in the meantime...
you could do it yourself...
no i couldn't, i have to have church approval, and frankly, that is rarely given,-
could you see her?
yes i could, i could see her as a psychiatrist...
not a psychiatrist! she needs a priest! she is already seen every fucking psychiatrist in the world and they sent me to you, now you are going to send me back to them! jesus christ, will not somebody help her!
no, you do not understand. your daughter-
oh, will you help her! just help her!
hello regan. I am a friend of your mother, I would like to help you.
you might loosen the straps then.
I am affraid you might hurt yourself regan.
I am not regan.
i see. well then let's introduce ourselves, I am damien karras.
and I am the devil! now kindly undo these straps!
if you are the devil, why not make the straps disappear?
that is much to vulgar a display of power karras.
where is regan?
in here. with us.
show me regan and I will loosen one of the straps.
your mother's in here with us karras, would you like to leave a message? I will see that she gets it.
if that is true, then you must know my mother's maiden name. what is it?
thanks. look, I am only against the possibility of doing your daughter more harm than good.
nothing you could do would make it any worse.
i can not do it. i need evidence that the church would accept as signs of possession.
like what?
like her speaking in a language that she is never known or studied.
what else?
i do not know. I will have to look it up.
i thought you were supposed to be an expert.
there are no experts. you probably know as much about possession than most priests. look your daughter does not say she is a demon, she says she is the devil himself and if you have seen as many psychotics as i have, you would know it is like saying you are napoleon bonaparte. you ask me what i think is best for your daughter. six months, under observation in the best hospital you can find.
you show me regan's double: same face, same voice, same everything. I would know it was not regan. I would know in my gut and I am telling you that that thing upstairs is not my daughter! and i want you to tell me that you know for a fact that there is nothing wrong with my daughter except in her mind! you tell me you know for a fact that an exorcism would not do any good! you tell me that!
did regan know a priest was coming over?
no.
did you know my mother died recently?
yes i did, I am sorry.
no, is regan aware of it?
not at all. why d'you ask?
it is not important good night.
he broke the bread, gave it to his disciples and said "take this, all of you and eat. for this is my body." when the supper had ended, he took the cup, again he gave you thanks and praise. gave the cup to his disciples and said "take this, all of you will drink from it, this is the cup of blood, the blood of the new and ever lasting covenant and the mystery of faith".
what an excellent day for an exorcism.
you would like that?
intensely.
but would not that drive you out of regan?
it would bring us together.
you and regan?
you and us.
did you do that?
uh huh.
do it again.
in time.
no now.
in time. but mirabile dictu, do not you agree?
you speak latin?
ego te abslovo.
quod nomen mihi est?
bon jour.
quod nomen mihi est?
la plume de ma tante.
how long are you planning to stay in regan?
until she rots and lie stinking in the earth.
what is that?
holy water.
ydob eht ni mraw si ti! uoy ees i! tseirp a si eh! emit su evig! nirrem! nirrem!
who are you?
tseirp a si eh! eno on ma i! eno on ma i! ahhhhhhhhhhh!
wanna drink.
please.
what do you drink?
no it is alright I will take it straight.
are you sure?
it is fine really, sit.
where is regan's father?
in europe.
have you told him what is happening?
no
well i think you should.
i told regan that was holy water, i sprinkled some on her and she reacted very violently. it is tap water.
what is the difference?
holy water's blessed. and that does not help support a case for possession.
she...killed burke dennings.
what?
she killed burke dennings. she pushed him out of the window.
i am no one! i am no one! he is a priest!
uoy era ohw.
merrin! merrin!
i am no one! i am no one! he is a priest!
uoy era ohw.
you are convinced that it is genuine.
i do not know. no, not really i suppose. but I have made a prudent judgement that it meets the conditions set down in the ritual.
you would want to do the exorcism yourself?
yes.
it might be best to have a man with experience. maybe someone who is spent time in the foreign missions.
i see, your excellency.
let's see whose around. in the meantime I will call you as soon as i know.
thank you your excellency.
well, he does know the background. i doubt there is any danger in just having him assist. there should be a psychiatrist present, anyway.
and what about the exorcist? any ideas?
how about lankaster merrin.
merrin? i had notion he was over in iraq. i think i read he was working on a dig around nineveh.
that is right mike. but he is finished and came back around three ot four months ago, he is in woodstock now.
what is he doing there? teaching?
no, he is working on another book.
do not you think he is too old, though? how is his health?
it must be alright. he is still running around digging up tombs. besides, he is had experience.
i did not know that.
ten maybe twelve years ago, in africa. the exorcism supposedly lasted for months. i heard it damn near killed him.
yes. he is already here.
father?
merrin!!!!!!!
are you tired?
no.
i would like you to go quickly over to the resdence damien, and gather up a cassock for myself, two surplices, a purple stole, and some holy water, and your copy of the roman ritual. the large one. i believe we should begin.
do you want to hear the background of the case, first?
why?
we may ask what is relevant, but anything beyond that is dangerous. he is a liar, the demon is a liar. he will lie to confuse us. but he will also mix lies with the truth to attack us. the attack is psychological , damien. and powerful. so do not listen, remember that, do not listen.
i think it would be helpful if i gave you some background on the different personalities regan has manifested. so far, there seems to be three. she is convinced-
there is only one.
stick your cock up her ass! you mother fucking, worthless cocksucker!
be silent!
hallowed be thy name. thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. and lead us not into temptation.
but deliver us from the evil one.
save me o' god by thy name, by thy might defend my cause, proud men have risen up against me, men of violence seek my life, but god is my helper, the lord sustains my life and every need he has delivered to me, glory be to the father, the son and the holy spirit.
as it was in the begin is now and ever shall be, world without end, amen.
save your servant
who places her trust in thee, my god.
be unto her o' lord a fortified tower.
in the face of the enemy.
let the enemy have no power over her.
and the son of iniquity be powerless to harm her.
your mother sucks cocks in hell karras, you faithless slime!
o'lord hear my prey.
and let my cry come unto thee.
the lord be with you.
and also with you.
let us pray. holy lord, almighty father, everlasting god and father of our lord jesus christ, who once and for all consigned that fallen tyrant to the flames of hell. who sent your only begotten son into the world to crush that roaring lion.
...and to redeem through your son. who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the holy spirit, god forever and ever.
amen
o'lord hear my preyer.
father karras? father karras? damien? the reponse please damien!
and let my cry come unto thee.
almighty lord, word of god the father jesus christ, god and lord of all creation, who gave to your holy apostle the power to tramp underfoot serpents and scorpions. grant me, your unworthy servant pardon for all my sins...
bastards! stop!
...and the power to confront this cruel demon.
amen
see the cross of the lord. be gone you hostile power. o'lord hear my prayer.
and let my cry come unto thee.
the lord be with you.
and also with you.
i cast you out!!! unclean spirit...!
shove it up your ass you faggot!
...in the name of the lord jesus christ!!! it is he who commands you! he who flung you from the heights of heaven to the depths of hell!
fuck him!!!
...be gone!!
fuck him karras!!! fuck him!!!
...from this creature of god!!!
amen.
defender of the human race...
...look down in pity...
you killed your mother!!! you left her alone to die!!!! she will never forgive you!!! bastard!!!
shut up!!
... upon this your servant, regan teresa macneil.
why this girl it makes no sense?
i think the point is to make us dispair... to see our selves as... animal and ugly... to reject the possibillity that god could love us.
what is it?
her heart.
can you give her something?
she will go into coma.
you are not my mother!!!
do not listen.
is she gonna die?
no.
where do you want this?
what is it?
phonograph.
storage.
I am going to miss you.
me too.
sure you will not change your mind?
she does not remeber a thing.
that is good.
all done.
honey this is father dyer.
hi father.
goodbye father. i call you.
okay.
lieutenant?
i came to say goodbye.
you just missed them.
how is the girl?
she seemed fine.
ah, that is good. that is all that is important. back to business. back to work. bye now, father.
good bye.
do you like films?
sure.
i get passes. in fact i got a pass for the crest tomorrow night. would you like to go?
what is playing.
withering heights.
who is in it?
heathcliff, jackie gleason, and in the role of catherine earnshaw, lucille ball.
I have seen it.
another one. had your lunch?
no.
