you dead yet?
no, keeper.
please revel with me, aramis, i need my spirits lifted.  I am old, I am weak, my strength is gone --
be quiet, you fat fool.  can not you see I am praying?
i just said you are praying!  are you deaf too?  i know you are blind, because if you had seen the tits that just walked out of here, you would have tears in your eyes.
there are more important things than tits.
really?  if you can name me one thing, one single thing, that is more sublime than the feel of a plump pink nipple between my lips, i will buy you a new cathedral.
forgiveness.
forgiveness?
i observe your forgiveness is not sweeter than a plump nipple.
can not you see I am praying, goddammit?!
a simple theological discussion.
aramis -- the king wishes to see you.
still you serve him loyally -- though people hurl rotten eggs at his royal emblem.
do i look all right?
none of the ladies will be able to take their eyes off you.
i care only about michelle.  should i ask her when we first arrive? or... or when we are leaving?  i could ask her in the carriage -- but it is more romantic at the palace. i get so confused...
perhaps this will help.
mother's ring.  i can not take this.
she died giving you to me.  and i want to die knowing it is one the finger of the women my son loves.
riots?  my people live in the world's most beautiful city, their king has the grandest palaces on earth.  why should they feel anything but pride and contentment?
well yes, of course, majesty, and I am sure they are content... except that... well, they are starving.
sometimes the poor do grow hungry. but why would they riot about it?
majesty... we have more than enough food set aside for your birthday celebration next week.  if we distributed some of that, we would have time to gather more before --
aramis!  i have been expecting you!  we are satisfied, that will do.
your birthday celebration, your majesty?
next week.  this is a mere garden party -- and i wish to join it, so i will be brief.  i am experiencing resistance from the jesuits.
well... perhaps you should speak with them, your majesty.
i have demanded it -- and common priests present themselves!  can you imagine the arrogance?  common jesuit priests try to act as my equals, and they refuse to reveal the names of anyone else in their order!  no one can keep secrets like the jesuits can, and the identity of their leader is the darkest secret they hold.  even the pope himself does not know who leads the jesuit order in france!  he suspects the governor general of jesuits, whoever he is, is angling to become pope himself.
how can i serve you in this?
perhaps you can find out who this secret leader of the jesuits is. you are now a priest, but you were once a musketeer, serving the throne of france, a throne ordained of god. can you accept this mission, and keep it private?
if i find out the identity of this jesuit rebel.  i will kill both him and the man who told me.
once a musketeer, always a musketeer, eh?
ah yes, the riots.  we have food stocks on the wharves right now, no?
that food has spoiled.  that is why it was not shipped to the army.
exactly why it should be given away.
what... an excellent idea, your majesty!
your majesty...
what is it, d'artagnan?  assassins falling from the sky now?
the plans for use of the maze were not disclosed to me.
i decided it this morning.
then you must allow me to stay close to you so that --
i am king, d'artagnan.  i will change my mind as i wish, and i will enjoy my banquet as i wish!
but i deployed the royal guards according to your previous --
let us play a game, d'artagnan, let us pretend i am king and you are captain of my musketeers.  let us behave as if my wish is law.  and my wish is to enjoy this party!
i would have said it was impossible, but i believe the excitement of the chase has made you even more beautiful.
sire, i --
you blush!  you do not wish to be beautiful to your king?
food, moron.
thank you, keeper.
what number did you tear out?
eh?
what number, on the first page?
... two-thirty-seven.
two-thirty-seven:  "... and the descendants of japeth are these: obediah, zebulon, hezekiah..."
you've... memorized...?
what was the end page?
m'lady...?
i understand you saved my son's life today.
god smiled upon us.
and you were not hurt?
no, m'lady.
that is good.
d'artagnan!
athos, my friend!
it is been too long.
life is too long.  except when we have our friends.  look at you! you are still a boy!  sit, sit!  I will open a bottle of wine.
thanks, but not for me.
you can not drink with a friend you have not seen in months?
i have ordered a drill of the royal guard for midnight, and must be clear-headed for it.
midnight!  mon dieu!  driving the youngsters hard, eh?
they must stay sharp.  there was an attempt on the king's life today.
another?  how many times have you saved his life in this year alone? three?  four?
i heard your playing.
i was feeling sorry for myself. raoul is getting married, he proposed today!  i love that boy beyond all measure, I have spent everything i own to give him education and opportunity.  now he has complete happiness, and i mope.
that must be raoul!  raoul!  look, d'artagnan's come to visit...! what is wrong?  you look awful!
michelle, she -- the king has invited her to come live in the palace.
but -- are you sure?
we were at her door.  i was just taking the ring from my pocket, for the third time today, when a young musketeer brought the invitation for her to become a lady-in-waiting for the queen mother.
michelle cannot possibly accept!
she cannot possibly refuse.  her family is poor, they have even less money than we do.  and along with the invitation, the king sent the diamond pendant, from the piglet.
piglet -- ?  what are you -- ?
never mind, papa, it does not matter now.  she loved me once.  i want to die remembering that.
die?  what...?
i have rejoined the army, and asked to resume my commission at the head of the troops of general fromberge.
fromberge...?!  at the front?!  no.
it is already done.  i have just stopped at mother's grave, to say goodbye, before coming to tell you.
raoul, no... you cannot do this.  no matter how your heart is broken --
goodbye, father.  i am sorry.
raoul --
this cannot be.  everyone knows the queen mother is a recluse, and the ladies-in-waiting are but mistresses for the king!
if the young woman truly loves raoul --
she is a woman, d'artagnan!  from a poor family.  you may still be young enough to believe love conquers everything, but i am old and hard and I have seen too much.  even when kings are hunchbacks they have any woman they desire, because power seduces even more than love!
you knew this was happening.  you knew and that is why you came.
i fear i know our king.  i came to try to bring you hope.
what hope is there?  a wartime commission cannot be vacated except by the king, and what chance is there of that?  fromberge is on the battle line, and raoul --
i have dispatches a message to fromberge requesting that raoul be kept far from the fighting.
raoul is everything to me.
i know.
oh my friend.
i will also speak with the king, for he is surely unaware of the problems his invitation to mademoiselle beaufort has caused.
you trust his character more than anyone else does.
raoul is hurrying to the front, so i must hurry too.
save my son, d'artagnan.
aaa!  d'artagnan!  these passages were constructed for the king's security, not so you could step from my father's portrait and startle me to death!
it is for your security that i have come, your majesty -- for the security of your honor.
i already know about the riots, d'artagnan, i heard them out there whispering.  some fool gave the order to distribute rotten food.  i will deal with it tomorrow.
then there is one more thing, of an even more personal nature.
a personal nature?
mademoiselle michelle beaufort.  she is betrothed to raoul, the son of athos the musketeer, who has served france through many tribulations.
betrothed?  i think not.
in his mind, anyway, and soon enough in hers.  she had written him many letters of love.
miss beaufort has accepted our invitation.  by this we can only suppose that she wishes to come -- as we wish her to be here.
your majesty has had many women --
that is my desire, and my desire is what should concern you, not the sentiments of some commoner!
it is not raoul's heart alone that concerns me.  it is yours.  i know you find women compliant -- especially the poorer ones like michelle.  but do they love you?  do you love them?  what about a queen to love?  a son of your own?
what quaint notions, d'artagnan! but they contradict my father, who picked his queen when he was old, and only then to bear me.
there is more to love than he knew, or that you know.
you dare criticize my father?!  or lecture me?!
not criticize -- plead.  love.  love your people, and you will not bear to see them hungry.  love women, and they will love you.  love yourself, and --
that is enough!  you are a good servant, d'artagnan, but you forget your place!
at least help raoul.
silence!  i order you!
order fromberge to keep him in safety!  it is the least you can do, to protect your own honor!
i will consider it.  now leave me.
thank you, your majesty.
your majesty...
how goes that favor i asked of you?
i grow closer to my target, your majesty.
you bring me the heart of the jesuit general, and you will have a palace of your own.
sire!  i -- how did you --
how did i get in?  you are new here, and will soon learn many secrets. what is that?
... nothing.
a letter.  may i see?
from raoul.  he urges you to guard your honor -- as if it could be in any danger... from your king.
raoul... is in love...
enough of this, our dinner waits.
the food does not please you?
it is lovely.  it is just...
this is more than you are used to. your mother is a seamstress, your father is dead.  you have three younger sisters, two of whom suffer from consumption.  do not look so surprised, kings know such things.
i... we are humble people...
wait, no!  do not be ashamed.  the straits of your family need not be permanent.  it is a simple matter to have them brought to one of my country estates, where they may have fine meals, and physicians to look after them.
you would do that, your majesty?
my dear, I have already done it.
you are beautiful.  you know you are.
sire, i --
if you do not want to be so appealing, why did you touch the rose to your skin?  where was it? here?
athos, please...!
get out of my way.
athos, i beg you --
where are you going?
to kill the king.
athos!  i know life means nothing to you at this moment, but i will not let you kill yourself.
the king killed my son!
the cannons killed raoul!  the cannons, and love.  but not the king.
shall i leave?
no, you may wait behind the screen.
i would not have disturbed you, majesty, but you ordered me to keep you informed --
yes, yes, go on.
athos, the former musketeer, has just fought with several of your guard, at the musketeers' gate.
did they kill him?
no.  he cut an ear from one of the men, no one else was hurt.  captain d'artagnan allowed him to leave. athos was upset about the death of his son, at the front.
who was athos seeking?  tell me! did he try to enter the palace?
... he did -- but captain d'artagnan blocked his way.
you may go, lieutenant.
do you want athos arrested, your majesty?
not by you.  i will order d'artagnan to do it.
did you know... about raoul?
i did not want to upset you.  it was tragic.  i did everything i could for him.  i ordered him positioned in a spot of complete safety, far from the fighting.  but he disregarded my wishes and charged into danger.
i will order a mass for his soul. it will guarantee his place in heaven.
oh louis, louis...
aramis... is this the way to hell?
hell may be our destination, dear porthos, but not this trip.
where are we?
jesus of nazareth found the holy among the profane.  if we are to have a place of private prayer, where better than here, beside the channels where the shit and the garbage run to the river?
mother of god!
it is also a place of burial.
a tomb?  we are in a tomb?
catacombs.  very holy.
look at us.  we are old men now.  but once we were young.  and when we saw injustice, we fought it.
we have grown wiser with age.  now we know that some problems cannot be settled with a sword.
and some problems cannot be settled without one.
well here is the problem at hand: the king has ordered me to discover the identity of the governor general of jesuits, and kill him.  as our english rivals have left the catholic church, louis has struck on a plan to dominate the whole of europe by uniting church and state and making himself head of both.  he has already picked the pope.  only the jesuits, who put god above throne or papacy, stand in his way.
but -- does not god ordain both pope and king?
so they tell us.  but what are we to believe when the king is a tyrant, and the church, meant to stand for all those oppressed, has become the tool of oppression?  when no conscience is tolerated?  no dissent, no objection?
it is a weighty problem, aramis -- but perhaps you should leave it to this secret general of the jesuits, whoever he might be.
easy to say, but hard to do.  for what i am trying to tell you is that i am the governor general of jesuits in france.
what do you propose to do?
replace the king.
it can.  i know the way.
i am with you!
no!  stop --
i will need you all.  all for one. one for all.
you -- you cannot ask me to betray my king!  i have sworn to him!
it is honor you serve, and when the king is dishonorable you are removed from your oath of honor!
an oath is an oath precisely because it cannot be removed!
why do you follow him, d'artagnan?! i know you have put service above your own life, but why does this king deserve such loyalty?  he is a monster!  he executes ministers for his own blunders, with their families hostage so they take the blame!  he has no honor!
no man is all bad... or all good.  i believe -- i must believe -- that louis can learn.  and perhaps i can help him.
i have heard many confessions, d'artagnan.  but even if i were not a priest, i could tell your heart has a secret weight, and it is hurting you to carry it alone.
the secret i carry i cannot share. not even with god.
i cannot betray louis.  i will defend him with my life.
i know.  god go with you.
what are they doing?
making the key to the throne.
porthos sleeps, and you plot.  do not you think it is time you told me what it is you are plotting?
soon enough.  here we are.
the prison of belle sur.
come, we have a boat waiting.
what is that?
a body.
i see that is a body!  but where did you get it?
he gets one day of confession each year.  today is the day.
who does?
best not to ask.  should not even talk about it.
what do we do now?
i do not know about you, but i plan to wait here.
prison was horrible but it was his home.  he is been torn from it by strangers.  he is frightened, exhausted -- and the mask is familiar.  let him rest in it tonight, and remove it tomorrow.
excellent, athos.  you have a keen sense of this man.
his plight is obvious, is not it?
and why are you so glum?
i expected action.  there was no killing, no fighting, i was useless.
are you hungry?
just... water.
this place... i once lived in a country house.  i had guardians -- an old man and woman.  and tutors. but no friends.  then when i was twelve, they came and took me to the prison.
who came?
a man in black.  i never saw his face.  he took me to the cell.  a blacksmith came and they put me into the mask.  for days i shouted, "what have i done?  why do you do this to me?"  but no one heard, so i just stopped shouting.
and you never knew why?
the old man and woman called me... phillippe.
phillippe.  rest now.
who is he, aramis?
tomorrow.
tonight!  right now!  we steal a man from a royal prison, we hide in a country chateau among an assortment of saints and sluts such as only you could provide, and still you wish to tell me nothing?!
you seek facts, when it would be better to seek truth.
you are not my priest, aramis!  you would not be, even if i had one.
you are bitter, athos.  you are torn by grief, not only for raoul, but for d'artagnan, whom you love, and now treat as an enemy.
he who is not with us is against us.
those are the words of a broken spirit.  my spirit is whole.  i have trusted d'artagnan with my deepest secrets, and i will never believe he is my enemy.
then you are a fool -- a fool who has never lost a son.  what gives you the right to judge me, to play god with the lives of others?  is it because you are so much holier than everyone else?!
there is that, of course -- but mainly it is because i am so much smarter than everyone else.
oh god i -- forgive me...
m'lady...?
what -- ?
no, stay back!  stay back!
m'lady... if anyone sees, it is death...
if i do not kiss you, i die anyway.
i can not bear to see you cry.  what is wrong?
nothing... nothing.
anne...!  i know... i know that to love you is treason against france. but not to love you... is treason against my heart.
then we will both die traitors, d'artagnan.
raoul... oh, raoul...
listen, my darling... raoul was a... a good friend.  and now he is dead and that is very sad but --
we will burn in hell.  both of us.
i just left the garden, it was empty.  what did you see?
it... was nothing.  a nightmare, nothing more.  go away, i --
aramis!  athos!  he looks exactly like... exactly like...
i will answer all your questions. but first soap, water, and a razor.
the greatest secret of life is who we truly are.  now i must give you that secret, which has been kept from you your whole life.  it began on the night when louis was born.
i remember that night.  d'artagnan was drunk, the only time I have seen him that way.  the three of us were reveling, remember, athos?
but i was on duty...
i do not understand.  what does this have to do with...?  you carried a baby somewhere, it is unusual, but --
not just a baby, porthos.  i carried the child of the king.
the child of the king is... the king.  louis!
no, not louis!
athos, do you understand this?  he confuses me --
i carried the king's child!  the queen had twins that night, and one of them was sent away, in secret!
but why?
because the old king had a twin as well, and through his whole reign his brother fought him for the throne.  then he had two heirs, not just sons but twins.  so he decided that one be put away, as if he never existed.  you, phillippe.
switch?!  that is your plan?  it is ludicrous!
i have it all worked out.
physical resemblance is but one small thing!  louis has an arrogance, a manner --
those can be adopted --
and people close to him, who --
do you think i have not considered that?  i have a plan -- and you may rest assured that it is brilliant!
it is not just our lives you risk with this conceit of yours!  it is phillippe's as well!
yes, and he has a choice!
recent hours have been a shock.
perhaps not as much as you might imagine.  when tutors answered every question except those about who i was.  when i was imprisoned in a way no other man had ever been, i knew there was something different about me.  but a king...
phillippe... there is something i hope you understand.  terrible cruelty has been used against you. and... you must understand that you did nothing to deserve it.
there is... wrath... in me.  i have learned to hide it.  those years in the cell, i dreamed that freedom would someday just happen, the way the mask happened.  now i am free. and with each free breath i feel the growing desire to make someone suffer for all i lost.  look at this, all this that for ten years i could not see!  what if i become a king -- a king no different from my brother?
the desire for vengeance... can be a poison.
what is its antidote?
i suppose... it is to remember there are many people who have never been in a prison, who pass such beauty every day, and never see it.
you look so sad.  is it something i have done?
it is something i have done -- or did not do.
what is that?
i did not share beauty with someone... who is no longer here for me to share beauty with.
how is he?
resting, he is had a long day. aramis --
more wine!!
you must reconsider this plan. phillippe is like a child, he --
you can do it.
in a year, maybe two, i could teach him enough to --
three days.
three days??!!
the king is having a ball, a masquerade ball.  it is the perfect opportunity and perhaps our only one.  at any time phillippe could be discovered, and what then?  remember france.  remember the poor. remember raoul.  more wine!!  where are those serving girls...?
phillippe -- he is very bright, he is perceptive, but he is in such turmoil --
you grow fond of him.  that is good.
do not play god with me, aramis i --
go on.
but -- what is porthos doing?
going into the barn naked -- or so it appears.
now.  you were saying?
but -- what is he doing?
about to hang himself, i should think.
hang himself?!
he is threatened to do it, it is been building up in him for months.
we must stop him!
come now, athos, if porthos is determined to end his life, then he will certainly manage to find the opportunity.
but -- but --
you have been moping for months.  now that you have gotten the idea of killing yourself out of the way, you can stop boring me and start being useful to me.  now get some rest.
well... well... okay.
poor phillippe!
the mask is terrifying... especially when unexpected.  do you notice?
all i noticed was that phillippe feels even more like an animal.
I have worn this mask so long, i could not sleep without it.
i will sit with you.  i can not sleep either.
where are you going?!
paris.  there is still much to do. we will be back soon.  be ready.
but aramis -- !  phillippe can learn in time, but --
he can learn to be phillippe in time.  but first he must learn to be louis, and for that he has two more days.
what you are asking is impossible!
i offer you the perfect revolution. a revolution without bloodshed, without any loss of life, even without treason, for he too is the son of the king.
but --
you said you would do anything, athos, anything to replace this king.  so do it.
i am so sorry!  forgive me, i --
no!  do not be sorry!  never be sorry!  the king cares for nothing and for no one!  there are no mistakes when you are king!  what you do is right for every person!  a king has contempt for everyone!
is that the king of king you wish me to be?  or do you say this because of your son?
how did you know -- ?
porthos told me.
coming?
what use am i?
we go someplace dangerous.
why did not you say so?
let's see you rob somebody with your pistol there!
come on...
aramis... these are... these are whores!
so was mary magdalene, and our lord loved her.
did she have tits like that?
he is going to kill you, aramis.
then let him kill me, if all my faith is wrong.
these rooms are yours.  up these stairs -- or through this hidden passage -- is the room of your mistress... michelle.
whose rooms are those?
your mother's.
aramis, this will never --
louis is planning a visit to the vatican, then who knows where after that.  if we miss him now we may not get another chance.
but --
it presses us but it is good for us too!  louis' whims make him more vulnerable.  we are less ready, but so are his guards!
d'artagnan, unready?
at a ball, everyone watches the king!
but what if something extraordinary happened?  something so unusual that all the attention went to someone else?  someone whose confirmation of phillippe the king would never be questioned.
who?
the queen mother.  anne.
your majesty.  this ball, with an open invitation to the nobility of paris -- we have no way of checking --
you will protect me as you always have, d'artagnan.
mother -- ?
may i speak with you?  alone?
i am preparing for a ball!
we have not visited in three years. and we should have privacy.
what is it, mother?
i wish to discuss your brother.
he is dead!  by god's choice!  there is nothing to discuss.
first they told me he had died at birth.  then your father admitted he was alive, but well cared for, in secret.  but the message that told of his death said he had been a prisoner.
i am king, mother!  and i do not wish to discuss this with you.
he was my blood -- and i demand to know what happened to him.
why would you ask now?  you never asked before!
because i have dreamed of him.  not as the baby they took away, but as a man.
you have prayed too much.  your mind is weak.
it -- it does not matter, mother!  he is dead now!  dead!
yes.  dead.  two nights ago.  the night of my dream.
remember, phillippe... nobility is born in the heart.
hold your goblet with two fingers.
d'artagnan watches everything.  we have to be lucky.
we will make our own luck tonight... if phillippe holds up.
your majesty...?
... tired.  must... lie down.
the room of the king's favorite mistress?
she will be at the ball.
wh-- wha--
do not look so shocked, phillippe. come, you are going back to prison.
phillippe?!  why do you call me --
my queen...
d'artagnan.
i have never seen a sight more beautiful than you, tonight.
we have much to discuss.  tomorrow.
continue.
sire, we have an emergency -- of security.  i must ask you to accompany me.
... the ball... continue.
i must insist, sire.
if you ever loved me -- if you ever loved honor, or anything else -- then stand now, and let it happen.
i cannot, athos.  dearly as i love you, i cannot.
d'artagnan, arrest them all!
shut up, knave!
pull them back, d'artagnan.
you can not do it.
pull them back!
everyone back.
phillippe, get into the boat.  into the boat!  now!
i want all these passages sealed! another stupid idea of my father's! seal them all, every one!
it shall be done, your majesty.
even the bedchamber passages!  let none remain!
yes, your majesty.
i was told this impostor was dead!
... you knew you had a double?
he is my brother.
i -- i thought he was but... an impostor who resembled --
my twin.  which has kept him alive. until now.
louis, please -- !
my guards are useless!  take her from me!
what had you to do with this, mother?
he is your brother!
he is nothing now.
your majesty... this man before you... he is royal blood, the same as you.  to spill it is the one thing even you cannot do.  it is against the laws of god, and of france.
get out of my way.
not once have i ever asked anything for myself.  i ask now.  forgive this man, this prisoner... your brother.
forgive?!
aramis, porthos and athos too.  i know what they have done was a threat against you -- and yet that threat has been removed, with no harm coming to your majesty.  if their passions were in error, their spirits have ever been noble. forgive them.
they have plotted against me!  me! the embodiment of god's will!
d'artagnan, you will hunt down aramis, porthos and athos, and bring me their heads, or i will have yours.  and as for you, phillippe... back to the prison you shall go, and into the mask you hate.
no, louis!  no!
wear it until you love it.  and die in it!!
where is michelle?
there.
there were two.  not one.  but two.
i could not tell you.  you had enough to carry.
anne... the night we had together... i always wanted more.  but that one, it was enough.  enough to make me love you forever.  i want you to remember that... and go on.  as strong as you are now.  no matter what happens.
now.  where is d'artagnan?
out directing the search for the traitors.
when he returns, watch him.  when he leaves again, you tell me.
bloody hell...
we can't... stay here.  that traitor d'artagnan... knows about this place.
can we eat... before we go?  this excitement's given me an appetite.
bread and wine... in that cupboard.
"phillippe has been removed to the bastille, to the lower dungeon.  at midnight tonight i will order the guard changed, and will delay the replacements for ten minutes.  that should give you ample time.  never have i needed more to say:  one for all, and all for one.  d'artagnan."
he lures us to capture.
he seeks redemption.
you are a fool!
perhaps.  but of d'artagnan i am certain.  what he did tonight was what he told us all along he would do -- be faithful to his king.
so what has changed?
perhaps he serves a different king.
what choice is there?  if phillippe is in the bastille, then to the bastille we will go.
you are right.  but it is a trap.
so what?  I would rather die covered in blood, than an old man, lying in my own piss.
then to the bastille.
to the bastille.  and death.
it worked!
it is a prison, you idiot!  they do not expect anyone to try getting in!  the problem will come when we want out!
phillippe...?
how did you --
he lies.  he is here to trap us.
i came to see you safely out.  check for yourself.
once you are through, do not stop until you reach the river.
they will know you helped us, if we go this way.
that does not matter now.
cowards!  twenty run from four?!
the corridor nullifies our number... and no one has stomach to fight the captain.
d'artagnan.  perhaps you should accept his offer, for we are dead anyway.
he is right, d'artagnan.
wait.  bargain me to louis, for all your lives.  you have done your best.  let me go, and let all of you find peace.
no.  even if i could give up my friends, i could never give up my son.
d'artagnan... those are young musketeers down there.  they have been weaned on our legends.  they revere us -- it is an advantage. why do not we charge them?
i trained those men myself.  they will stand and fight.  but if we are to die, let it be this way.
one for all.  all for one.
if i could have a blade, then i would be please to run with you.
magnificent valor...
shoot them!  shoot them!
phillippe!
i am unhurt --
all this time... i was a lost secret.  but you were hiding all your loyalty, all your love.  you were the man in the iron mask.
d'artagnan...
