he will not leave the grave -- not since wednesday last when we buried the lad.
your son, ma'am?  he must have been a fine boy for the wee dog to love him so.
not much danger here, ma'am, i would not think -- right here in the heart of edinburgh.
they are uncommon bold, the grave robbers -- and the daft doctors who drive them on.
I am by way of being a medical myself.
a doctor?
a student.  I am studying under dr. macfarlane -- that is, I have been studying until today --
was the paralysis immediate?
no, doctor.  she seemed to get better, then about six months later she began to complain of pain in her back --
how long after that was the paralysis complete?
nearly a year.
any attacks of pain since?
yes, doctor.
is her pain sporadic or constant?
it comes at intervals.  they used to be months apart -- but they have been growing more frequent --  much more frequent.
see here, child, when you have this pain in your back, where is it?
excuse me, dr. macfarlane --
come in, boy -- come in.
but, doctor, i only wanted to speak to you --
come -- it is a chance to try out your bedside manner, fettes.  take a look at the child.
are you a doctor, too?
not yet.
you will be a good doctor.  i know all about doctors.
what you really want to ask me is about my back, is not it -- about where it hurts?
why, yes.
well --
child seems to take to the lad. what sort of an accident was it, ma'am?
a carriage overturned.  my husband was killed and georgina was hurt.
how long ago?
three years.
dr. macfarlane --
excuse me.
but can anything be done for her?
perhaps -- a delicate operation -- an operation which has never been performed -- but it could be performed.  I am sure it could be -- i could incise the columna dorsi --
believe me, madame, if i were only a doctor, i would undertake this operation at once.  but I am more dominie than doctor -- I have a school to run.
but, doctor, surely in a case like this -- a child -- a little child who can never walk or run --
i regret it, ma'am, but i have the responsibility of training thirty other doctors to attend a thousand children like your own.
there is nothing i can say for one small child?
I am not heartless, ma'am.  i have every sympathy for you and for the little girl, but if i were to consent to every operation brought to me, I would have no time for teaching -- and that is a great responsibility upon me, ma'am -- a great responsibility.
I am afraid I will have to give up medicine, dr. macfarlane.
you are made for a doctor, young man!
I am afraid i have to, sir.  you see, my father is vicar at thrums -- it is a small parish -- not much of a living --
you are too good a man, fettes -- I will not let you quit.  I will make an assistant of you -- that will pay your keep and your tuition, too --
i thought only the best students were made assistants.
well? and are you not a good student?
but richardson?
richardson is a fine student.  he is got a glib tongue, but you will be a better doctor, fettes.  come along now --
and why not?  he is a good lad -- bright and able.
aye.  he is a good lad.  that is why i ask you, macfarlane.
you think it will spoil the boy, eh? was i not assistant to knox?
aye --
did it spoil me, meg, my lass?
you know how we get the specimens we use for dissection?
from the municipal council -- they are the bodies of paupers --
I am donald fettes.
I am very pleased to know you, master fettes.
mr. gray?
that is right.  gray, the cabman. I have had a bit of dealing with macfarlane in the past, you know.
dr. macfarlane said i should pay you --
of course -- it is the soul of the business -- the pay --
you asked to see me, ma'am?
i want you to help my little girl.
I am only a student.
georgina told me how kind you were to her.  it gave me hope you might intercede for us with dr. macfarlane.
i do not know that i can do that, mrs. marsh.
did he tell you about georgina?
i did not mean it that way.  i meant only that i am not in a position to ask favors.
ask this one favor --
of course i will.
i do not think i can go on, sir.
what the devil do you mean?  you have your lodgings, a certain stipend -- i thought i had arranged everything for you --
i saw the woman whose son's body was delivered last night.
and that is why you do not want to be a doctor, fettes?
not if i have to be party to things like that, dr. macfarlane.
but this woman -- and her son --
I am sorry for the woman, fettes. but her son might be alive today had more doctors been given the opportunity to work on more human specimens.  as for me, fettes, i let no man stop me when i know I am right -- when i know that i need those lifeless subjects for my student's enlightenment and for my own knowledge.  and if you are a real man and want to be a good doctor, you will see it as i see it.
come, toddy -- come.  sit down here with me.
do not call me that confounded name.
well, then, doctor macfarlane -- although I have known a time, toddy, when you liked the name.  aye, and many are dead now who called you by it; rough and wild ones they were, too.  but come toddy, sit down here with your young friend.
mr. fettes and i have professional matters to discuss.
medicine?  that will keep.  sit down.
i will not have you use that name to me.
you will not have it?
dr. macfarlane -- you remember the lady who came to see you yesterday -- the lady with the little girl?
i remember her.
she came again today.  she wanted me to ask you if you would not break your rule and operate.  she feels you are her only hope.
so she told me.  I am a teacher -- not a practitioner.
you are a teacher, eh?  maybe you are afraid to be a doctor, toddy.
afraid of what?
afraid you are not as good a doctor perhaps as you make out to be.
i am the best man for the job.
why do not you do it then?
you?  why?  since when have you become the protector of little children?
I am not concerned about the child, toddy.  it is you I am thinking of, I would like to see you prove that a lot of things i know have not hurt toddy macfarlane any.
I will not do it, gray.
oh, yes, you will.  you will do it to oblige fettes and myself.
no.
maybe there is some private reason between you and me which will make you -- some long lost friend of ours.  say that you will do it for me and my friend, mr. fettes, here.
it might be an interesting case.
that is a good boy, toddy.
toddy hates me.
do not call me that confounded name, i tell you.
hear him?  did you ever see the lads play knife?
you have his promise, then?
yes.
-- pain -- and shock.  she is brave enough, but i do not know about myself.  now that it seems so close, i wonder if i dare trust my child into any but god's hands. maybe he knows best.
ma'am, is you will allow me, I would like to give you cause for courage -- dr. macfarlane is a great man -- i think he is the greatest man in medicine.  god would not have given him such gifts if they were not meant for georgina's cure.
hear him?
the white horse.  the horse that is going to greet me when he sees me.
an old acquaintance, eh?
why do you want the white horse to bid you "good-day"?
he was a nice horse.
maybe there is another reason. maybe you have not friends enough. could that be it, georgina?
of course -- i do not have friends. that is because i can not walk.  i try to make myself used to it.
one should not get used to the wrong things, georgina.  you want to walk and run and play.
aye, but i still wonder how much.
i want it --
but you will have to stand great pain, georgina.  greater pain than you ever dreamed of in the worst time of your sickness.  do you want it that much?
you are daft.  what is gray to me. he is only a man from whom i buy what i need when i need it -- the rest is forgotten.
you may deny the devil, toddy, but you will not rid yourself of him by saying the devil is dead.
nonsense.  you are a fey creature with mad ideas.  but you have a wildness that holds me to you, lass.
no great lady will ever take my place?
it was about last night i wanted to talk to you -- about the operation on the little marsh girl.
you are a man of the world, fettes, you would not hold me to promise given in drink.
but i -- well, you see, sir, i met mrs. marsh and told her.
really, fettes, you irk me with your lack of understanding.
but you did promise.
look here, fettes.  not i nor anyone else knows enough about the spinal column and its intricacies to insure success in such an operation.  i would have to study the matter.  have we any "subjects"?
wilmont used up the last spinal section.
you see, it is completely out of the question.
yes, i suppose so.
now you run off and see that pretty mrs. marsh and explain to her.
i fear he may have to.
but can not you give me any idea?
how could i?  i will do my best. after all, you see, i am financially interested.
there, master fettes.  sooner than we had expected.  a stoke of luck one might say.
good.
every street singer with a cracked voice gives tongue to that one.
this girl was beautiful -- a wild lassie from the highlands.
well --
gray killed her.
we can not be sure of that.
i am sure.  i mean to report it. it is like burke and hare all over again.
i would not do that, fettes.  i would not report it.
grave robbing is one thing -- this is murder.
i do not know that -- neither do you.  this subject may have been an epileptic -- thrown a fit -- fallen out of bed -- cracked her skull and killed herself -- there is everything explained -- the bruise on her head --
i can not believe that.
believe it or not.  it is best for you to pretend that you do.  after all, it was you who ordered this specimen, received it here, and paid for it.  that makes you a party to murder.
but, i did not ask him to kill.
who would believe that?  and you know, someone else might recognize her.  she was as well known as the castle rock.
here is where you must watch closely, gentleman -- closely -- it is the very heart of the matter --
wait, doctor -- wait!  the child's fainting.
she is unconscious.
pulse?
now that was not a friendly thing i heard, toddy.  not at all friendly.
that has nothing to do with it. we have decided to do more lecturing and less dissection -- it is better for the students -- that is all there is to it.
you know what you want and do not want -- so that is an end of business between us -- but we will still be friends, toddy.  I will be dropping by to see you and meg once in a while -- for auld lang syne, you know.
i suppose we can not prevent that, gray --  -- for auld lang syne.
i presume you shall.  this will not be my last visit here.
i want to speak to you alone.  i saw something.  i heard.
what did you hear?
i know --
oh, you will have ample opportunity -- ample --  good morning, dr. fettes.
good morning.
i just saw gray.  what was he laughing at?
he has his own idea of a joke. perhaps his horse tickled him in the ribs.
I have just been to see mrs. marsh. georgina is doing splendidly.  the incision has healed -- clean and fine -- but she does not seem to have any desire to walk.
when she is ready you bring her to me -- I will show her how.
dr. macfarlane, i wonder if you know what happiness you have brought those people.
that is only our duty, fettes -- that is the end at which we aim with all this nasty business.
i suppose one must pass through this purgatory to the heaven of being a good doctor.
that is the way of it, fettes.  you bring the lassie to me.
do not you want to find the white horse, georgina?  you can not find him from a wheelchair.  you have to walk and run to find him.
i can't.
you can not -- can't!  stop trying to bribe her with childishness about white horses. let the child stand and walk -- her spine's all right.  i know it is all right.
but she must want to stand.  she must want to walk.
confound me, the child's a cripple, of course she wants to walk.  child, i say to you get up out of that chair and walk.
I am sorry, doctor.  georgina's a good child -- a brave child -- you saw how she was during the operation -- but if she can not move, she can not move.
but she must be able to move. everything is in place.
she would if she could.
then all my surgery is no good. there is something wrong with the child -- something i do not know -- something i can not define -- can not diagnose.  i can do nothing for her.
oh, it is you, gray. well, come in. sit down. have a glass with me.
you are uncommon friendly tonight, toddy. more like the old days.
you know something about the human body, gray.
I have had some experience.
then you can understand that the backbone is a lot of little blocks and those little blocks are all held together, so that it works like that whip of yours. you know that, do not you?
I have never had it all explained that way to me by so learned a man.
i set those blocks together, patched the muscles. i put the nerves where they should be -- i did it and i did it right -- and she will not walk --
oh, it is the bit of a girl fettes was talking about.
the same. look here, gray --
you can not build life like you put together blocks, toddy.
what are you talking about? i am an anatomist. i know the body. i know how it works.
and you are a fool, toddy -- and no doctor. it is only the dead ones that you know.
i am a doctor. i teach medicine.
like knox taught you? like i taught you? in cellars and graveyards? did knox teach you what makes the blood flow?
the heart pumps it.
did he tell you how thoughts come and how they go and why things are remembered and forgot?
the nerve centers -- the brain --
but what makes a thought start?
in the brain, i tell you. i know.
you do not know and you will never know or understand, toddy. not from me or from knox would you learn those things. look --
i am a doctor - a good doctor. i could make her walk, but she will not - she will not --
here, have another glass, macfarlane. I will take you home and we will be friends again -- now that you know that you are knox's man and my friend -- aye, forever.
why should i be afraid of you? what are you holding over me?
I will tell you what, toddy. it is because i ran down the streets with the mud and the stones around my ears and the mob yelling for my blood. it is because you were afraid to face it -- and you are still afraid.
no, I am not afraid. tell! shout it from the housetops!  and remember this -- they hanged burke -- they mobbed hare -- but dr. knox is living like a gentleman in london.
aye, toddy, there is something in what you say.
there is much in what i say, gray, and if you have any regard for your neck you will leave now and stay away from my house, my school, and from me.
i have no wish for a rope cravat. I have never liked the smell of hemp, so I will bid you good night, doctor macfarlane.
you are welcome to my little nest, joseph -- is it not? that is right -- you have something to say to  me -- something very private.
yes.
now that is very interesting --  take a chair, joseph,
can anyone hear what we say?
only brother.
i know that you kill people to sell bodies.
you say you have come here on your own account?  no one knows you are here?
give me money or I will tell the police you murder the "subjects."
i have made you give me money, but you smile. are not you angry?
no, joseph. I am not angry -- here -- another glass of brandy --i'll wager it is better than the doctor's.
you and i should work together.
you mean we would sell the bodies to the doctors together? dig them up?
no digging joseph. the churchyards are too well guarded. we will "burke" them,
burke them?
you are lately come to scotland, joseph?
i come from lisbon.
but still you may have heard the peddlers of verse cry out their names on the streets.
"the ruffian dogs, the hellish pair.  the villain burke, the meager hare --"
i never heard that song. but what did they do?
eighteen persons they killed and sold the bodies to dr. knox at ten pounds for a large and eight pounds for a small. that is good business, joseph.
but where did they get those people?
that was hare's end. ah, you should have seen him on the streets, when he saw some old beldam deep in drink how he cozened her!
"a good-day to you madame tosspot, and would you like a little glass of something before you take your rest? come with me to my house and I will make you my guest. you shall have quarts to drink if you like."  ah, how he cozened them.
we could do that. but when he had them there, then what?
"nor did they handle axe or knife to take away their victim's life -- no sooner done than in a chest they crammed their lately welcome guest."
i do not understand the song. tell me plain how they did it.
I will show you how it was done, joseph. -- I will show you how they "burked" them.
what are you going here? have i not told you --
would you grudge me a glass with my old crony, meg?
crony indeed!
you can get out.
i brought you something tonight, macfarlane -- an interesting specimen -- in very good condition.
I have ordered nothing from you.
this is a gift.
i take no gifts from you.
this is a gift you will not return.
get out of here!
wait, toddy. that is not hospitable. i want to discuss business.
you are not to set foot in here again, gray, for business or any other reason. and you are going out now!
fettes -- where is fettes?
I will get him.
fettes, the more things are wrong, the more we must act as if everything were right. you must do with joseph as you did with, the street singer -- complete dissection -- a proper entry in the book --
no.
what do you mean, fettes?
I will have no more to do with it. I will not put my neck into the noose, not even for your sake, dr. macfarlane.
do not be a fool.  one can not begin and then stop -- and because that entry of the girl's body is in your hand, you will do as i say. as for me, I will tend to gray.
you are not going to gray.
he must leave me alone.
you must leave this house.
i can not do that -- you heard macfarlane.
save yourself. master fettes look at macfarlane and be warned.
he is a great doctor -- a great man --
is it a great man whom gray can order to his bidding? is it a great man who for very shame dare not acknowledge his own wife so that i must play maidservant for the world's sake and his success?
he could have been a great man -- a good man and a fine doctor, but there was always the shame of the old life and the old ways to hold him back -- and always gray -- gray to hound him to his death.
you are over-excited, mistress cameron.
I am cold as ice.
but gray's only a cab driver -- a resurrection man who robs graves to make a bit of money now and again.
if he were only that. the man's evil himself. some day you will know him as macfarlane knows him -- for macfarlane he was to knox as you are to him. that brought him close to gray, he roistered with him and drank with him. aye, and gray even brought him to my door and my love. there is all that between them and more -- burke and hare and knox --
but that is long since.  gray can not threaten him with that.
gray has no need to threaten. you remember the trial?
i heard my parents speak of it in thrums. it was a famous case.
and did you hear them speak of the porter who testified against burke?
aye.
they did not tell you how that porter cried out in the witness box when the kings counselor pressed him hard -- how he cried out that he was shielding a gentleman of consequence.
that porter was gray and the gentleman of consequence who could not swallow the shame of it -- who took my last paltry savings to hire gray --
macfarlane
listen to me, fettes, I am one part befuddled with drink, one part over-heels in love with macfarlane, and one part fey. you are a lowlander, fettes, and you have no way of knowing what we highlanders call the second sight.
I have heard of it.
it is a gift to my people -- and i see macfarlane and gray-- the pit yawns for them and the flames -- and i would have you away from them and safe out of the torment.--
gray, i must rid myself of you -- you have become a cancer -- a malignant, evil cancer -- rotting my mind.
so, toddy, you have made me a disease, eh?
i can not understand your hurt to me -- but i must cut you out.
surely you are not threatening an old friend, toddy.
we have never been friends.
have another glass of something good, toddy.
I have drunk enough tonight.
another little drop'll never do you any harm.
you are getting old, gray, and it is a hard life driving a cab through these wet and windy streets of edinburgh --
i have other means of sustenance.
the resurrection business? that may end sooner than you think. new laws may come.
what i was going to say is this -- would not you be more comfortable at leith in a neat little house?
would you bribe me to leave you be?
i would make you rich.
it would not be half so much fun for me. toddy, as to have you come here and beg --
beg -- beg of you! you crawling graveyard rat!
well then -- i beg you -- i beseech you --
but then i would not have the fun of having you come here and beg again, toddy.
but why, gray? why?
because it would be a hurt to me to see you no more, toddy. you are a pleasure to me.
a pleasure to torment me?
no -- a pride to know that i can force you to my will. I am a small man -- a humble man -- and being poor, I have had to do much that i did not want to do. but so long as the great dr. macfarlane jumps at my whistle, that long am i a man -- and if i have not that, i have nothing. then i am only a cabman and a grave-robber.
you have been with gray again.
aye.
good morning, mrs. marsh.
good morning, mr. fettes.
i thought this was a school day.
i am not at the school anymore. i left last night.
it is not because of georgina -- because of dr. macfarlane's failure?
it is not the failure. i feel that macfarlane has taught me nothing. he taught me the mathematics of anatomy but he could not teach me the poetry of medicine.
even so, i could never think of going on -- I have got to find some other profession.
it is a pity.
you will not need that again, georgina.
i wanted to see the white horse --
he is not home.
where can i find him?
you do not went to find him. your news will keep until i tell him.
but i must tell him -- he must know of it. please -- tell me where he is.
there is no standing between a fool and his folly. if you must babble your news to him he is at the fisherman's tryst. it is the inn at pennycuik. you can use macfarlane's horse and gig to get there. he will welcome the ride back.
at pennycuik.  i know the inn.  i can be there in an hour.
and back with macfarlane and all that he stands for the next day.
what is that you say?
the little girl -- she could not walk far -- the muscles are too weak -- but she did stand and she took a step or two.
i know it -- i know it -- the moment i was rid of him --
what?
gray -- I am rid of him --
see that, fettes?
a burial party -- poor people -- it is hard to bury a loved one on a rainy day when the churchyard is so cold and lonely.
glencorse -- that is a lonely cemetery, fettes, not a soul around for miles.
they will be thinking of that, too.
tosh!  fettes!  it is not their grief I am worrying about -- I am talking of our own end --
you have no thought of going there?
did you think gray was the only one who could handle a mattock and shovel?  I have had some practice in the art.
you could not do that, doctor.
i pass up no opportunities, I have a whole course of lectures in mind for you fellows.  we will need subjects to demonstrate. come along.
no.
why not? i must have subjects. it is the only way i can teach. it is the only way you can learn. the stupidity of the people the idiocy of their laws will not stop no -- nor will they force me to deal with such reptilian creatures as gray. we can do our own dirty work -- and we must.
where shall we put it? in the back?
no room there. we will have to set it between us.
this is not a woman!
it was a woman when we put her in.
hold that lamp up -- i must see her face.
