how about a lift, mister?
can not you see that sticker?
goin' far?
just a few miles. I would a walked her if my dogs was not pooped out.
lookin' for a job?
no, my old man got a place, forty acres. he is a sharecropper, but we been there a long time.
oh!
been doin' a job?
yeah.
i seen your hands. you been swinging a pick or a sledge--that shines up your hands. i notice little things like that all the time.  got a trade?
why do not you get to it, buddy?
get to what?
you know what i mean. you been givin' me a goin' over ever since i got in. whyn't you go on and ask me where i been?
i do not stick my nose in nobody's business.
naw--not much!
i stay in my own yard.
listen. that big nose of yours been goin' over me like a sheep in a vegetable patch. but i am not keepin' it a secret. i been in the penitentiary. been there four years. like to know anything else?
you am not got to get sore.
go ahead. ask me anything you want.
i did not mean nothing.
me neither. I am just tryin' to get along without shovin' anybody around, that is all.  see that road up ahead?
yeah.
that is where i get off.
i never asked you!
sure, but you would a throwed a fit if i had not tol' you.
say, am not you young tom joad--ol' tom's boy?
yeah. on my way home now.
well, i do declare!  i baptized you, son.
why, you are the preacher!
*used* to be. not no more. i lost the call.  but boy, i sure *used* to have it! I would get an irrigation ditch so squirmin' full of repented sinners i pretty near *drowned* half of 'em!  but not no more. i lost the sperit.
pa always said you was never cut out to be a preacher.
i got nothin' to preach about no more--that's all. i am not so sure o' things.
maybe you should a got yourself a wife.
at my meetin's i used to get the girls glory-shoutin' till they about passed out. then, I would go to comfort 'em--and always end up by lovin' 'em. I would feel bad, an' pray, an' pray, but it did not do no good. next time, do it again. i figgered there just was not no hope for me.
i never let one go by me when i could catch her.
but you was not a preacher. a girl was just a girl to you. but to me they was holy vessels. i was savin' their souls.  i ast myself--what *is* this call, the holy sperit? maybe *that's* love. why, i love everybody so much I am fit to bust sometimes!  so maybe there am not no sin an' there am not no virtue. there is just what people do. some things folks do is nice, and some am not so nice. but that is as far as any man's got a right to say.
have a little snort?
course I will say grace if somebody sets out the food--  --but my heart am not in it.  nice drinkin' liquor.
ought to be. that is fact'ry liquor. cost me a buck.
been out travelin' around?
did not you hear? it was in the papers.
no, i never. what?
i been in the penitentiary for four years.
excuse me for asking.
i do not mind any more. I would do what i done again. i killed a guy at a dance. we was drunk. he got a knife in me and i laid him out with a shovel. knocked his head plumb to squash.
and you am not ashamed?
he had a knife in me. that is why they only gave me seven years. got out in four--parole.
am not you seen your folks since then?
no, but i aim to before sundown. gettin' kind of excited about it, too. which way you going?
it do not matter. ever since i lost the sperit it looks like i just as soon go one way as the other.  I will go your way.
maybe ma'll have pork for supper. i am not had pork but four times in four years--every christmas.
I will be glad to see you pa. last time i seen him was at a baptizin', an' he had one a the bigges' doses of the holy sperit i ever seen. he go to jumpin' over bushes, howlin' like a dog-wolf in moon-time. fin'ly he picks hisself out a bush big as a piana an' he let out a squawk an' took a run at that bush. well, sir, he cleared her but he bust his leg snap in two. they was a travellin' dentist there and he set her, an' i give her a prayin' over, but they was not no more holy sperit in your pa after that.
lissen. this wind's fixin't to *do* somepin'!
shore it is. it always is, this time a year.
is it fur?
just around that next bend.
your granma was a great one, too. the third time she got religion she go it so powerful she knocked down a full-growed deacon with her fist.
that is our place.
they are all gone--or dead.
they never wrote you nothing?
no. they was not people to write.
this used to be mine. i give it to grampa when i went away.  you reckon they could be dead?
i never heard nothin' about it.
tommy?
muley! where is my folks, muley?
they gone.
i know that! but *where* they gone?
this is muley graves.  you remember the preacher, do not you?
i am not no preacher anymore.
all right, you remember the *man* then.
gone--  --over to your uncle john's. the whole crowd of 'em, two weeks ago. but they can not stay there either, because john's got *his* notice to get off.
but what is happened?  how come they got to get off? we been here fifty years--same place.
ever'body got to get off. ever'body leavin', goin' to california. my folks, your folks, ever'body's folks.  ever'body but me. i am not gettin' off.
but who done it?
listen!  that is some of what done it--the dusters. started it, anyway. blowin' like this, year after year--blowin' the land away, blowin' the crops away, blowin' us away now.
are you crazy?
some say i am.  you want to hear what happened?
that is what i asked you, am not it?
fact of the matter, muley, after what them dusters done to the land, the tenant system do not work no more. it do not even break even, much less show a profit. one man on a tractor can handle twelve or fourteen of these places. you just pay him a wage and take *all* the crop.
but we could not *do* on any less'n what our share is now.  the chillun am not gettin' enough to eat as it is, and they are so ragged we would be shamed if ever'body else's chillun was not the same way.
i can not help that. all i know is i got my orders. they told me to tell you you got to get off, and that is what I am telling you.
you mean get off my own land?
now do not go blaming me. it am not *my* fault.
who is the shawnee land and cattle comp'ny?
it am not nobody. it is a company.
then who *do* we shoot?
brother, i do not know. if i did I would tell you. but i just do not know *who's* to blame!
well, I am right here to tell you, mister, am not *nobody* going to push me off *my* land! grampa took up this land seventy years ago. my pa was born here. we was *all* born on it, and some of us got killed on it, and some died on it. and that is what makes it ourn--bein' born on it, and workin' it, and dyin' on it--and not no piece of paper with writin' on it! so just come on and try to push me off!
well?
they come. they come and pushed me off.
i do not like nobody drawin' a bead on me.
then what are you doin' this kind a thing for--against your own people?
for three dollars a day, that is what I am doin' it for. i got two little kids. i got a wife and my wife's mother. them people got to eat. fust and on'y thing i got to think about is my own folks. what happens to other folks is their lookout.
but this is *my land*, son. do not you understand?
*used* to be your land. b'longs to the comp'ny now.
what is he fixin' to do, ma?
hush!
have it your own way, son, but just as sure as you touch my house with that cat I am going to blow you plumb to kingdom come.
you am not going to blow nobody nowhere. first place, you would get hung and you know it. for another, it would not be two days before they would have another guy here to take my place.
what was the use. he was right. there was not a thing in the world i could do about it.
but it do not seem possible--kicked off like that!
the rest of my fambly set out for the west--there was not nothin' to eat--but i could not leave. somepin' would not let me. so now i just wander around. sleep wherever i am. i used to tell myself i was lookin' out for things, so when they come back ever'thing would be all right. but i knowed that wan't true. there am not nothin' to look out for. and am not nobody comin' back. they are gone-- and me, I am just an 'ol graveyard ghost--that's all in the world i am.
she is settlin'.
what you figger to do?
it is hard to say. stay here till mornin' an' then go on over to uncle john's, i reckon. after that i do not know.
listen!  that is them! them lights! come on, we got to hide out!
hide out for what? we am not doin' nothin'.
you are *trespassin'*! it am not you lan' no more! an' that is the supr'tendant--with a gun!
all you got to do is lay down an' watch.
will not they come out here?
i do not think so. one come out here once an' i clipped him from behin' with a fence stake. they am not bothered since.
thank god. oh thank god.  tommy, you did not *bust* out, didya? you am not got to hide, have you?
no, ma. I am paroled. i got my papers.
i was so scared we was goin' away without you--and we would never see each other again.
I would a found you, ma.
muley tol' me what happened, ma. are we goin' to california true?
we *got* to, tommy. but that is going to be awright. i seen the han'bills, about how much work they is, an' high wages, too. but i got to fin' out somepin' else first, tommy.  did they hurt you, son? did they hurt you an' make you mean-mad?
mad, ma?
sometimes they do.
no, ma i was at first--but not no more.
sometimes they do somethin' to you, tommy. they hurt you--and you get mad--and then you get mean--and they hurt you again--and you get meaner, and meaner--till you am not no boy or no man any more, but just a walkin' chunk a mean-mad. did they hurt you like that, tommy?
no, ma. you do not have to worry about that.
thank god. i--i do not want no mean son
you know what i al'ays said: "tom'll come bustin' outa that jail like a bull through a corral fence." can not keep no joad in jail!
i did not bust out. they lemme out. howya, noah. howya, uncle john.
that is connie rivers with her. they are married now.  she is due about three-four months.
why, she was not no more'n a kid when i went up.
you bust outa jail, tom?
naw. they paroled me.
oh.
heh'o tom.  this is connie, my husband.
if this do not beat all!  well, i see you been busy already!
you do not see either!--not yet!
how you get all this money?
sol' things, chopped cotton--even grampa. got us about two hunnerd dollars all tol'. shucked out seventy- five for this truck, but we still got nearly a hunnerd and fifty to set out on. i figger we oughta be able to make it on that.
easy. after all, they am not but about *twelve* of us, is they?
she will prob'ly ride like a bull calf-- but she will ride!
reckon we better begin roustin' 'em out if we aim to get outa here by daylight. how about it, john? how you boys comin'?
how about it, ma?
I am ready.
think she will hold?
if she does it will be a miracle outa scripture.
what is the matter, grampa?
am not nothin' the matter. i just am not a-goin', that is all.
what you mean you am not goin'? we *got* to go. we got no place to stay.
i am not talkin' about you, I am talkin' about me. and I am a-stayin'. i give her a good goin' over all night long-- and I am a-stayin'.
but you can not *do* that, grampa. this here land is goin' under the tractor. we *all* got to git out.
all but me! I am a-stayin'.
how 'bout granma?
take her with you!
now listen, grampa. listen to me, just a minute.
and i am not going to listen either. i tol' you what I am going to do.  and i do not give a hoot in a hollow if they's oranges and grapes crowdin' a fella outa bed even, i am not a- goin' to california!  this here's my country. i b'long *here*.  it am not no good--  --but it is mine.
ma. pa.  grampa, his eyes hurt and hunted and frightened and bewildered, scratches in the dirt.
and can not nobody *make* me go, either! am not nobody here *man* enough to make me! I am a-stayin'.
either we got to tie him up and *throw* him on the truck, or somepin. he can not stay here.
can not tie him. either we will hurt him or he will git so mad he will hurt his self.  reckon we could git him *drunk*?
am not no whisky, is they?
wait. there is a half a bottle a soothin' sirup here.  it put the chillun to sleep.
do not taste bad.
and they's some coffee here. i could fix him a cup...
that is right. and douse some in it.
easy, *easy!* you wanta bust his head wide open? pull his arms, john.
am not a-goin', thas all...
put somepin' over him, so he will not git sun-struck.  ever'body set now?  awright, al, letta go!
here we go!
california, here we come!
am not you going to look back, ma?--give the old place a last look?
we are goin' to california, am not we? awright then, let's *go* to california.
that do not sound like you, ma. you never was like that before.
i never had my house pushed over before. i never had my fambly stuck out on the road. i never had to lose... ever'thing i had in life.
*ain't* a-goin'... am not a-goin'...
's all right, grampa. you just kind a tar'd, that is all. somebody fix a pallet.
i figger best we leave something like this on him, lest somebody dig him up and make out he been kilt.  lotta times looks like the gov'ment got more interest in a dead man than a live one.
not be so lonesome, either, knowin' his name is there with 'im, not just' a old fella lonesome underground.
casy, will not you say a few words?
i am not no more a preacher, you know.
we know. but am not none of our folks ever been buried without a few words.
I will say 'em--an' make it short.  this here old man jus' lived a life an' jus' died out of it. i do not know whether he was good or bad, an' it do not matter much. heard a fella say a poem once, an' he says, "all that lives is holy." but i would not pray for jus' a old man that is dead, because he is awright. if i was to pray I would pray for the folks that is alive an' do not know which way to turn. grampa here, he am not got no more trouble like that. he is got his job all cut out for 'im--so cover 'im up and let 'im get to it.
yes'm, that was it.
your pa tol' me you did not ought to cross it if you are paroled. says they will send you up again.
forget it, ma. i got her figgered out. long as i keep outa trouble, am not nobody going to say a thing. all i got to do is keep my nose clean.
maybe they got crimes in california we do not know about. crimes we do not even know *is* crimes.
forget it, ma. jus' think about the nice things out there. think about them grapes and oranges--an' ever'body got work--
they shore do not waste no time!  take her out.
save your strength, lady.  get goin', buddy. no campin' here.
we am not campin'. we jus' stoppin' a minute--
lissen, i heard that before--
ma... all this, will it hurt the baby?
now do not you go gettin' nimsy-mimsy.
sometimes I am all jumpy inside.
well, can not nobody get through nine *months* without sorrow.
but will it--hurt the baby?
they use' to be a sayin': a chile born outa sorrow'll be a happy chile. an' another: born outa too much joy'll be a doleful boy. that is the way i always heard it.
you do not ever get scairt, do you, ma?
sometimes. a little. only it am not scairt so much. it is just waitin' an' wonderin'. but when sump'n happens that i got to do sump'n--  --i'll do it.
do not it ever scare you it will not be nice in california like we think?
no. no, it don't. i can not do that. i can not let m'self. all i can do is see how soon they going to wanta eat again. they would all get upset if i done anymore 'n that. they all depen' on me jus' thinkin' about that.  that is my part--that an' keepin' the fambly together.
good wages, eh! pickin' oranges an' peaches?
we gonna take whatever they got.
whatta you think you are talkin' about? i got a han'bill here says good wages, an' i seen it in the papers they need pickers!
awright, go on! am not nobody stoppin' ya!
but what about this?
i am not going to fret you. go on!
but what does *that* prove?
look at 'em! same yella han'bill-- 800 pickers wanted. awright, this man wants 800 men. so he prints up 5,000 a them han'bills an' maybe 20,000 people sees 'em. an' maybe two-three thousan' starts movin, wes' account a this han'bill. two- three thousan' folks that is crazy with worry headin' out for 800 jobs! does that make sense?
how about us? is that the truth for us?
i do not know.
kinda pie y'got?
banana cream, pineapple cream, chocolate cream--and apple.
cut me off a hunk a that banana cream, and a cuppa java.
yeah?
could you see your way clear to sell us a loaf of bread, ma'am.
this am not a groc'ry store. we got bread to make san'widges with.
i know, ma'am... on'y it is for a ole lady, no teeth, got to sof'n it with water so she can chew it, an' she is hongry.
whyn't you buy a san'wich? we got nice san'widges.
i shore would like to do that, ma'am, but the fack is, we am not got but a dime for it. it is all figgered out, i mean--for the trip.
you can not get no loaf a bread for a dime. we only got fifteen-cent loafs.
this here's a fifteen-cent loaf.
would you--could you see your way to cuttin' off ten cents worth?
you can have this for ten cents.
i do not wanta rob you, ma'am.
go ahead--bert says take it.
which ones?
there, them stripy ones.
oh, them? well, no--them's *two* for a penny.
well, give me two then, ma'am.
them was not two-for-a-cent candy.
what is it to you?
them was nickel apiece candy.
so long.
hey, wait a minute. you got change comin'.
where you going?
california.
how long you plan to be in arizona?
no longer'n we can get acrost her.
got any plants?
no plants.
okay. go ahead, but you better keep movin'.
sure. we aim to.
maybe it is nice on the other side. them pitchers--them little pos'cards-- they was real pretty.
aw, sure. this here's jus' a part of it. am not no sense a gettin' scairt right off.
got that desert yet. got to take her tonight. take her in the daytime fella says she will cut your gizzard out.
how is granma since we got her in the tent?
she is jus' wore out, that is all.
i shore would like to stop here a while an' give her some res' but we on'y got 'bout forty dollars left. i will not feel right till we are there an' all workin' an' a little money comin' in.
ya know, you are the second fella talked like that. I would like to hear some more about that.
me an' you both.
you people got a lotta nerve.
what you mean?
crossin' the desert in a jalopy like this.
you been acrost?
sure, plenty, but not in no wreck like this.
if we broke down maybe somebody'd give us a han'.
well, maybe. but I would hate to be doin' it. takes more nerve than i got.
it do not take no nerve to do somep'n when there am not nothin' else you can do.
what a place! how did you like to walk acrost her?
people done it. if they could, we could.
lots must a died, too.
well, we am not out a it yet.
this here's the desert an' we are right in it!
i wisht it was day.
tom says if it is day it will cut you gizzard smack out a you.  i seen a pitcher once. they was bones ever'place.
man bones?
some, i guess, but mos'ly cow bones.
seems like we was not never going to do nothin' but move. I am so tar'd.
women is always tar'd.
you ain't--you am not sorry, are you, honey?
no, but--but you seen that advertisement in the spicy western story magazine. do not pay nothin'. jus' send 'em the coupon an' you are a radio expert--nice clean work.
but we can still do it, honey.
i ought to done it then--an' not come on any trip like this.
will ya look at her!
i never knowed they was anything like her!
ma, you sick?
ya say we are acrost?
look, ma!
thank god!  an' we are still together-- most of us.
didn' you get no sleep?
no.
was granma bad?
granma's dead.
when?
since before they stopped us las' night.
an' that is why you did not want 'em to look?
i was afraid they would stop us an' would not let us cross. but i tol' granma. i tol' her when she was dyin'. i tol' her the fambly had ta get acrost. i tol' her we could not take no chances on bein' stopped.
she shore do not look prosperous. want to go somewheres else?
on a gallon a gas?  let's set up the tent. maybe i can fix us up some stew.
i could break up some bresh if you want me, ma'am.
you want to get ast to eat, hunh?
yes, ma'am.
didn' you have no breakfast?
no, ma'am. they am not no work hereabouts. pa's in tryin' to sell some stuff to get gas so's we can get along.
didn' none of these have no breakfast?
how 'bout it?
go get tom an' al.  i dunno what to do. i got to feed the fambly. what'm i going to do with these here?
you take this.  i am not hungry.
whatta ya mean? you am not et today.
i know, but i got a stomickache. i am not hungry.
you take that plate inside the tent an' you eat it.
would not be no use. I would still see 'em inside the tent.
you git. go on now, git. you am not doin' no good. they am not enough for you.
you doin' the hirin'?
well, I am contracting the land.
all right, mister. I will go. you just show your license to contrack, an' then you make out a order--where an' when an' how much you going to pay--an' you sign it an' we will go.
you trying to tell me how to run my own business?
'f we are workin' for you, it is our business too. an' how do we know--  --you am not one a the guys that sent these things out?
listen, smart guy. I will run my business my own way. i got work. if you wanta take it, okay. if not, just sit here, that is all.
twicet now I have fell for that line. maybe he needs a thousan' men. so he get's five thousan' there, an' he will pay fifteen cents a hour. an' you guys'll have to take it 'cause you will be hungry.  'f he wants to hire men, let him write it out an' say what he is going to pay. ast to see his license. he am not allowed by law to contrack men without a license.
joe!
gimme that gun. now git outa here. go down in them willows an' wait.
i am not going to run.
he seen you, tom! you wanta be fingerprinted? you wanta get sent back for breakin' parole?
you are right!
hide in the willows. if it is awright to come back I will give you four high whistles.
go on. get in your tent. you do not know nothin'.
how 'bout you?
*some*body got to take the blame. they just *got* to hang it on somebody, you know.  an' i am not doin' nothin' but set around.
but am not no reason--
lissen. i do not care nothin' about you, but if you mess in this, your whole fambly li'ble to get in trouble, an' tom get sent back to the penitentiary.
okay. i think you are a darn fool, though.
sure. why not?
leave him alone, ma--al's just billy- goatin' around--
sure! i was just aimin' to meet up with a couple girls i know.
you do not know *no* girls around here. you are lyin', *you're runnin' away*!
cut it out, ma, or i'll--
you will *what*?... come on, pa. come on an' whup me. jus' try it.
now do not get sassy, ma.
al am not a-goin' away, an' you going to *tell* him he am not a-goin' away.  an' if you think diff'unt, you got to whup me first. so some on.
i never *seen* her so sassy.  an' she am not so young, neither!
I would come back--
but ef you *do* whup me, i swear you better not ever go to sleep again, because the minute you go to sleep, or you are settin' down, or your back's turned, I am going to knock you belly-up with a bucket.
jus' sassy, that is all.
sassy my foot! I am jus' sick and tar'd a my folks tryin' to bust up. all we got lef' in the *worl'* is the fambly--an' right down at bottom that is all we *got* to have! ef some of us dies, we can not he'p that--but am not nobody else runnin' away!
but it am not runnin' away, ma. all i wanta do is go away with another fella an' look aroun' for work by ourself--
well, you am not a-goin'! am not *nobody* else a-goin'! we *got* here an' we going to *stay* here, together! as long as we got the fambly unbroke i am not scared, but it is a long bitter road we got ahead of us--  --an' I am here to tell ya ef anybody else tries to bust us up anymore I am a-goin' cat wild with this here piece a bar-arn!
tom? you can come on. they gone.
we got to get outa here right away. ever'body here? where is uncle john?
connie's gone.  lit out this e'enin'--said he did not know it was going to be like this.
glad to get shet of him. never was no good an' never will be--
pa! shh!
how come i got to shh? run out, did not he?
cut it out, pa. he'p al with the truck.  do not fret, honey. you goin' to be awright.
tom, i jus' do not feel like nothin' a tall. without him i jus' do not wanta live.
maybe he will be back. we will leave word for him. jus' do not cry.
just in case. sit up back an' if anybody tries to climb up--let 'im have it.
i am not got nothin' in *my* han'.
give 'im a fryin' pan.
maybe connie went to get some books to study up with. he is going to be a radio expert, ya know. maybe he figgered to suprise us.
maybe that is jus' what he done.
ma, they comes a time when a man gets mad.
tom--you tol' me--you promised you was not like that. you promised me.
i know, ma. I am a tryin'. if it was the law they was workin' with, we could take it. but it *ain't* the law. they are workin' away at our spirits. they are tryin' to make us cringe an' crawl. they are workin' on our decency.
you promised, tommy.
I am a-tryin', ma. honest i am.
you got to keep clear, tom. the fambly's breakin' up. you *got* to keep clear.
what is that--detour?
sump'n got to happen soon. we got one day's more grease, two day's flour, an' ten potatoes. after that...  an' rosasharn, we got to remember she is going to be due soon.
it sure is hell jus' tryin' to get enough to eat.
morning.
morning.
you people looking for work?
mister, we are lookin' even under boards for work.
can you pick peaches?
we can pick anything.
well, there is plenty of work for you about forty miles north, this road just outside pixley. turn east on 32 and look for hooper's ranch. tell 'em spencer sent you.
fust thing I will get is coffee, cause ever'body been wantin' that, an' then some flour an' bakin' powder an' meat. better not get no side- meat right off. save that for later. maybe sat'dy. got to get some soap too. an' milk. rosasharn's got to have some milk.
get some sugar too, for the coffee.
you know, i jus' can not remember when i felt so good before!
fella named spencer sent us--said they was work pickin' peaches.
want to work, do you?
sure do.
pull up behind that car.  okay for this one. take 'em through.
what is the matter? what is happened?
little trouble up ahead, but you will get through. just follow the line.
maybe the road's out.
i do not know what these cops got to do with it but i do not like it.  an' these here are our own people, all of 'em. i do not like this.
want to work?
sure, but what is this?
that is not your affair. name.
joad.
how many men?
four.
women?
two.
kids?
two.
can all of you work?
why, i guess so.
okay. house 63. wages 5 cents a box. no bruised fruit. move along and go to work right away.
we gonna live here?
why, sure. it will not be so bad once we get her washed out.
i like the tent better.
this got a floor. would not leak when it rains.
got any more, ma?
no. that is all. you made a dollar, an' that is a dollar's worth.
that!
they charge extry at the comp'ny store but they am not no other place.
i am not full.
well, tomorra you will get in a full day--full day's pay--an' we will have plenty.
you would not think jus' reachin' up an' pickin'd get you in the back.
think I will walk out an' try to fin' out what all that fuss outside the gate was. anybody wanta come with me?
no. I am jus' going to set awhile an' then go to bed.
think I will look aroun' an' see if i can not meet me a girl.
thing's been workin' on me, what they was yellin' about. got me all curious.
i got to get a lot curiouser than i am--with all them cops out there.
okay. i be back a little later.
you be careful, tommy. do not you be stickin' your nose in anything.
okay, ma. do not you worry.
where you think you are going?
thought I would take a walk. any law against it?
well, you just turn around and walk the other way.
you mean i can not even get outa here?
not tonight you can't. want to walk back?--or you want me to whistle up some help and take you back?
I will walk back.
what is the matter?
casy! what you doin' here?
well, if it am not tom joad. how ya, boy?
thought you was in jail.
no, i done my time an' got out. come on in.
workin'. pickin' peaches. but i seen a bunch a fellas yellin' when we come in, so i come out to see what is goin' on. what is it all about?
this here's a strike.
well, fi' cents a box am not much, but a fella can eat.
fi' cents! they pain' you fi' cents?
sure. we made a buck since midday.
lookie, tom. we come to work here. they tell us it is going to be fi' cents. but they was a whole lot of us, so the man says two an' a half cents. well, a fella can not even eat on that, an' if he got kids...  so we says we will not take it. so they druv us off. now they are payin' you five--but when they bust this strike ya think they will pay five?
i dunno. payin' five now.
i do not expeck we can las' much longer-- some a the folks am not et for two days. you goin' back tonight?
i aim to.
well--tell the folks inside how it is, tom. tell 'em they are starvin' us and stabbin' theirself in the back. an' as sure as god made little apples it is goin' back to two an' a half jus' as soon as they clear us out.
I will tell 'em. but i do not know how. never seen so many guys with guns. would not even let us talk today.
try an' tell 'em, tom. they will get two an' a half, jus' the minute we are gone. an' you know what that is? that is one ton a peaches picked an' carried for a dollar. that way you can not even buy food enough to keep you alive! tell 'em to come out with us, tom! them peaches is *ripe*. two days out an' they will pay *all* of us five!
they won't. they are a-gettin' five an' they do not care about nothin' else.
but jus' the minute they am not strike- breakin' they will not get no five!
an' the nex' thing you know you will be out, because they got it all figgered down to a t--until the harvest is in you are a *migrant* worker--afterwards, just a bum.
five they are a-gettin' now, an' that is all they are int'rested in. i know exackly what pa'd say. he would jus' say it was not none a his business.
i guess that is right. have to take a beatin' before he will know.
we was outa food. tonight we had meat. not much, but we had it. think pa's going to give up his meat on account a other fellas? an' rosasharn needs milk. think ma's going to starve that baby jus' cause a bunch a fellas is yellin' outside a gate?
got to learn, like I am a-learnin'. do not know it right yet myself, but I am tryin' to fin' out. that is why i can not ever be a preacher again. preacher got to *know*.  i don't. i got to *ask*.
can not tell if you hear it or not. you hear it, tom?
i hear it. i think they's some guys comin' this way, lots of 'em. we better get outa here.
anybody ask anything?
no'm.
stand by the door.
how is it feel, tommy?
busted my cheek but i can still see. what did you hear?
looks like you done it.
i kinda thought so. felt like it.
folks am not talkin' about much else. they say they got posses out. talkin' about a lynchin'--when they catch the fella.
they killed casy first.
that am not the way they are tellin' it. they are sayin' you done it fust.
they know what--this fella looks like?
they know he got hit in the face.
I am sorry, ma. but--i did not know what i was doin', no more'n when you take a breath. i did not even know i was going to do it.
it is awright, tommy. i wisht you did not do it, but you done what you had to do. i can not read no fault in you.
I am going to go away tonight. i can not go puttin' this on you folks.
tom! they's a whole lot i do not understan', but goin' away am not going to ease us.  they was the time when we was on the lan'. they was a bound'ry to us then. old folks died off, an' little fellas come, an' we was always one thing-- we was the fambly--kinda whole an' clear. but now we am not clear no more. they am not nothin' keeps us clear. al--he's a-hankerin' an' a- jibbitin' to go off on his own. an' uncle john is just a-draggin' along. pa's lost his place--he am not the head no more. we are crackin' up, tom. they am not no fambly now. rosasharn--  --she going to have her baby, but *it* am not going to have no fambly. i been tryin' to keep her goin' but--winfiel'-- what is he going to be, this-a-way? growin' up wild, an' ruthie, too-- like animals. got nothin' to trus'. do not go tom. stay an' help. help me.
okay, ma. i shouldn't, though. i know i shouldn't. but okay.
house 25. number's on the door.
okay, mister. whatcha payin'?
two and a half cents.
two an' a half! say, mister, a man can not make his dinner on that.
take it or leave it. there is 200 men coming from the south that will be glad to get it.
but--but how we gonna eat?
look, i did not set the price. I am just working here. if you want it, take it. if you don't, turn right around and beat it.
which way is house 25?
that casy. he might a been a preacher, but--he seen a lot a things clear. he was like a lantern--he helped mw see things too.
comes night we will get outa here.
it is jus' till we get some distance. then you can come out.
I would hate to get *trapped* in here.
you mean that hitch-hiker? little short fella with a pale face?
i guess that is what he looked like.
we just picked him up on the way in. he went away this mornin' when the rate dropped.
what did he look like again?
short fella. pale face.
was he bruised up this mornin'? about the face?
i did not see nothin'.
okay. go on.
know where we are a-goin'?
do not matter. just got to go--an' keep a-goin', till we get plenty a distance away from here.
ma... you know, if connie was here i would not min' any a this.
i know, honey, an' just as soon as we get settled al's going to set out an' look for him. how 'bout gas, tommy?
she is hotter'n a heifer.
fan-belt's shot.
any gas?
gallon or two?
well, looks like we done it this time awright!
looks like about a mile. reckon she will make it?
she got to make it.
what is it?
do not know--but it is better'n this.
take 'er on down, al. I will sign.
we going to stay, am not we?
you are tootin' we are going to stay.
i do not mean to be nosy, y'understand. i just got to have certain information. what is your name?
joad. tom joad.
how many of you?
camp site costs a dollar a week, but you can work it out, carrying garbage, keeping the camp clean--stuff like that.
we will work it out. what is this committee you talkin' about?
we got five sanitary units. each one elects a central committee man. they make the laws, an' what they say goes.
are you aimin' to tell me that the fellas that run this camp is jus' fellas--campin' here?
that is the way it is.
an' you say no cops?
no cop can come in here without a warrant.
i can not hardly believe it. camp i was in once, they burned it out--the deputies an' some of them poolroom fellas.
they do not get in here. sometimes the boys patrol the fences, especially dance nights.
you got dances too?
we got the best dances in the county every saturday night.
say, who runs this place?
government.
why am not they more like it?
*you* find out, i can't.
anything like work aroun' here?
can not promise you that, but there'll be a licensed agent here tomorrow mornin', if you want to talk to him.
ma's shore going to like it here. she am not been treated decent for a long time.
that cut you got?
crate fell on me.
better take care of it. store manager'll give you some stuff for it in the morning. goodnight.
goodnight.
git up. i got sump'n to show you.
whatsa matter?
it is them white things, made outa dish-stuff, like in the catalogues!
come on. am not nobody going to say anything.
will not they ketch us?
what is these?
well, i reckon you *stan'* in them little rooms--an' water come down outa that there little jigger up there--take a bath!
jes' like in the catalogues, am not they!
i seen 'em b'fore you did.
what is this?
now do not you go monk'ing--
now you done it! you busted it!
i never--
lemme go! i did not go to do it!
keep qui'te, will ya! shet your mouth!
i never knowed it! all i done was pull that string!
lissen. you done busted it. you hear?  but lissen here. i will not tell nobody, y'understan'?
please don't.
i won't--  --if you will not tell what *i* done!
lotta these little farmers mighty nice fellas. trouble is they are little, they am not got much say-so.
shore looks like my lucky day, anyway. gettin' some work at las'.
ma...  ma, i--i can not go to the dance. i jus' can not ma. i can not hardly stan' it, with connie not here--an' me this way.
why, honey, it makes folks happy to see a girl that way--makes folks sort of giggly an' happy.
i can not he'p it, ma. it do not make *me* giggly an' happy.
you an' me's goin' together--jus' you an' me. we are a-goin' to that dance an' we are a-goin' to jus' set an' watch. if anybody says to come dance--why I will say you are poorly. but you an' me, we are going to hear the music an' see the fun.
an' you will not let nobody touch me?
no--an' look what i got for you.
you sure you got ever'thing ready?
am not going to be no trouble.
you am not to hurt them fellas.
yes, sir.
awright. an' if she gets outa han', I will be in the right han' corner, this side the dance floor.
am not going to get outa han'.
she is gettin' prettier, ma.
girl with a baby *always* gets prettier.
well, you said anybody can waltz... how'm *i* doin'?
do not hold me so tight.
why, i am not hardly touchin' you!
you are *ticklin' me!*
that comes from not holdin' you tight *enough.*
now i can not breathe.
open up! we hear you got a riot.
riot? i do not see no riot. who are you?
deputy sheriffs.
got a warrant?
we do not need a warrant if it is a riot.
well, i do not know what you going to do about it, because i do not hear no riot an' i do not see no riot, an' what is more i do not believe they *is* no riot.  look for yourself.
they was some cops here, ma. they was takin' down the license numbers. it looks like somebody knows sump'n.
it had to come, i reckon, soon or later.
I would like to stay. I would like to be with ya--  --an' see your face when you an' pa get settled in a nice little place. i sure wish i could see you then. but--  --i guess i will not never be able to do that. not now.
i could hide you, tommy.
i know you would, ma. but i am not going to let you. you hide somebody that is kilt a man an'... an' you would be in trouble too.
awright, tommy. what you figger you gonna do?
you know what i been thinkin' about, ma? about casy. about what he said, what he done, an' about how he died. an' i remember all of it.
he was a good man.
i been thinkin' about us, too--about our people livin' like pigs, an' good rich lan' layin' fallow, or maybe one fella with a million acres, while a hundred thousan' farmers is starvin'. an' i been wonderin' if all our folks got together an' yelled--
tommy, they will drive you, an' cut you down like they done to casy.
they going to drive me anyways. soon or later they will get me, for one thing if not another. until then...
you do not aim to kill nobody, tom!
no, ma. not that. that am not it. but long as I am a outlaw, anyways, maybe i can do sump'n. maybe i can jus' fin' out sump'n. jus' scrounge aroun' an' try to fin' out what it is that is wrong, an then see if they am not sump'n could be done about it.  but i am not thought it out clear, ma. i can't. i do not know enough.
how'm i going to know 'bout you? they might kill you an' i would not know. they might hurt you. how'm i going to know?
well, maybe it is like casy says, a fella am not got a soul of his own, but on'y a piece of a big soul--the one big soul that belongs to ever'body-- an' then...
then what, tom?
then it do not matter. then I will be all aroun' in the dark. I will be ever'where--wherever you look. wherever there is a fight so hungry people can eat, I will be there. wherever there is a cop beatin' up a guy, I will be there. I will be in the way guys yell when they are mad--an' I will be in the way kids laugh when they are hungry an' they know supper's ready. an' when our people eat the stuff they raise, an' live in the houses they build, why, I will be there too.
i do not understan' it, tom.
me neither.  it is jus' stuff i been thinkin' about. gimme you han', ma. good-by.
good-by, tom. later--when it is blowed over--you'll come back? you will try to fin' us?
sure. good-by.
good-by, tommy.
ready, ma?
I will get rosasharn.
make her easy, john. watch her.
she will be awright.
ready, pa?
let 'er go, gallagher!
twenty days work, oh boy!
be glad to get my han' on some cotton. that is the kin' a pickin' i understan'.
maybe. maybe twenny days work, maybe *no* days work. we am not got it till we get it.
whatsa matter, ma? gettin' scared?
no. am not ever going to be scared no more.  i was, though. for a while i thought we was beat--*good* an' beat. looked like we did not have nothin' in the worl' but enemies--wasn't *no*body frien'ly anymore. it made me feel bad an' scared too--like we was lost... an' nobody cared.
watch me pass that chevvy.
woman can change better'n a man. man lives in jerks--baby born, or somebody dies, that is a jerk--gets a farm, or loses one, an' that is a jerk. with a woman it is all one flow, like a stream, little eddies, little waterfalls, but the river it goes right on. woman looks at it like that.
look at that old coffeepot steam!
maybe, but we shore takin' a beatin'.
i know. maybe that makes us tough. rich fellas come up an' they die, an' their kids am not no good, an' they die out. but we keep a-comin'. we are the people that live. can not nobody wipe us out. can not nobody lick us. we will go on forever, pa. we are the people.
