where is the fucking money, shithead!
it is uh, it is down there somewhere. lemme take another look.
yeah?
was not this guy supposed to be a millionaire?
uh?
fuck.
what do you think?
he looks like a fuckin' loser.
this was, uh--
yeah man, it really tied the room together--
this was a valued, uh.
what tied the room together, dude?
were you listening to the story, donny?
what--
were you listening to the dude's story?
i was bowling--
so you have no frame of reference, donny.  you are like a child who wanders in in the middle of a movie and wants to know--
what is your point, walter?
there is no fucking reason--here's my point, dude--there's no fucking reason--
yeah walter, what is your point?
huh?
what is the point of--we all know who was at fault, so what the fuck are you talking about?
huh?  no!  what the fuck are you talking--i'm not--we're talking about unchecked aggression here--
what the fuck is he talking about?
my rug.
forget it, donny.  you are out of your element.
this chinaman who peed on my rug, i can not go give him a bill so what the fuck are you talking about?
what the fuck are you talking about?! this chinaman is not the issue!  I am talking about drawing a line in the sand, dude.  across this line you do not, uh--and also, dude, chinaman is not the preferred, uh. . . asian- american.  please.
walter, this is not a guy who built the rail- roads, here, this is a guy who peed on my--
what the fuck are you--
walter, he peed on my rug--
he peed on the dude's rug--
you are out of your element!  this chinaman is not the issue, dude.
so who--
jeff lebowski.  come on.  this other jeffrey lebowski.  the millionaire. he is going to be easier to find anyway than these two, uh. these two  . . . and he has the wealth, uh, the resources obviously, and there is no reason, no fucking reason, why his wife should go out and owe money and they pee on your rug.  am i wrong?
no, but--
am i wrong!
yeah, but--
okay. that, uh.
fuckin' a.
and this guy peed on it.
donny!  please!
yeah, i could find this lebowski guy--
his name is lebowski?  that is your name, dude!
yeah, this is the guy, this guy should compensate me for the fucking rug. i mean his wife goes out and owes money and they pee on my rug.
and this is the study.  you can see the various commendations, honorary degrees, et cetera.
yes, uh, very impressive.
please, feel free to inspect them.
I am not really, uh.
please!  please!
uh-huh.
that is the key to the city of pasadena, which mr. lebowski was given two years ago in recognition of his various civic, uh.
uh-huh.
that is a los angeles chamber of commerce business achiever award, which is given--not necessarily given every year!  given only when there is a worthy, somebody especially--
hey, is this him with nancy?
that is indeed mr. lebowski with the first lady, yes, taken when--
lebowski on the right?
of course, mr. lebowski on the right, mrs.  reagan on the left, taken when--
he is handicapped, huh?
mr. lebowski is disabled, yes.  and this picture was taken when mrs. reagan was first lady of the nation, yes, yes? not of california.
far out.
and in fact he met privately with the president, though unfortunately there was not time for a photo opportunity.
nancy's pretty good.
wonderful woman.  we were very--
are these.
these are mr. lebowski's children, so to speak--
different mothers, huh?
no, they--
i guess he is pretty, uh, racially pretty cool--
they are not his, heh-heh, they are not literally his children; they are the little lebowski urban achievers, inner-city children of promise but without the--
i see.
--without  the means  for higher education, so mr. lebowski  has committed  to sending  all of them to college.
jeez.  think he is got room for one more?
one--oh!  heh-heh.  you never went to college?
well, yeah i did, but i spent most of my time occupying various, um, administration buildings--
heh-heh--
--smoking thai-stick, breaking into the rotc--
yes, heh--
--and bowling.  I will tell you the truth, brandt, i do not remember most of it.--jeez!  fuck me!
well sir, it is this rug i have, really tied the room together-
you told brandt on the phone, he told me.  so where do i fit in?
well they were looking for you, these two guys, they were trying to--
I will say it again, all right?  you told brandt.  he told me.  i know what happened. yes?  yes?
so you know they were trying to piss on your rug--
did i urinate on your rug?
you mean, did you personally come and pee on my--
hello!  do you speak english?  parla usted inglese?  I will say it again. did i urinate on your rug?
well no, like i said, woo peed on the rug--
hello!  hello!  so every time--i just want to understand this, sir-- every time a rug is micturated upon in this fair city, i have to compensate the--
come on, man, I am not trying to scam anybody here, I am just--
you are just looking for a handout like every other--are you employed, mr. lebowski?
look, let me explain something. I am not mr. lebowski;  you are mr. lebowski.  I am the dude.  so that is what  you  call me.  that, or duder. his  dudeness.  or el duderino, if, you know, you are not into the whole brevity thing--
are you employed, sir?
employed?
you do not go out and make a living dressed like that in the middle of a weekday.
is this a--what day is this?
but i do work, so if you do not mind--
no, look.  i do mind.  the dude minds. this will not stand, ya know, this will not stand, man.  i mean, if your wife owes--
my wife is not the issue here. i hope that my wife will someday learn to live on her allowance, which is ample, but if she doesn't, sir, that will be her problem, not mine, just as your rug is your problem, just as every bum's lot in life is his own responsibility regardless of whom he chooses to blame.  i did not blame anyone for the loss of my legs, some chinaman in korea took them from me but i went out and achieved anyway. i can not solve your problems, sir, only you can.
ah fuck it.
sure!  fuck it!  that is your answer! tattoo it on your forehead!  your answer to everything!
manolo will load it into your car for you, uh, dude.
it is the lebaron.
well, enjoy, and perhaps we will see you again some time, dude.
yeah sure, if I am ever in the neighborhood, need to use the john.
way to go, dude.  if you will it, it is no dream.
you are fucking twenty minutes late. what the fuck is that?
theodore herzel.
huh?
state of israel.  if you will it, dude, it is no--
what the fuck're you talking about? the carrier.  what is in the fucking carrier?
huh?  oh--cynthia's pomeranian. can not leave him home alone or he eats the furniture.
what the fuck are you--
I am saying, cynthia's pomeranian. I am looking after it while cynthia and marty ackerman are in hawaii.
you brought a fucking pomeranian bowling?
what do you mean "brought it bowling"? i did not rent it shoes.  I am not buying it a fucking beer.  he is not going to take your fucking turn, dude.
hey, man, if my fucking ex-wife asked me to take care of her fucking dog while she and her boyfriend went to honolulu, I would tell her to go fuck herself.  why can not she board it?
first of all, dude, you do not have an ex, secondly, it is a fucking show dog with fucking papers.  you can not board it.  it gets upset, its hair falls out.
hey man--
fucking dog has papers, dude.--over the line!
smokey huh?
over the line, smokey!  I am sorry. that is a foul.
bullshit.  eight, dude.
excuse me!  mark it zero.  next frame.
bullshit. walter!
this is not nam.  this is bowling. there are rules.
come on walter, it is just--it's smokey.  so his toe slipped over a little, it is just a game.
this is a league game.  this determines who enters the next round- robin, am i wrong?
yeah, but--
am i wrong!?
yeah, but i was not over.  gimme the marker, dude,  I am marking it an eight.
smokey my friend, you are entering a world of pain.
hey walter--
mark that frame an eight, you are entering a world of pain.
I am not--
a world of pain.
walter, they are calling the cops, put the piece away.
mark it zero!
walter--
you think I am fucking around here? mark it zero!!
all right!  there it is!  it is fucking zero!
you happy, you crazy fuck?
this is a league game, smokey!
walter, you can not do that.  these guys're like me, they are pacificists. smokey was a conscientious objector.
you know dude, i myself dabbled with pacifism at one point.  not in nam, of course--
and you know smokey has emotional problems!
you mean--beyond pacifism?
he is fragile, man!  he is very fragile!
huh.  i did not know that.  well, it is water under the bridge.  and we do enter the next round-robin, am i wrong?
no, you are not wrong--
am i wrong!
you are not wrong, walter, you are just an asshole.
okay then.  we play quintana and o'brien next week.  they will be pushovers.
just, just take it easy, walter.
that is your answer to everything, dude.  and let me point out--pacifism is not--look at our current situation with that camelfucker in iraq-- pacifism is not something to hide behind.
well, just take 't easy, man.
I am perfectly calm, dude.
yeah?  wavin' a gun around?!
calmer than you are.
dude, this is smokey.  look, i do not wanna be a hard-on about this, and i know it was not your fault, but i just thought it was fair to tell you that gene and i will be submitting this to the league and asking them to set aside the round.  or maybe forfeit it to us--
shit!
--so, like i say, just thought, you know, fair warning.  tell walter.
hiya allan.
dude, i finally got the venue i wanted.  I am performing my dance quintet--you know, my cycle--at crane jackson's fountain street theatre on tuesday night, and I would love it if you came and gave me notes.
sure allan, I will be there.
dude, uh, tomorrow is already the tenth.
yeah, yeah i know. okay.
just, uh, just slip the rent under my door.
yeah, okay.
we have had some terrible news.  mr. lebowski is in seclusion in the west wing.
huh.
it is funny.  i can look back on a life of achievement, on challenges met, competitors bested, obstacles overcome.  I have accomplished more than most men, and without the use of my legs.  what. . . what makes a man, mr. lebowski?
dude.
huh?
i do not know, sir.
is it. . . is it, being prepared to do the right thing?  whatever the price?  is not that what makes a man?
sure.  that and a pair of testicles.
mind if i smoke a jay?
bunny.
'scuse me?
bunny lebowski. . . she is the light of my life.  are you surprised at my tears, sir?
fuckin' a.
strong men also cry. . . strong men also cry.
mr. lebowski is prepared to make a generous offer to you to act as courier once we get instructions for the money.
why me, man?
he suspects that the culprits might be the very people who, uh, soiled your rug, and you are in a unique position to confirm or, uh, disconfirm that suspicion.
so he thinks it is the carpet-pissers, huh?
well dude, we just do not know.
yeah, but he is a fucking pervert, dude.
huh?
the man is a sex offender.  with a record.  spent six months in chino for exposing himself to an eight- year-old.
huh.
when he moved down to venice he had to go door-to-door to tell everyone he is a pederast.
what is a pederast, walter?
shut the fuck up, donny.
anyway.  how much they offer you?
twenty grand.  and of course i still keep the rug.
just for making the hand-off?
yeah.
...they  gave  dude  a  beeper,  so whenever these guys call--
what if it is during a game?
i told him if it was during league play--
if what is during league play?
life does not stop and start at your convenience, you miserable piece of shit.
what is wrong with walter, dude?
i figure it is easy money, it is all pretty harmless.  i mean she probably kidnapped herself.
huh?
what do you mean, dude?
rug-peers did not do this.  i mean look at it.  young trophy wife. marries a guy for money but figures he is not giving her enough.  she owes money all over town--
that...fucking...bitch!
it is all a goddamn fake.  like lenin said, look for the person who will benefit.  and you will, uh, you know, you'll, uh, you know what I am trying to say--
i am the walrus.
that fucking bitch!
yeah.
i am the walrus.
shut the fuck up, donny!  v.i. lenin! vladimir ilyich ulyanov!
what the fuck is he talking about?
that is fucking exactly what happened, dude!  that makes me fucking sick!
yeah, well, what do you care, walter?
yeah dude, why is walter so pissed off?
those rich fucks!  this whole fucking thing-- i did not watch my buddies die face down in the muck so that this fucking strumpet--
i do not see any connection to vietnam, walter.
well, there is not a literal connection, dude.
walter, face it, there is not any connection.  it is your roll.
have it your way.  the point is--
it is your roll--
the fucking point is--
it is your roll.
they called about eighty minutes ago.  they want you to take the money and drive north on the 4 5.  they will call you on the portable phone with instructions in about forty minutes. one person only or I would go with you. they were very clear on that: one person only.  what happened to your jaw?
oh, nothin', you know.
here's the money, and the phone. please, dude, follow whatever instructions they give.
uh-huh.
her life is in your hands.
oh, man, do not say that..
mr. lebowski asked me to repeat that: her life is in your hands.
shit.
her life is in your hands, dude. and report back to us as soon as it is done.
the what?
the ringer!  the ringer, dude!  have they called yet?
what the hell is this?
my dirty undies.  laundry, dude. the whites.
agh--
walter, I am sure there is a reason you brought your dirty undies--
thaaaat's right, dude.  the weight. the ringer can not look empty.
walter--what the fuck are you thinking?
well you are right, dude, i got to thinking.  i got to thinking why should we settle for a measly fucking twenty grand--
we?  what the fuck we?  you said you just wanted to come along--
my point, dude, is why should we settle for twenty grand when we can keep the entire million.  am i wrong?
yes you are wrong.  this is not a fucking game, walter--
it is a fucking game.  you said so yourself, dude--she kidnapped herself--
dude here.
who is this?
dude the bagman.  where do you want us to go?
...us? dude
shut the fuck up.  hello?
yeah?
okay, listen--
oh shit.  walter.
what the fuck is going on there?
they hung up, walter!  you fucked it up!  you fucked it up!  her life was in our hands!
easy, dude.
we are screwed now!  we do not get shit and they are going to kill her! we are fucked, walter!
dude, nothing is fucked.  come on. you are being very undude.  they will call back.  look, she kidnapped her--
ya see?  nothing is fucked up here, dude.  nothing is fucked.  these guys are fucking amateurs--
shutup, walter!  do not fucking say peep when I am doing business here.
okay dude.  have it your way.
dude here.
okay, vee proceed.  but only if there is no funny stuff.
yeah.
so no funny stuff.  okay?
hey, just tell me where the fuck you want us to go.
yeah.  so as long as we get her back, nobody's in a position to complain. and we keep the baksheesh.
terrific, walter.  but you have not told me how we get her back.  where is she?
that is the simple part, dude.  when we make the handoff, i grab the guy and beat  it out of him.
...huh?
yeah.  that is a great plan, walter. that is fucking ingenious, if i understand it correctly.  that is a swiss fucking watch.
thaaat's right, dude.  the beauty of this is its simplicity. if the plan gets too complex something always goes wrong.  if there is one thing i learned in nam--
dude.
you are approaching a vooden britch. when you cross it you srow ze bag from ze left vindow of ze moving kar.  do not slow down.  vee vatch you.
fuck.
what did he say?  where is the hand- off?
there is no fucking hand-off, walter! at a wooden bridge we throw the money out  of the car!
huh?
we throw the money out of the moving car!
we can not do that, dude.  that fucks up our plan.
well call them up and explain it to 'em, walter!  your plan is so fucking simple, I am sure they would fucking understand it!  that is the beauty of it walter!
wooden bridge, huh?
I am throwing the money, walter! we are not fucking around!
the bridge is coming up!  gimme the ringer, dude!  chop-chop!
fuck that!  i love you, walter, but sooner or later you are going to have to face the fact that you are a goddamn moron.
okay, dude.  no time to argue.  here's the bridge--
walter!
your wheel, dude!  I am rolling out!
what the fuck?
your wheel!  at fifteen em-pee-aitch i roll out!  i double back, grab one of 'em and beat it out of him!  the uzi!
uzi?
you did not think i was rolling out of here naked!
walter, please--
aitz chaim he, dude.  as the ex used to say.
what the fuck is that supposed to mean?  what the fuck're we going to tell lebowski?
huh?  oh, him, yeah.  well i do not see, um-- what exactly is the problem?
huh?  the problem is--what do you mean what is the--there's no--we didn't-- they are going to kill that poor woman--
what the fuck're you talking about? that poor woman--that poor slut-- kidnapped herself, dude.  you said so yourself--
no, walter!  i said i thought she kidnapped herself!  you are the one who is so fucking certain--
that is right, dude, 1  % certain--
they posted the next round of the tournament--
donny, shut the f--when do we play?
this saturday.  quintana and--
saturday!  well they will have to reschedule.
walter, what'm i going to tell lebowski?
i told that fuck down at the league office-- who is in charge of scheduling?
walter--
burkhalter.
i told that kraut a fucking thousand times i do not roll on shabbas.
it is already posted.
well they can fucking un-post it!
who gives a shit, walter?  what about that poor woman?  what do we tell--
c'mon dude, eventually she will get sick of her little game and, you know, wander back--
how come you do not roll on saturday, walter?
I am shomer shabbas.
what is that, walter?
yeah, and in the meantime what do i tell lebowski?
saturday is shabbas.  jewish day of rest.  means i do not work, i do not drive a car, i do not fucking ride in a car, i do not handle money, i do not turn on the oven, and i sure as shit do not fucking roll!
sheesh.
walter, how--
that is it.  I am out of here.
for christ's sake, dude.
oh yeah, how did it go?
went alright.  dude's car got a little dinged up--
but walter, we did not make the fucking hand- off!  they did not get, the fucking money and they are gonna-- they are gonna--
yeah yeah, "kill that poor woman."
kill that poor woman.
walter, if you can not ride in a car, how d'you get around on shammas--
really, dude, you surprise me. they are not going to kill shit.  they are not going to do shit.  what can they do?  fuckin' amateurs.  and meanwhile, look at the bottom line.  who is sitting on a million fucking dollars? am i wrong?
walter--
who is got a fucking million fucking dollars parked in the trunk of our car out here?
"our" car, walter?
and what do they got, dude?  my dirty undies.  my fucking whites--say, where is  the car?
who has your undies, walter?
where is your car, dude?
you do not know, walter?  you seem to know the answer to everything else!
hmm.  well, we were in a handicapped spot.  it, uh, it was probably towed.
it is been stolen, walter!  you fucking know it is been stolen!
well, certainly that is a possibility, dude--
aw, fuck it.
where you going, dude?
I am going home, donny.
your phone's ringing, dude.
thank you, donny.
1972 pontiac lebaron.
color?
green.  some brown, or, uh, rust, coloration.
and was there anything of value in the car?
huh?  oh.  yeah.  tape deck.  couple of creedence tapes.  and there was a, uh. . . my briefcase.
in the briefcase?
papers.  just papers.  you know, my papers.  business papers.
and what do you do, sir?
I am unemployed.
...me, i do not drink coffee.  but it is nice when they offer.
...also, my rug was stolen.
your rug was in the car.
no.  here.
separate incidents?
sometimes.  i would not hold out much hope for the tape deck though.  or the creedence tapes.
and the, uh, the briefcase?
is that what that is a picture of?
in a sense, yes.  elfranco, my robe. my art has been commended as being strongly vaginal.  which bothers some men.  the word itself makes some men uncomfortable.  vagina.
oh yeah?
yes, they do not like hearing it and find it difficult to say.  whereas without batting an eye a man will refer to his "dick" or his "rod" or his "johnson".
"johnson"?
thank you.
huh?
yes, i know about it.  and i know that you acted as courier.  and let me tell you something:  the whole thing stinks to high heaven.
right, but let me explain something about that rug--
do you like sex, mr. lebowski?
excuse me?
sex.  the physical act of love. coitus.  do you like it?
i was talking about my rug.
you are not interested in sex?
you mean coitus?
i like it too.  it is a male myth about feminists that we hate sex. it can be a natural, zesty enterprise. but unfortunately there are some people--it is called satyriasis in men, nymphomania in women--who engage in it compulsively and without joy.
oh, no.
yes mr. lebowski, these unfortunate souls cannot love in the true sense of the word.  our mutual acquaintance bunny is one of these.
listen, maude, I am sorry if your stepmother is a nympho, but i do not see what it has to do with--do you have any kalhua?
take a look at this, sir.
lord.  you can imagine where it goes from here.
he fixes the cable?
do not be fatuous, jeffrey.  little matter to me that this woman chose to pursue a career
shit yeah, the achievers.
little lebowski urban achievers, yes, and proud we are of all of them. i asked my father about his withdrawal of a million dollars from the foundation account and he told me about this "abduction", but i tell you it is preposterous.  this compulsive
yeah, but my-
I am getting to your rug. my  father and i do not get along; he does not approve of my lifestyle and, needless to say, i do not approve of his. still, i hardly wish to make my father's embezzlement a police matter, so I am proposing that you try to recover the money from the people you delivered it to.
well--sure, i could do that--
if you successfully do so, i will compensate you to the tune of 1% of the recovered sum.
a hundred.
thousand, yes, bones or clams or whatever you call them.
yeah, but what about--
--your rug, yes, well with that money you can buy any number of rugs that do not have sentimental value for me. and i am sorry about that crack on the jaw.
oh that is okay, i hardly even--
here's the name and number of a doctor who will look at it for you.  you will receive no bill.  he is a good man, and thorough.
that is really thoughtful but i--
please see him, jeffrey.  he is a good man, and thorough.
--so he says, "my son can not hold a job, my daughter's married to a fuckin' loser, and i got a rash on my ass so bad i can not hardly siddown. but you know me.  i can not complain."
fuckin' a, man.  i got a rash. fuckin' a, man.  i got to tell ya tony.
where is my goddamn money, you bum?!
well we--i don't--
they did not receive the money, you nitwit!  they  did not receive the goddamn money.  her life was in your hands!
this is our concern, dude.
no, man, nothing is fucked here--
c'mon man, who are you going to believe? those guys are--we dropped off the damn money--
what?!
i--the royal we, you know, the editorial--i dropped off the money, exactly as per--look, I have got certain information, certain things have come to light, and uh, has it ever occurred to you, man, that given the nature of all this new shit, that, uh, instead of running around blaming me, that this whole thing might just be, not, you know, not just such a simple, but uh--you know?
what in god's holy name are you blathering about?
I will tell you what I am blathering about!  i got information--new shit has come to light and--shit, man! she kidnapped herself!
well sure, look at it!  young trophy wife, i mean, in the parlance of our times, owes money all over town, including to known pornographers-- and that is cool, that is cool-- but I am saying, she needs money, and of course they are going to say they did not get it 'cause she wants more, man, she is got to feed the monkey, i mean-- has not that ever occurred to you...? sir?
no.  no mr. lebowski, that had not occurred to me.
that had not occurred to us, dude.
well, okay, you are not privy to all the new shit, so uh, you know, but that is what you pay me for.  speaking of which, would it be possible for me to get my twenty grand in cash? i got to check this with my accountant of course, but my concern is that, you know, it could bump me into a higher tax--
brandt, give him the envelope.
well, okay, if you have already made out the check.  brandt is handing him a letter-sized envelope which is distended by something inside.
that was not her toe.
whose toe was it, walter?
how the fuck should i know?  i do know that nothing about it indicates--
the nail polish, walter.
fine, dude.  as if it is impossible to get some nail polish, apply it to someone else's toe--
someone else's--where the fuck are they gonna--
you want a toe?  i can get you a toe, believe me.  there are ways, dude.  you do not wanna know about it, believe me.
but walter--
I will  get  you  a  toe by  this afternoon--with nail  polish. these fucking amateurs.   they send us a toe, we are  supposed to  shit our- selves with fear.  jesus christ. my point is--
they are going to kill her, walter, and then they are going to kill me--
well that is just, that is the stress talking, dude.  so far we have what looks to me like a series of victimless crimes--
what about the toe?
forget about the fucking toe!
lady, i got buddies who died face- down in the muck so you and i could enjoy this family restaurant!
all right, I am leaving.  I am sorry ma'am.
do not run away from this, dude! goddamnit, this affects all of us!
and then they are going to stamp on it?!
oh for christ--will you shut the fuck up, donny.
i figure my only hope is that the big lebowski kills me before the germans can cut my dick off.
now that is ridiculous, dude.  no one is going to cut your dick off.
thanks walter.
not if i have anything to say about it.
yeah, thanks walter.  that gives me a very secure feeling.
dude--
that makes me feel all warm inside.
now dude--
this whole fucking thing--i  could be sitting here with just pee-stains on my rug.
fucking germans.  nothing changes. fucking nazis.
they were nazis, dude?
come on, donny, they were threatening castration!
uh-huh.
are you gonna split hairs?
no--
am i wrong?
well--
they are nihilists.
huh?
they kept saying they believe in nothing.
nihilists!  jesus.
yeah.
and let's also not forget--let's not forget, dude--that keeping wildlife, an amphibious rodent, for uh, domestic, you know, within the city-- that is not legal either.
what are you, a fucking park ranger now?
no, i'm--
who gives a shit about the fucking marmot!
--we're sympathizing here, dude--
fuck your sympathy!  i do not need your sympathy, man, i need my fucking johnson!
what do you need that for, dude?
you got to buck up, man, you can not go into the tournament with this negative attitude--
another caucasian, gary.
right, dude.
friends like these, huh gary.
ahh, not so good, man.
one a those days, huh.  wal, a wiser fella than m'self once said, sometimes you eat the bar and sometimes the bar, wal, he eats you.
uh-huh.  that some kind of eastern thing?
far from it.
mm.
i like your style, dude.
well i like your style too, man. got a whole cowboy thing goin'.
thankie. . . just one thing, dude. d'ya have to use s'many cuss words?
take it easy, dude.
yeah.  thanks man.
jeffrey, you have not gone to the doctor.
no it is fine, really, uh--
do you have any news regarding my father's money?
i, uh... money, yeah, i got to respecfully, 69 you know, tender my resignation on that matter, 'cause it looks like your mother really was kidnapped after all.
she most certainly was not!
hey man, why do not you fucking listen occasionally?  you might learn something.  now i got--
and please do not call her my mother.
now i got--
she is most definitely the perpetrator and not the victim.
I am telling you, i got definitive evidence--
from who?
the main guy, dieter--
dieter hauff?
well--yeah, i guess--
her "co-star" in the beaver picture?
beaver?  you mean vagina?--i mean, you know him?
dieter has been on the fringes of-- well, of everything in l.a., for about twenty years.  look at my lp's. under 'autobahn.'
roy orbison. . . pink floyd.
huh?  autobahn.  a-u-t-o.  their music is a sort of--ugh--techno-pop.
jeez.  i miss vinyl.
is he pretending to be the abductor?
well...yeah--
look, jeffrey, you do not really kidnap someone that you are acquainted with.  you can not get away with it if the hostage knows who you are.
well yeah...i know that.
so dieter has the money?
well, no, not exactly.  it is a complicated case, maude.  lotta ins. lotta outs.  and a lotta strands to keep in my head, man.  lotta strands in old duder's--
do you still have that doctor's number?
huh?  no, really, i do not even have the bruise any more, i--
please jeffrey.  i do not want to be responsible for any delayed after- effects.
delayed after-eff--
i want you to see him immediately.
huh?  no, she, she hit me right here.
i understand sir.  could you slide your shorts down please?
he lives in north hollywood on radford, near the in-and-out burger--
the in-and-out burger is on camrose.
near the in-and-out burger--
those are good burgers, walter.
shut the fuck up, donny.  this kid is in the ninth grade, dude, and his father is--are you ready for this?-- arthur digby sellers.
who the fuck is that?
huh?
who the fuck is arthur digby sellers?
who the f--have you ever heard of a little show called branded, dude?
yeah.
all but one man died?  there at bitter creek?
yeah yeah, i know the fucking show walter, so what?
fucking arthur digby sellers wrote 156 episodes, dude.
uh-huh.
the bulk of the series.
uh-huh.
not exactly a lightweight.
no.
and yet his son is a fucking dunce.
uh.
yeah, go figure.  well we will go out there after the, uh, the.
what have you.  we'll, uh--
we will be near the in-and-out burger.
shut the fuck up, donny.  we'll, uh, brace the kid--he'll be a pushover. we will get that fucking money, if he has not spent it already.  million fucking clams. and yes, we will be near the, uh--some burgers, some beers, a few laughs.  our fucking troubles are over, dude.
fuck me, man!  that kid's already spent all the money!
hardly dude, a new 'vette?  the kid's still got, oh, 96 to 97 thousand, depending on the options.  wait in the car, donny.
is this your homework, larry?
look, man, did you--
dude, please!. . .  is this your homework, larry?
just ask him if he--ask him about the car, man!
is this yours, larry?  is this your homework, larry?
is the car out front yours?
is this your homework, larry?
we know it is his fucking homework, walter!  where is the fucking money, you little brat?
look, larry. . . have you ever heard of vietnam?
oh, for christ's sake, walter!
you are going to enter a world of pain, son.  we know that this is your homework.  we know you stole a car--
and the fucking money!
and the fucking money.  and we know that this is your homework, larry.
no!  no!  no!  that is not--
i fuckeen kill jor fuckeen car!
pin your diapers on, lebowski.  jackie treehorn wants to see you.
and we know which lebowski you are, lebowski.
yeah.  jackie treehorn wants to talk to the deadbeat lebowski.
you are not dealing with morons here.
this is quite a pad you got here, man.  completely unspoiled.
what is your drink, dude?
white russian, thanks.  how is the smut business, jackie?
i would not know, dude.  i deal in publishing, entertainment, political advocacy, and--
which one was logjammin'?
regrettably, it is true, standards have fallen in adult entertainment. it is video, dude.  now that we are competing with the amateurs, we can not afford to invest that little extra in story, production value, feeling.
people forget that the brain is the biggest erogenous zone--
on you, maybe.
of course, you do get the good with the bad.  the new technology permits us to do exciting things with interactive erotic software.  wave of the future, dude.  100% electronic.
uh-huh.  well, i still jerk off manually.
of course you do.  i can see you are anxious for me to get to the point. well dude, here it is.  where is bunny?
i thought you might know, man.
me?  how would i know?  the only reason she ran off was to get away from her rather sizable debt to me.
but she has not run off, she is been--
I have heard the kidnapping story, so save it.  i know you are mixed up in all this, dude, and i do not care what you are trying to take off her husband.  that is your business.  all I am saying is, i want mine.
yeah, well, right man, there are many facets to this, uh, you know, many interested parties.  if i can find your money, man-- what is in it for the dude?
of course, there is that to discuss. refill?
does the pope shit in the woods?
let's say a 10% finder's fee?
okay, jackie, done.  i like the way you do business.  your money is being held by a kid named larry sellers. he lives in north hollywood, on radford, near the in-and-out burger. a real fuckin' brat, but I am sure your goons'll be able to get it off him, mean he is only fifteen and he is flunking social studies.  so if you will just write me a check for my ten per cent. . . of half a million. . . fifty grand.
i know my rights.
you do not know shit, lebowski.
i want a fucking lawyer, man.  i want bill kunstler.
what are you, some kind of sad-assed refugee from the fucking sixties?
uh-huh.
mr. treehorn tells us that he had to eject you from his garden party, that you were drunk and abusive.
that guy treats women like objects, man.
mr. treehorn draws a lot of water in this town, lebowski.  you do not draw shit.  we got a nice quiet beach community here, and i aim to keep it nice and quiet.  so let me make something plain.  i do not like you sucking around bothering our citizens, lebowski.  i do not like your jerk- off name, i do not like your jerk-off face, i do not like your jerk- off behavior, and i do not like you, jerk- off --do i make myself clear?
jesus, man, can you change the station?
fuck you man!  you do not like my fucking music, get your own fucking cab!
I have had a--
i pull over and kick your ass out, man!
--had a rough night, and i hate the fucking eagles, man--
that is it!  outta this fucking cab!
jeffrey.
maude?
tell me a little about yourself, jeffrey.
well, uh. . . not much to tell.
i was, uh, one of the authors of the port huron statement.--the original port huron statement.
uh-huh.
not the compromised second draft. and then i, uh. . . ever hear of the seattle seven?
mmnun.
and then. . . let's see, i uh--music business briefly.
oh?
yeah.  roadie for metallica.  speed of sound tour.
uh-huh.
bunch of assholes.  and then, you know, little of this, little of that. my career's, uh, slowed down a bit lately.
what do you do for fun?
oh, you know, the usual.  bowl. drive around.  the occasional acid flashback.
what happened to your house?
jackie treehorn trashed the place. wanted to save the finder's fee.
finder's fee?
he thought i had your father's money, so he got me out of the way while he looked for it.
it is not my father's money, it is the foundation's.  why did he think you had it?  and who does?
larry sellers, a high-school kid. real fucking brat.
jeffrey--
it is a complicated case, maude. lotta ins, lotta outs.  fortunately I have been adhering to a pretty strict, uh, drug regimen to keep my mind, you know, limber.  I am real fucking close to your father's money, real fucking close.  it is just--
i keep telling you, it is the foundation's money.  father does not have any.
huh?  he is fucking loaded.
no no, the wealth was all mother's.
but your father--he runs stuff, he--
we did let father run one of the companies, briefly, but he did not do very well at it.
but he's--
he helps administer the charities now, and i give him a reasonable allowance.  he has no money of his own.  i know how he likes to present himself; father's weakness is vanity. hence the slut.
huh.  jeez.  well, so, did he--is that yoga?
increases?
well yes, what did you think this was all about?  fun and games?
well...no, of course not--
i want a child.
yeah, okay, but see, the dude--
look, jeffrey, i do not want a partner. in fact i do not want the father to be someone i have to see socially, or who will have any interest in rearing the child himself.
huh...
so...that doctor.
exactly.  what happened to your face? did jackie treehorn do that as well?
no, the, uh, police chief of malibu. a real reactionary. . . so your father. . . oh man, i get it!
what?
walter, if you are there, pick up the fucking phone.  pick it up, walter, this is an emergency.  I am not--
dude?
walter, listen, I am at my place, i need you to come pick me up--
i can not drive, dude, it is erev shabbas.
huh?
erev shabbas.  i can not drive.  I am not even supposed to pick up the phone, unless it is an emergency.
it is a fucking emergency.
i understand.  that is why i picked up the phone.
then why can not you--fuck, never mind, just call donny then, and ask him to--
dude, I am not supposed to make calls--
walter, you fucking asshole, we got to go to pasadena!  come  pick me up or I am off the fucking bowling team!
who the fuck are you, man!  come on, man!
relax, man!  no physical harm intended!
who the fuck are you?  why've you been following me?  come on, fuckhead!
hey, relax man, I am a brother shamus.
brother shamus?  like an irish monk?
irish m--what the fuck are you talking about?  my name's da fino!  I am a private snoop!  like you, man!
huh?
a dick, man!  and let me tell you something: i dig your work. playing one side against the other--in bed with everybody--fabulous stuff, man.
I am not a--ah, fuck it, just stay away from my fucking lady friend, man.
hey hey, I am not messing with your special lady--
she is not my special lady, she is my fucking lady friend.  I am just helping her conceive, man!
hey, man, I am not--
who are you working for?  lebowski? jackie treehorn?
the gundersons.
the?  who the fff--
the gundersons.  it is a wandering daughter job.  bunny lebowski, man. her real name is fawn gunderson. her parents want her back.
jesus fucking christ.
crazy, huh?  ran away a year ago.
fuck, man!  that is terrible!
yeah, it sucks.
well maybe you and me could pool our resources--trade information-- professional courtesy--compeers, you know--
i mean we totally fucked it up, man. we fucked up his pay-off.  and got the kidnappers all pissed off, and the big lebowski yelled at me a lot, but he did not do anything.  huh?
well it's, sometimes the cathartic, uh.
I am saying if he knows I am a fuck- up, then why does he still leave me in charge of getting back his wife? because he fucking does not want her back, man!  he is had enough!  he no longer digs her!  it is all a show! but then, why did not he give a shit about his million bucks?  i mean, he knew we did not hand off his briefcase, but he never asked for it back.
what is your point, dude?
his million bucks was never in it, man!  there was no money in that briefcase!  he was hoping they would kill her!  you throw out a ringer for a ringer!
yeah?
shit yeah!
okay, but how does all this add up to an emergency?
huh?
I am saying, i see what you are getting at, dude, he kept the money, but my point is, here we are, it is shabbas, the sabbath, which I am allowed to break only if it is a matter of life and death--
walter, come off it.  you are not even fucking jewish, you're--
what the fuck are you talking about?
you are fucking polish catholic--
what the fuck are you talking about? i converted when i married cynthia! come on, dude!
yeah, and you were--
you know this!
and you were divorced five fucking years ago.
yeah?  what do you think happens when you get divorced?  you turn in your library card?  get a new driver's license?  stop being jewish?
this driveway.
I am as jewish as fucking tevye
it is just part of your whole sick cynthia thing.  taking care of her fucking dog.  going to her fucking synagogue.  you are living in the fucking past.
three thousand years of beautiful tradition, from moses to sandy koufax-- you are goddamn right i live in the past!   i--jesus.  what the hell happened?
where did she been?
visiting friends of hers in palm springs.  just picked up and left, never bothered to tell us.
but i guess she told dieter.
well, she is back.  no thanks to you.
where is the money, lebowski?
who the hell is he?
I will tell you who i am!  I am the guy who is going to kick your phony goldbricking ass!
we know the briefcase was empty, man.  we know you kept the million bucks yourself.
well, you have your story, i have mine.  i say i entrusted the money to you, and you stole it.
as if we would ever dream of taking your bullshit money!
you thought bunny'd been kidnapped and you could use it as a pretext to make some money disappear.  all you needed was a sap to pin it on, and you would just met me.  you thought, hey, a deadbeat, a loser, someone the square community will not give a shit about.
well?  are not you?
well. . . yeah.
all right, get out.  both of you.
look at that fucking phony, dude! pretending to be a fucking millionaire!
i said out.  now.
let me tell you something else. I have seen a lot of spinals, dude, and this guy is a fake.  a fucking goldbricker.
this guy fucking walks.  I have never been more certain of anything in my life!
stay away from me, mister!
put me down, you son of a bitch!
walter!
it is all over, man!  we call your fucking bluff!
walter, for christ's sake!  he is crippled!  put him down!
sure, I will put him down, dude.  rauss! achtung, baby!!
oh, shit.
you are bullies!  cowards, both of you!
oh, shit.
he can not walk, walter!
yeah, i can see that, dude.
you monsters!
help me put him back in his chair.
shit, sorry man.
stay away from me!  you bullies! you and these women!  you will not leave a man his fucking balls!
walter, you fuck!
shit, dude, i did not know.  i wouldn't've done it if i knew he was a fucking crybaby.
we are sorry, man.  we are really sorry.
sure you will see some tank battles. but fighting in desert is very different from fighting in canopy jungle.
uh-huh.
i mean 'nam was a foot soldier's war whereas, uh, this thing should be a fucking cakewalk.  i mean i had an m16, jacko, not an abrams fucking tank.  just me and charlie, man, eyeball to eyeball.
yeah.
that is fuckin' combat.  the man in the black pyjamas, dude.  worthy fuckin' adversary.
who is in pyjamas, walter?
shut the fuck up, donny.  not a bunch of fig-eaters with towels on their heads tryin' to find reverse on a soviet tank.  this is not a worthy--
fuck you.  fuck the three of you.
hey, cool it walter.
there is no ransom if you do not have a fucking hostage.  that is what ransom is.  those are the fucking rules.
zere are no roolz!
no rules!  you cabbage-eating sons- of- bitches--
hey, cool it walter.  listen, pal, there never was any money.  the big lebowski gave me an empty briefcase, man, so take it up with him.
and I would like my undies back!
are they gonna hurt us, walter?
they will not hurt us, donny.  these men are cowards.
okay.  vee take ze money you haf on you und vee call it eefen.
fuck you.
what is mine is mine.
come on, walter!.
almost five!
i got eighteen dollars, dude.
vee fuck you up, man!  vee take your money!
come and get it.
vee fuck you up, man!
come and get it.  fucking nihilist.
i fuck you!  i fuck you!
show me what you got.  nihilist. dipshit with a nine-toed woman.
nussing!
anti-semite!
hy god!  they shot him, walter!
no dude.
they shot donny!
there were not any shots.
then what's...
it is a heart attack.
wha.
call the medics, dude.
wha. . . donny--
hurry dude.  I would go but I am pumping blood.  might pass out.
hello, gentlemen.  you are the bereaved?
yeah man.
francis donnelly.  pleased to meet you.
jeffrey lebowski.
walter sobchak.
the dude, actually.  is what, uh.
excuse me?
nothing.
yes.  i understand you are taking away the remains.
yeah.
we have the urn.
what is this?
that is for the urn.
do not need it.  we are scattering the ashes.
yes, so we were informed.  however, we must of course transmit the remains to you in a receptacle.
this is a hundred and eighty dollars.
yes sir.  it is our most modestly priced receptacle.
well can we--
a hundred and eighty dollars?!
they range up to three thousand.
yeah, but we're--
can we just rent it from you?
sir, this is a mortuary, not a rental house.
we are scattering the fucking ashes!
walter--
just because we are bereaved does not mean we are saps!
sir, please lower your voice--
hey man, do not you have something else you could put it in?
that is our most modestly priced receptacle.
goddamnit walter!  you fucking asshole!
dude!  dude, I am sorry!
you make everything a fucking travesty!
dude, i'm--it was an accident!
what about that shit about vietnam!
dude, I am sorry--
what the fuck does vietnam have to do with anything!  what the fuck were you talking about?!
shit dude, I am sorry--
you are a fuck, walter!
howdy do, dude.
oh, hey man, how are ya?  i wondered if I would see you again.
would not miss the semis.  how things been goin'?
ahh, you know.  strikes and gutters, ups and downs.
thanks, gary...take care, man, i gotta get back.
sure.  take it easy, dude--i know that you will.
yeah man.  well, you know, the dude abides.
