hey.
so what is up?
eh.
great. great.  so listen, uh, i was wondering if maybe you wanted to go to the prom you know, with me.
it is no big deal, whatever i mean, if you want.
see, the thing is, i heard a rumor that this guy i like was gonna ask me.
uh-huh.
yeah, so... I am going to wait and see what happens there... but that sounds great, yeah.
okay.  so is that a yes or a no?
i think i was very clear, ted. if everything else falls apart, maybe.
why do not you be a gentleman and ask rosey?
who?
who?
big guy -- goes to barrington high school.
woogie from borrington high? sounds like a loser.
loser? woogie was all-state football and and basketball and valedictorian of his class.
oh yeah. fine.
thanks a lot, ted.
hey, you are limping. did you just hurt yourself?
no, it is an old football injury.
oh, are you on the team?
no, a couple of the players and me were joking around and, uh, i fell off the school.
piggyback ride.
i do not mind. if you think he can hold me.
oh he can hold you. he weighs two- hundred-and-thirty pounds.
a real clydesdale, huh warren?
we are here, warren. you wanna get off?
giddy-up.
so who you taking to the prom?
huh?
the prom -- you going?
oh, i do not know. i think proms are pretty dumb.
'cause i thought maybe you and i could go if you were not already taking someone.
i mean dumb in the sense that they only happen once a year.
i got twenty bucks says you are full of shit.
oh come on, why would i lie?
because you are a loser, and in some warped way this gives you a momentary sense of worth.
yeah? what do you want?
um, hi, I am ted peloquin. I am here to take mary to the prom.
prom? you are about twenty minutes late. she just left for the prom with her boyfriend woogie.
charlie, that is mean. come on in, ted. do not listen to mr. wise guy here. he is a joke a minute.
oh.  oh, that is a good one.
hi, ted.
hi, mary.
jesus christ, guy, what the hell were you doing?!
i was playing a trick. i-i-i had a baseball.
I am sorry. i should have told you, he is got a thing about his ears.
oh. okay. i gotcha.
are you all right?
oh yeah.
ted, are you okay?
just a minute.
what seems to be the situation here? you shit yourself or something?
i wish.
i, uh... i got it stuck.
you got what stuck?
it.
it?  oh it. all right, these things happen, let me have a look. it is not the end of the world.
oh for the love of god!
shhhhhh!
shirley, get in here! you gotta see this!
what?! no please, sir --
she is a dental hygienist. she will know what to do.
teddy, hon, are you okay?  oh heavens to pete!
would you shhh! mary's going to hear us.
just relax, dear. now, um... what exactly are we looking at here?
what do you mean?
i mean is it... is it...?
is it the frank or the beans?
i think a little of both.
one guess.
how the hell'd you get the beans all the way up top like that?
i do not know. it is not like it was a well thought-out plan.
ho there.
oh god.
everything okay here? neighbors said they heard a lady scream.
you are looking at him. c'mere and take a look at this beauty.
no, that is really unneces --
now I have seen it all. what the hell were you thinking?
i was not trying --
is that bubble what i think it is?
well, there is only one thing to do.
no, no, no, I will be fine. I will just hang my shirttail out and work on it in the morning.
look, son, this'll only hurt for a second.
no, no, please!
teddy, be brave.
ted, I am so sorry. are you going to be okay?
you betcha!
gay? he said you were gay?
he implied it.
well you are a writer, and a lot of writers are gay. look at truman capote.
yeah, but he was successful.
let me ask you this: when you smoke a cigar, do you ever pretend it has balls?
come on, that would not make me gay.
I am going to fix you up with my new assistant.
what is he like?
you are leaving it out. finish your swing.  you are going to like this one -- she is half asian, half american.
good-looking?
i just told you, she is half asian. half american. they are all good looking. you could mate don rickles and yoko ono and they are going to have a gorgeous kid. it is a foolproof combo.
what is the point? let's face it, dom, I am in a slump.  lately I have been feeling like... well... like a loser.
loser? you?
give me a break. remember five years ago, when your kidneys failed? if you were a loser would they have been able to find a donor with an exact tissue match? what are the odds of that, one in a million?
oh, so I am lucky because my brother got killed in an explosion?
i never said that. I am saying your lucky those kids found his kidneys.  besides, your brother jimmy never gave a shit about you.
it must be great with a wife like that.
each day is better than the next.  have you ever been, you know... in love with someone?
nah.
never?
well once. mary.
mary again.
look, i admit it was brief, but it was definitely love. crushes do not last twelve years.
whatever happened to mary?
i told you, her family moved to miami.
i mean since then.
i do not know.
well why do not you look her up?
yeah, right.
why not?
because i guarantee she is married and has a couple kids. girls like mary do not stay single.
what if you are wrong? you just said she is the only girl you ever loved, what have you got to lose by calling her?
i did try calling her.  a few years ago. she was not listed.
so that was it? one bump in the road and you gave up?
i also called unsolved mysteries.
you are kidding? what did they say?
they told me they do not help out stalkers.  look, maybe they are right, it is been a long time.
i got it -- you hire a private eye, fly him out there, he follows her around a couple days, she will never know a thing.
i do not know about this, dom.
relax, this guy owes me a big one. a couple years ago he got in a jam up in the boston office; some bullshit about padding his resume -- like we have not all done that. anyway, they were going to let him go but his mother wrote a tear-jerker letter that ended up on my desk.
his mother?
yeah, i guess he still lives with her. seemed like a sweet lady -- got diabetes or something -- so i went out on a limb and got him transferred down to providence.
and you think he could find out her number for me?
he will do better than that. I will send him down to miami on business, you throw him a couple bucks on the side, and he will track her down.
so, dom tells me you are looking for some lady-friend you knew in high school.
uh-huh.
any idea where i might start looking?
she moved to miami beach twelve years ago. i checked directory assistance down there and she is not listed. she might have moved ten times since then.
all you want is a phone number?
well, i know you are busy...
do not play games with me, ted.
i do not know, maybe you could poke around for a half day and see if she has five kids and a labrador.
i do not buy it.
you do not buy what?
ted, I am the kind of guy who shoots from the hip. now i want you to level with me: did you knock this skirt up?
no.
she is blackmailing you, right?
no.
you want her dead, do not you?
you can not be serious.
do you really expect me to believe this is a straight stalker case?
I am not a stalker! she is a friend of mine.
sure she is. that is why she got an unlisted number and you have not heard squat from her in a dozen years. oh you are good, ted. you are a real piece of work.
look, let's forget it. let's forget the whole thing.
i get one hundred a day plus expenses.
you get fifty a day, period. it is a business trip, they will pay for your expenses.
healy you dog!
fucking sully! look at you!
you hot shit. ya look fuckin' pisser.
here's the info you asked for.
thanks.
you should thank me -- that girl was not easy to find. what did she scam you out of-some insurance dough?
nah, some guy threw me a few bucks to track down his high school girlfriend.
stalker, huh?
big time.
very nice.
I am doing okay.  i got to get ready for work.
okay? with this pad, the killer wheels? looks like you really cleaned up your act.
what can i tell you? it is a healthier lifestyle down here, and it is easier to succeed when your head's clear. those guys i worked with back in boston, they were a bad influence.
fuckin' animals. hey, what do you say we go grab a couple drinks.
not for me, buddy. i do not drink anymore.
yeah, and you do not drink any less, right?
take it easy, that is bill.
tell bill to get the fuck off!
relax, he just ate.
nineteen months i been sober.
what are you talking about? you were never an alky, you were a cokehead.
yeah, well when you quit blow, you gotta quit the booze, too.
is that right? well good for you, sull, I am proud of you.
here, just have one of these then.
healy, what i just tell you?
this is a light beer. you can not have a light beer?
no i can't.
I am worried about you, man. you better learn to have a pop once in a while or you are going to fall off the wagon. you are being a fanatic and that am not healthy.
am i?
bet your ass you are. now i do not want to hear anymore of your happy horseshit. you got to learn how to bend a little or believe me... you are going to break.
jesus, you know what? this shit does not even taste good to me anymore.
ah, fuck ya then, you big pussy. what are you, spotting?
have you been up all night again?
bet your ass i have. it is an important job, neighborhood watch is.
neighborhood watch? is that what you call listening in on stranger's phone conversations?
these am not strangers, they are neighbors. this only picks up signals in a half-mile radius.
meaning?
meaning these are the people you live amongst, you got a right to know if they are creeps. for instance, did you know there is a guy down the hall cheating on his wife?
you picked that up on the scanner. we gotta move.
i confirmed it on the scanner. i knew something was up because puffy used to bark like hell whenever he saw him and you know puffy only barks at bad people.
magda, puffy barks at everybody.
that is because there is a lot of bad people out there. hey, puffy tried to warn you about that steve guy you was seeing -- he was a fucking asswipe -- but you had to find out for yourself, did not you?
okay, you win. now try to get some sleep, huh.
no, it should be 'a hockey player with great pecs.'
ugh, not pecs. sounds like one of those guys with a fish-net shirt and a banana hammock.
I am just saying i do not mind a guy with a bit of a beer belly. it means he is a guy. you can have those pretty boys who hang out in a gym all day staring at their reflections.
a girl after your own heart, ted.
i can live with those reflections.
I am sick of these calorie-countin' pansies. give me a guy who likes kielbasa and beer and playing thirty- six holes and still has enough energy to take me and warren out to a ballgame.
jeez, i do not know where you are ever going to find a guy like that.
but here's the rub. the guy I am talking about has got to be self- employed.
yeah, and you would probably dump the poor guy halfway to katmandu.
what is that supposed to mean?
it means you are too hard on guys.
no I am not.
oh come off it, mare. what about what's-his-name... steverino? you could have at least passed the baton on that one.
yeah, steve. steve was all right for awhile.
all right for awhile? the guy's good- looking, rich, witty. he was a god.
i do not know, it was complicated. he is in san francisco, I am in miami.  besides, magda's psychic dog hated him.
is that old crab still with you? mary, you said you were putting her up for a month -- it is been a year and a half.
ah, she is okay.
what? steve seemed to put up with warren.
i do not want someone who will put up with him. i want someone who will enjoy him, the way i do. do you know what he told my friend tucker? he said he would have popped the question a lot earlier if warren was not in my life.  well he is in my life and I am goddamn lucky to have him. the hell with steve.
hello...? sully...?  sully, that you?
who the fuck is it to you?
sully, it is healy. what is going on over there?
uh, I am fine. just wanted to let you know I will have your car back in a couple hours, I am still staking out this girl's apartment.
you found my car?!
jesus, mary, you got to hear this -- some cop's staking out this broad's apartment.
no time, magda, my show's starting.
this is a good one, mare. sounds like his partner's all lubed up.
call you back.
I have got some very, very good news for you, my friend.
really?  very, very?
i think your life's about to change.
so you found mary?
right there in liberty city. and you were right, she is really something.
so she has not changed?
that i could not say. let me ask you something: was she a little big-boned in high school?
no, not at all.
well she must have packed on a few pounds over the years.
mary's a little chubby, huh?
I would say about a deuce, deuce and a half. not bad.
but you know, you shit out a bunch of kids, you are going to put on a few pounds.
so she is married?
nope. never been.
huh?
four kids, three different guys.
three different guys?
well I am guessing. there is a black kid, two whites, and a midget.
oh my.
hyperactive little fuckers, too. tough to keep up with in a wheelchair, i bet.
she is in a wheelchair?!
do not look so shocked, it is been a long time. i bet you have changed a lot over the last twelve years, have not you?
it is just that... mary. i would not have thought...
anyway, the good news is i have all the information you need. got it from her bookie -- nice guy. you should definitely call her, ted. i mean she is a real sparkplug, that one. she seems determined to get those rugrats off welfare and with your help I will bet she does it.
thanks, healy. good work.
ted? do not you want the name of the housing project?
uh, that is okay.
you sure, big guy? I will bet she would love to hear from you before her mastectomy!
what are you doing?
oh, uh, i resigned.
miami?
yeah, this insurance business is too slow for me. I am going to go down and try my hand at jai alai.
jai alai?
yeah, i do not know why but i always felt at home in the fronton.
look, uh, I have been thinking about everything you told me.
good good.
well i think you are right, i should look her up.
rollerpig? are you nuts?
but you said she was a sparkplug...?
i said buttplug. she is heinous.
all the same, i still want to call her. i know it sounds crazy -- mary sure has a lot of troubles in her life -- but, i do not know, maybe i can help her out.  the poor thing's had it tough -- she is in a wheelchair for godsakes.
it is a goddamn bunion. it will heal.
oh. i thought  that is not it anyway. i know this does not make any sense to you, but i just can not turn it off that fast. i still feel something for her.
okay, tell you what: I will get her number for you just as soon as she gets back from japan.
japan? what is she doing in japan?
you have heard of mail-order brides? well they go that way, too.
mary's a mail-order bride?
fetched a pretty penny, too. do not forget, it is the sumo culture, they pay by the pound there. sort of like tuna.
that is it, I am making an oath. I will never procrastinate about anything again. life is too fucking short.
hey, look on the bright side --
what is that, dom? what is the bright side?
well... at least now you know.
i think it was better when i didn't. it was kind of inspiring to know there was someone so pure in the world.
what is so funny?
I am sorry, it is just that you are taking this all wrong, pal. do not you see? you are liberated. i feel liberated. i mean here you have been in therapy thinking you blew it with the greatest girl ever, and it turns out that getting your dick stuck in your zipper was the best thing that ever happened to you!
wait a second, i never told you that.
christ, ted, i was only four towns away.
maybe you are right. i should look on the bright side. i mean, I have still got my health...  I am out of here. I have got to get up at six a.m. to move my boss's brother into his apartment.
what? on your day off? do you even know the guy?
never met him.
jesus, ted, you have got to finish that damn novel so you can quit that stupid magazine.
amen to that.
yeah, do not talk in someone is backswing.
thanks.
I am going to get a soda, you want one?
no thanks.
oh cripes. do you have change for a dollar? all i have is these stupid nepalese coins.
nepal? have you been?
not in months. i do not even know why i bought the damn place.
you own a home there?
well... it is just a condo really. right outside katmandu.
wow. that is a place I have always wanted to go. is it true the mountains are so tall you can not see the tops?
not 'til you get about three hundred yards from the summit. that is been my experience anyway.
here. spend it on your trip to katmandu.
thanks.
well, it was nice meeting you, again.
same here again.
by the way, what is your name?
pat healy.
do not you want to know my name?
i already know it, mary.
how did you know that?
it is right there on your golf bag.
what are you doing with all these blueprints?
some buildings I am working on.
are you... an architect?
well, just until i get my pga tour card.
I am kidding. yeah, i guess you could call me an architect -- it is just a job really, a way to keep me moving. my real passion is my hobby.
what is that?
i work with retards.
i beg your pardon?
you know...  ...the guys who ride the short bus.
is not that a little politically incorrect?
the hell with that. no one's going to tell me who i can and can not work with.
no, i mean
-- there is this one kid, we call him mongo on account of he is a mongoloid. he got out of his cage once and --
-- he is in a cage?!
well it is more of an enclosure really.
they keep him confined? that is bullshit!
that is what i said, so i went out and got him a leash you know, one of those clothesline runners for the backyard. he is got plenty of room out there to dig. the kid's really blossomed. now i can take him to ball games, movies -- you know, happy stuff.
that sounds like fun.
yeah, it is fun for them, but it is heaven for me.  those goofy bastards are just about the best thing i have in this crazy old world.  ooh, hey, i got to run.
look, uh, i was thinking maybe we should go have dinner sometime.
hey, shit-for-brains, be careful not to scratch that thing, huh?
what?
you heard me. you already put a fucking nick in my piano.
I will try to be more careful.
s'matter with you? you look like you are fading.
the thing's kind of heavy.
heavy? heavy?! what i would not give to know what heavy feels like, you insensitive prick.
no, i just meant...
yeah yeah. I am going to the corner to get a cup of coffee.
so... i see you made the news.
it was not my truck -- i was helping out a guy in a wheelchair.
uh-huh. where was he?
out getting coffee.
yeah, that is more or less what the others said, too. out getting coffee... supposed to meet him here... picking up my grandma...
bob, do you remember mary?
who?
mary.
from high school mary? yeah, i saw her about six months ago at a convention in las vegas.
a convention? how did you see her at a convention?
I am an orthopedic surgeon, she is an orthopedic surgeon.
mary's a babe!
what?
my mary -- she is not in japan, she is single, and she is got no rugrats. she does have a little gambling problem, she plays the football cards a bit too much, but she is a babe, a surgeon babe!
huh? but why did healy?
well think about it.
no you mean...?
uh-huh.
the lazy fuck just did not bother to look her up.
that sneaky prick was probably practicing his jai alai.
well then you have got to call her, man.
fuck calling her. I am going down there.
so who is the lucky guy?
name's patrick, i met him at the driving range.
good lookin'?
he is no steve young.
what is he like?
i do not know. he is kind of a mook.
what is a mook?
you know, a mookalone, a schlep.
then why you going out with him if he is a schlep?
come on, magda  it is like that movie harold and maude.
i do not watch the new ones.
this one's almost thirty years old. it is about a young kid and an old lady who fall in love.
that is exactly why i do not watch 'em anymore -- it is bullshit! why the hell would an old lady go for a young kid?
the point is, love is not about money or social standing or age, it is about connecting with someone, having things in common kindred spirits.
fuck kindred spirits. my little puffy here's going to tell you all you need to know about this guy in about two seconds flat. if he starts yapping, he is a loser; if puffy's relaxed... well, you got yourself a keeper.
oh, pufferball likes his little tum- tum rubbed, does not he now?
wow, I have never seen him like this. he does not usually like guys.
you mean he does not like bad guys.
'that right?
he can tell you are an animal nut. you are, are not ya?
truth is i usually get along better with animals than with people. in nepal the villagers call me 'kin-tan- tee', which means 'man who is loved by many animals...  ...who love him a lot, too... and so on.'
would you like a glass of tea or something?
you got a brew?
sure.  uh, magda, why do not you get some more cheese and crackers...?
oh, yeah, of course, dear.
sorry, pat, out of beer. you like vodka?
great.
would you like a little clam-dip, honey?
no, thanks.  love a little bundt cake if you have some!
bundt cake?
must have a sweet tooth. see if you can find some cookies.
fine. fine.
here you go.  what is that smell?
the museum? i thought we were going out to dinner?
we will, but first i have a surprise.
a surprise?
the architecture exhibit! my friend tucker is going to be here. he is an architect, too. you guys will have tons to talk about.
i know he is around here someplace.
what say we get outta here and go crush a bucket?
we just got here thirty seconds ago. is not this stuff great?
is this one art deco or art nouveau?
deco.
would you call that a portico or a vestibule?
that...? vestibule.
how about -- ?
when you look at architecture, try not to concern yourself with the pieces -- look at the building in its totalitarianism.
pleasure to meet you, patrick.
same here.
pat's an architect, too.
hey, no kidding? where are your offices?
mainly i work out of boston.
boston, huh? did you get your degree up there?
yes yes, i did get my degree up there.
harvard?
you bet.
did you study under kim greene?
among others.
kim and i are close friends!
well, I will tell her i ran into you.
you mean him.
really? but he is been married for twenty years -- they have got six kids.
nice smokescreen, is not it?
pat does projects all over the world.
where would i have seen your work?
have you been to  let's see -- santiago, chile?
absolutely! i was there twice last year. which building is yours?
do you know the... soccer stadium?
did you build the estadio olympico?
no... just down the street, the amigo tower.
I am sorry, I am not familiar with it. what style?
uh, sort of nouveau deco... with a big vestibule. check it out next time you are up there.
you know, i really should take your card.
oh look, it is doob! will you excuse me a minute, tucker?
thanks for picking me up.
no prob, i could use the company. I have been on the road going on fifteen hours straight.
i know how you feel -- i been standing in the same spot for the last five hours. you know it is against the law to pick up a hitchhiker in this state.
that must make it tough.
sucks. so what is up? you some kind of salesman or something?
nah. i'm... I am nothing.
oh. well i am.
hm?
a salesman -- that is what i am. i mean, I am going to be anyway. I am starting my own company -- video sales -- just as soon as i get enough seed money.
'that right? good for you.
yeah, you would not believe my idea -- it is a home run. you ever hear of eight-minute abs?
the exercise tape? sure, I have seen it on t.v.
two million copies it sold last year. two million, man. but not next year -- my idea's going to blow them outta the water. get this:  seven-minute abs.
i see where you are going.
think about it. you walk into a video store and you see eight-minute abs and right next to it you see seven- minute abs -- which one you gonna spring for?
I would go with the seven.
bingo. especially since we guarantee you will get every bit as good a work- out.
how do you guarantee that?
well it is the company motto: 'if you am not happy we will send you the extra minute.'
huh. that sounds great.  unless someone else comes out with six-minute abs.
no! i was pissing!
yeah, I will bet you all were. come on, in the truck.
that grandmother of yours -- she is really something.
magda? she is not my grandmother -- actually she rents the apartment right next to mine. her husband passed away a couple years ago so she does not like to be alone.
and it does not cramp your style?
sadly, no. well except for the lint.
lint?
yeah, i think it is that dog of hers running around on the rug all day -- just makes for a lot of lint. look at this...
you know, sometimes i wish i could be like magda and not go home. I would like to just bounce around for awhile, do a little traveling...
why bounce when you have your own condo in nepal to go to?
ah, I would sell that. start fresh in a new place, quit the architect game, slow things down, read more books, see more movies...
you are a movie buff?
try to be. it is tough going with the crap they make today. if dumb and dumber's the best they have got to offer i say thanks but no thanks.
have you seen it?
no. but the boston globe critic jay carr hated it.
a fucking moron.
huh. i guess i just wish they made them like they used to. you know, something like the heartbreak kid... or harold and maude.
harold and maude is my all-time favorite movie.
ouch. come on, do not bust my chops. i know it is corny, but i do love it.
pat, I am not kidding. i really think it is the greatest --
-- love story of our time.
yeah.
wow. i thought i was the only one.
so...
yeah... i guess this is it, huh?
i guess.
well, I will see ya.
mary ah, forget it.
what?
no, forget it, it was stupid.
come on, what were you going to say?
nah, really, it was moronic.
is not that just my luck -- i get caught for everything.
so you admit it?
guilty as charged. I am not going to play games with you. i could give you a song and dance but what is the point? i did it and we all know it.  the hitcher himself told me it is illegal. the irony...
well, uh, can you tell us his name?
jeez, i did not catch it.
this was not your first time, was it, ted? how many we talking?
hitchhikers? i do not know -- fifty... a hundred maybe -- who keeps track?
what is up, doc?
tucker, you look different some how. did you do something with your hair?
you do not think they are too big?
no no, the bigger the better.  but i must say, they could be a little brighter. nothing's sexier than a mouthful of pearly whites.
he is a nice guy, is not he?
well that is what I am trying to figure out. how long have you known him?
not long at all, but i really like him.  okay, i know he is a little different, tucker, but that is what i like about him. he is a guy. a real guy. he dresses like a dork and eats corndogs and he is not always politically correct and he probably farts, too. and that is okay with me.
that is what you have been looking for -- a farter?
I have been looking for a guy -- not one of these south beach pussies.
look, it is just that something about him struck me as odd last night. he gave me this funny vibe. anyway, i called some friends back east. they do not know of any architect named patrick healy and he is not listed as a harvard alumnus.
fuck!!
huh... that is strange.
i thought so. anyway, i hope you do not think I am being meddlesome. i just think you should be careful with this guy.
no no no, tucker, thank you.
i mean let's face it, mary, you are beautiful, you have got money, you trust people -- I am just saying, there is a lot of psychos out there.
i appreciate you looking out for me.
no harm, no foul?
i guess.
you are one lucky sonofabitch, you know that?
i am?
did not they tell you? that hitcher was just about to cut your throat when you stopped to take a leak. you got a fucking horseshoe up your ass, man.
yeah feels like it.
how the hell did you get here anyway?
flew.  told my wife i was going to a promise keepers convention.
shoot.
remember our friend healy? well, i did not know where to mail his last paycheck so i sent my assistant by his mother's apartment. turns out there is no diabetic mom. landlord said she is been dead for ten years.
and this adversely affects me how...?
do not you see? -- healy lied to us about everything! the landlord said when he got back from miami he kept talking about falling for some doctor named mary!
hey hey, what did you say pat's last name was?
healy.
so where the hell are you, healy?
ah, i got a date tonight with that mary girl i told you about.
the sawbones?
yep.
oh yeah.
dumbshit.
turn it up, magda.
hey, watch your mouth -- she is a great gal. I am the dumbshit for lying to her.
why did not you just tell her the truth?
i do not know. i guess... it just seems that women today are more impressed by the mighty buck than by some schmo who spent the last seventeen years scraping by on peace corp wages.
but jesus, pat, if she is as special as you say, she is going to want to hear about the things you did.
ahh.
the bottom line is, I am not going to use my philanthropy as some form of currency... especially after what i did.  i lied to this poor girl. lied, man. she deserved better.
hey, love will make you do fucked-up things.
you said it, mister.  i gotta go.
all set.
you look great.  hey, mare, do i have a rip in the back of these pants?
fuck me.  let's go home.
no! you have gone through way too much to back down now. get over there and do something -- i can not stand watching this.
how is my stomach taste, she says.  hey thanks for picking up the lunch tab, mare. sorry i forgot my wallet. i feel like a dog.
forget it. it was... fun.
franks and beans!
jesus, i think her brother spotted me.
urrggghh...
warren!
are you okay?
not to worry. so... see you tonight, right? right?
sure.
well? what are you waiting for?
i do not know what to say.
tell her the truth about healy! blow the schmuck out of the water.
are you crazy? I have unleashed a psycho on her. she is going to be fucking pissed.  she is even more beautiful than i remember.
you asshole, what are you --  mary! is that you?
who is that?
oh my god... ted.  what are you...? i can not believe this. i have not seen you since --
yup, that is right. junior prom... kinda.
and did everything -- ?
oh yeah, healed right up. no visible scars.
how are you doing, warren?
good, ted. piggy back ride?
I am going to take a rain check.
i can not believe he remembered you. he never remembers anybody.  you know i tried to call you for weeks after that.
really? i never got a message.
that is weird. i talked to your brother jimmy five or six times.
by the way, how is he doing?
he is dead.
oh, ted I am so sorry to hear that.
no, it was a good thing.  i mean, good in that it was very quick.
oh. so... what brings you down here?
funny story. you see, me and a buddy of mine decided to... ah... you know... just... drive down.
well you look great. are you married, do you have kids?
nope, nope -- dodged a few bullets.  god, i cannot believe I am standing here with mary jenson.
actually, it is mary brooks now.
oh... are you... ?
nope, have not walked the plank yet.  there was this guy back in college who was bothering me... got kind of ugly -- a restraining order, the whole bit. anyway, when i got out of princeton i changed my name as a precaution.
jeez... that sounds awful. hey, what do you say we go out to dinner tonight, catch up on old times?
I am kidding. I would really love to, ted, but the thing is i already have plans. how about tomorrow night?
mary, we have not seen each other in twelve years.  do not make me wait another day.
I am buying bananas tonight.
why?
back when i was your age i always used to make myself a big banana split after sex. i think you are going to need one tonight.
do not get ahead of yourself. you will probably need it before i will.
do not bet on it. last time i had a pap smear the guy needed leather gloves and an oyster shucker.
so maybe i could find a nice gentleman to take you to the movies.
knock it off, pollyanna, just 'cause you are in love does not mean everyone else has to be.
love? come on, i would not call it love.
oh no? i am not seen you beaming like this since you broke ninety on the blue monster.
an old flame?
kind of. ted peloquin -- one of the sweetest guys in the world.
no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
we are going to go out tonight. oh, that reminds me, I have got to call what's- his-face and cancel.
you vicious bitch, how do you sleep at night?
i can not do it -- i just found out it is his birthday.  i guess I have got to cancel on ted.
can i pour you one?
thanks, but I have got to be going. unfortunately, doc, this is not a social visit.
what is up?
well... I have got a little more news about your friend healy.
i think you would better sit down.
tucker, i appreciate you doing all this, but I am really strapped for time here and --
mary, the man's a killer.
what...?
I have got a friend in the boston police department. he faxed me this this morning. I will just give you the highlights.  after a short stint as a petty thief, patrick r. healy graduated to armed robbery by the age of fourteen. at sixteen he committed his first murder -- a pretty teacher's aid named molly pettygrove. he was incarcerated until age twenty-two when, despite a grim psychological profile, the state was forced to release him. in his mid- twenties and again in his early thirties he was suspected of homicides in the states of utah and washington. unfortunately, the bodies were so badly decomposed that there was not enough evidence to hold him, and on and on and so forth and so on.
holy shit...
puffy, get over here.
magda!
the little shit lied to me about that guy!
i can not believe this is happening. I am supposed to be meeting him in an hour.
okay, just calm down. it is going to be okay.
magda's right, I am so lucky to have you in my life.
do not get all gooey on me now, you will give me a big head.  the important thing, doctor, is you have got to distance yourself as much as possible without pissing this psycho off.
yeah, yeah. okay, i think i know what to do. I will call him right now.
hi, I am out drinking champagne and roses... and I am really happy. leave a message. beep.
uh, hey buddy. oh boy, am i pissed. you are not going to believe this -- well, you will believe it, there is no reason not to -- but i just got beeped for emergency surgery. well, um, sorry, but I am going to have to bail on you.
oh god, I am fucking nervous. i do not know if I am ready for this, man.
just relax. have you hit the cash machine?
got cash.
car clean? plenty of gas?
check.
mints?
copped a tin of altoids at the car wash.
okay, sounds like you are all set. just clean the pipes and it is a go.
hm?
you know, clean the pipes.
pipes? what are you talking about?
you jerk off before all big dates, right? tell me you jerk off before your big dates.
think about it: after you have had sex with a girl and the two of you are laying in bed, are you nervous?
no.
why is that?
I am usually too tired to be.
wrong. it is because you am not got the baby batter in your brain any more. that will fuck with your head, that stuff will.
huh.
the most honest moment in a man's life is the five minutes after he is blown a load. that is a medical fact. and it is because you are no longer trying to get laid. you are actually thinking like a girl. they love that.
jesus christ you are right.
you bet your ass I am right. you do not go out with a loaded gun, you empty the barrels!
holy shit, I have been going out with a loaded gun!
people get hurt that way.
hey.
hi, ted.
you look great.
thanks.
what is that?
hm?
on your ear, you have got something.
sure.
oh great, i ran out.
okay, pat, take it easy -- do not do anything stupid.
who the fuck do you think you are making up that bullshit about me?!
whoa, whoa -- i do not know what you are talking about.
maybe this'll jog your memory.
that stalker ted got to you, right? you are working for him, are not you, you little shit?
who?
you what?
you heard me, goddamnit. i... i love her.
I am a phony -- just like you, man.
what do you mean?
i mean I am a fucking fraud. I am no architect. do not be a putz -- who is been to santiago twice in a year?  estadio olimpico -- please!
but... but you knew people at harvard.
i knew shit. the only thing i knew was that you were a fake and i made up everything else.  my real name's norm. i deliver pizzas.
bullshit!
now by killer, you mean...?
i mean he murdered someone and did time back in boston. the guy's a freak.
jeez, mary... i'm...
well, lucky for me i found out. thank god i have friends like tucker.  look, I am sick of talking about stalkers.  let's talk about you.
...so then in '94 i went back to dade community college for a semester and when the wal-mart cashier job fell through i hooked up with the pizza barn.
and you met mary how?
just dumb luck. i delivered a pie to her one night and she answered the door in her nightgown -- that was it for me. i went home that night, shaved my beard, and a week later i was laid out in her office with a broken back.
how did you manage that one?
friend. baseball bat.
nice.
oh yeah, the plan was going along just fine until you showed up.
hey, hey, hey, I am not the one who started telling bald-faced lies about the competition -- that is crossing the line!
what line? the day you first laid your oily rap on my future wife you started a war!
future wife? get real, man -- you are nothing more than a glorified brother in her eyes.
why you son of a --
you hit the ball pretty good for a fourteen.
no short game.
we should play some time... i mean, if you can afford to lose some money.
what are you?
twenty-two.
bullshit, a twenty-two does not carry a one-iron -- do not sandbag me, lady.
okay, sometimes I am a nineteen.
that is more like it.  two more nitrate-sicles please.
nitrate-sicles -- i like that.
i say they should put more meats on a stick, you know? they got a lot of sweets on sticks -- popsicles, fudgesicles, lollipops -- but hardly any meat.
i agree there should be more.
you know what I would like to see? meat in a cone. you could put corned beef hash in a cone, or chopped liver.
i like it. and think of the toppings -- cheese, mushrooms, mint jelly
not to mention ketchup and hot peppers.
it is too bad you do not live down here, ted.
yeah?
we have got a lot in common.
well... why do not you move back?
ah, my roots here are too deep. i love my practice, the people i work with, warren's got a nice thing going  why do not you just move down here and marry me?
so you are a writer?
trying to be.
well good for you. i bet it works out for you.
we will see. if it doesn't, what the hell, at least i gave it a shot.
that is right. and the good thing is you can do it anywhere.
what about you, mare? how the hell'd you manage to stay single?
i do not know... my friends think I am too picky. i think I am just a weirdo magnet. i did come close once -- just last year, in fact. there was this guy he lived in san francisco.
that stalkin' son-of-a-bitch!
fucking sickening.
how many is that?
four.
that seems like a lot of speed for a little pooch -- you sure it will not kill him?
i never said that.
...and then it was all over.  we have not spoken since.
wow. that is too bad. he sounds almost perfect.
yeah... almost.  you want to come up and watch sportscenter?
uh no. i think I am going to get out while I am ahead.
ted... you are not that far ahead.
look, mary, the truth is... I will be in town for a while now but i do not think we should see each other for a few weeks.
why not?
well... to be honest... I am really crazy about you and it is making me nervous and when i get nervous I am not myself and I am afraid I am going to doing something really dumb before we get started so i think i should just lay back until i regain my composure.
that is really sweet, ted, but you should save it for one of your books.
all right, let's go.
oh, hi hon. just straightening up.
where is puffy?
ah, he was being a pest so i put him in the bathroom.
um, ted, i need a moment with magda -- would you let the dog out of the bathroom.
yeah, sure.
uh, mare, what kind of dog is puffy?
toy poodle!
get out.
wait, hold on, mary -- it is not as bad as it sounds. i certainly did not know --
that you put a murderer on my trail?
well yeah, i did not know much about him. i just thought --
what did you think, ted? that you could spy on me and trick me into thinking you were someone i could... really go for?
mary, i swear i was not trying to trick you.
then what the fuck did you do it for?
i did it because because I would never stopped thinking about you and if i did not find you i knew my life would never be good again.
please leave.
mary, come on...
go!
okay.
ho-ly shit.
hey, this is a pretty nice place.
sully...! what the fuck happened here?!
hey, hey, hey!
surprised?
you fucked me, man? why would you do that?
what do you mean 'why'?
answer the question, shitball.
look, you asked me to follow your girl around, and i did and i started to like her, and then i realized i just could not in good conscience do it.
do what?
turn her over to a stalker.
what?! you are calling me a stalker?
that is right -- if you were not you would have looked for her yourself!
oh christ... poor dog.
you are a sick man, you know that?
yeah well fuck you! you just can not stand the fact that it was my turn.
your turn?
that is right, hot shot! my turn. what is the matter with me, huh? why can not i ever get the great girl? give the big pig with the b.o. to healy, right? well i was sick of it, man! no more -- it was my turn. it was time for me... time for me... to be happy.
well you did not have to blow us both out of the water. jesus christ, just because she found out about you, why did you have to take me down with you?
i do not know what you are talking about.
I am talking about the letter, asshole.
what?
are you telling me you did not send mary a letter outlining our deal?
why the fuck would i do that? I would be screwing myself.
you little fuck.
what?
you fucking prick, we had a deal -- you said you would not fuck me and i would not fuck you until we had this fuck out of the fucking picture.  you crossed the line, man.
i swear! i did not tell her nothing! you probably did it yourself, you piece of shit.
oh that makes a lot of sense. why would i rat myself out?
like I am going to try to figure out a guy who is idea of courting is blowing farts in the chick's face
you were following us?
do not flatter yourself -- i was following her, i always do. how the hell you think i got rid of mary's boyfriend steve?
oh... sully.
look, if it was not you who sent the letter, and it was not me who sent it?
did you get my letter, mare? the one about ted?
you sent that?
uh-huh. i was worried about you.
well... thank you. but... you know you are not supposed to be within four hundred yards of me.
that is what i want to tell ya. I have been through two years of extensive psychotherapy and you know what? you were right -- i needed help.
that is great, woogie, I am happy you are better -- you seem... good --but... you put me through quite an ordeal, you know.
look at me, mary. on my mother's soul, on god above, on everything that is holy to me, i did not steal your shoes.
woogie, i caught you red-handed.
all right, i did, but i was in a weird place then.
woogie, please, you are starting to scare me.
who the hell's woogie?
I am asking you to leave.
oh, mary, honey, you are taking this all wrong.  I am not leaving...
...not until i get a little something to remember you by.
stop that! no! somebody help me!!!!!
stop it!
just one pair! you owe me that much, you heartless bitch!
we are in love with your roommate.
aw, christ, i can not take it anymore. I am going to pack my bags and go back to my own place.
dom? what are you?
you stole her from me. now i want her back.
woogie and i went out for awhile in high school.
you are woogie?
dom wooganowski. duh.
but but you are married. you have kids a great wife.
if you are so happy with them, please, be my guest.
i say none of us leave this room until our young mary here stops jerking us around and decides once and for all who she wants. now mary, i know this is difficult but you really will be doing them all a favor to tell them the truth about us.
are you crazy? why would i pick you? you are a murderer.
uh, well... not exactly. you see, i exaggerated a little there.
you mean he is not a criminal?
name's norm. i live up in pompano with my folks.
oh jesus...
see you, warren.
huh...?
see you, warren.
bye, ted.
what what are you doing here?
you forgot your keys!
ted...?
i... i just want you to be happy, mary.
but i think I would be happiest... with you.
but but what about steve?
oh yeah, that would make golf real fun -- the guy does not even drink beer or gamble.
get over here.
really?
really.
