at-at-at-at-at.  at-at-at-at-at.
what are you doing?
what does it look like I am doing?  I am killing iraqis.  at-at-at-at-at.  at-at- at-at--
could you stop, please.  you are giving me a headache.
a headache?
yeah, a headache.  my head hurts.  you are making me uncomfortable.
I am making you uncomfortable.  baking away in a desert in the middle of nowhere facing three-hundred-thousand screaming iraqis with nerve gas scud missiles, that does not bother you.  but me making a little noise is driving you out of your skull.
yes.  yes.  that is exactly it.  yes.
okay.
at-at-at-at-at.
knock it off!
do not get pissed at me, just 'cause i want to be ready when this war starts.
ready for what?  what are you supposed to be doing?
i told you, I am shooting iraqis.
no you are not.
you know what?  i think you got schwarzkopf.  you did!  you got the general right in the ass.  now that is good shooting.
blow me.
another month in this desert and i might just.
think we are going to do it?  think we are going to war?
not up to us.  up to the iraqis.  all they have to do is get out of kuwait.
we ought to kick their asses anyway. even if they do get out of kuwait we ought to kick their asses.
i do not think we will go to war.  we should not even be here.  this is not our fight, it is a regional conflict.  it should be decided regionally.
people are suffering.
people were suffering in afganistan, and we did not do anything.
...and it is very important when you sit down never to point the soles of your shoes at anyone.  it is considered offensive.
you know so much about the middle east, you know where we can get something to eat.
when do you ever point the soles of your feet at people?
I am saying do not do it accidently.
oh yeah.  accidently.
come on.  you are going to get us in trouble.
it was an accident.  you saw it was an accident.
I am just trying to help you guys out.  it does not hurt to know something about saudi arabia.
like learning arabic?  you are going to learn arabic you might as well learn were we can get something to eat around here.
i did not learn arabic because we were getting shipped here.  you do not learn it in a couple of weeks.  i studied it in high school.
spanish was not hard enough?
i thought it would be good to know.
what does that mean?
do not shoot me, I am friendly.  you can use that when you surrender.
how do you say "come here, baby.  I am horny."  i can use that now.
do not even try it.  you offend a woman out here you are in serious trouble.
do not worry about jaeger.  he uses his personality as a form of birth control.
blow me.  have i said that to you guys recently?  blow me.
what is this?
now you need me.
what is it?  you know so much about arabland tell me what it is.
well, based on my knowledge of the region, its culture and her people i would have to say it is a box.
can you eat it?  if you can not eat it i really do not care what it is.
he says it is a box.
yeah, you are funny.
it is a puzzle box.  if you can figure out how to open it there is supposed to be a treasure inside.
for real?  a treasure?
oh, man, you are not going to fall for that.
there might be something in there.
yeah, the deed to the brooklyn bridge.
there might be.
and you are the guy who is going to open it.
i could.
you get it yet?
naw, nothing.
you will.  you will get it.
I will show epps.  he will be sorry when i get this thing open.
you really think there is a treasure inside?
i do not care if there is a lump of coal in here.  i just want to be able to rub epps' face in it when i crack this thing.
jaeger?
what?
you know the fifteenth is the deadline for the iraqis to get out of kuwait.
yeah.  so?
that is in two days.
like i said; so?
they are cancelling all leaves, all passes.  no more drills.  we stand at full ready starting--
what is your point, wes?  you have a point?
we are going to war, are not we.  if they are doing all that it must mean we are going to war.
it does not mean anything.
why would they do all that if we weren't?
jaeger?
what!?
you ever think about dying?
come on, man.  i almost had this thing open.
you ever think about it?  you ever worry?
the only thing i worry about is how much iraqi ass I am going to be able to kick before this whole thing is over.  the only people who I have got anything to worry about are the poor, dumb camel jockeys who do not know enough to get out of the way when i come rolling at them; an m-16 in each hand, and a grenade between my teeth.  now if you will excuse me, soldier, I would like to get back to my box.  I have got a treasure to find.
at-at-at-at-at.
this is so weird.  it is happening, but it is not.  it is like a tv show, and we are part of it.
at-at-at-at-at.
this is stupid.  it is going on a month now.  how long are they going to let the air force piss on those bastards?  they can bomb them all they want, saddam am not going anywhere without a ground assault. what the hell is the army waiting for?
why you in such a hurry to get to shooting?
I have got to have something to tell people when i get home besides i protected a stretch of dirt that nobody wanted for nothing in the first place.
the longer the air force hits the iraqis, the safer it'ii be for us when we have to engage.
you know what, wes?  if you get a note from your mommy they might excuse you from the war.
you all want to lay off?  god.  i hope the iraqis shoot me; put me out of my misery.
oh my god!
what!?  what!?
i did it!  i got the box open.
it's...it's...i do not know what it is.
it is a container.  break the seal.
paper.
it is a fortune box.
what is it say?
help, I am being held prisoner in a puzzle box factory.
it is a map, i think that is what it is.
there you go, jaeger.  just find the buried treasure, and you are a millionaire.
you think?
yeah, that is exactly what i think.  you and the five thousand other suckers who bought those boxes.  let's get out of here.  we got sand to protect.
woods.
hey, jaeger.  what is up.
I am looking for a favor.  i need a map of iraqi.
a map?  all i got is maps.  I am going to have delayed map syndrome when i finally get out of here.  what kind of map you need?  topographical, geographical, thermal?
that should not be too hard to read.  iraq is the pink thing.
i could use some recon photos too.
planning on going to war all by your lonesome?
just...want to be ready when we do.
ready for what?  sight-seeing?
the photos.
some good ones.
they are all good ones.  satellites we have got can snap a shot of the boil on saddam's ass.
saddam's got a boil on his ass?
they finally start the ground war, and where are we?  same place we have been since we got here.  securing freedom for the dirt.
everybody's got a job to do.  figure it this way:  at least you get to go home alive.
I would like to go home alive with a couple of iraqi scalps hanging from my belt.
that is it.  it is over.  eighteen hours into the war and it is over.
those soldiers have got loafers on.  what kind of army gives their soldiers loafers?
a casual one.
damn, this is sweet.  we are going to be home in no time.
better grab up some sand to take home to your family.
we...we could go home with something else.
what?
with...with millions.  millions of dollars.
do not even.  you are not going to show me that tired map.
wait.  wait.
i think you have got some issues to deal with.  really, when we get out of here I am pretty sure it is shrink time for you.
just listen to me!  I have been doing some reading.  in the sixteenth century this region was invaded by the turks.  it became part of the ottoman empire.  when the turks rolled in they raped, they pillaged, the usual stuff.  anybody who had anything wanted to hide it from these bastards.  they buried their treasures, drew maps, and hid the maps in puzzle boxes.  i read about this, man.  i read about it.
wellllll, if you read it it must be true. was it in the star, or the enquirer?
christ!  wes, tell him.  you know this stuff.
and you know what that area is?  it is iraq.  iraq!  we are doing a little thing with them right now; desert storm.  maybe you have read about it.
what we are doing is kicking ass.  for god's sake they got iraqis surrendering to news crews.  the war is over.  we have just got to keep shooting people 'cause the army spent all this money, and we have got to put on a show for the taxpayers.
you are not saying what i think you are saying.  i can not believe you are even thinking it.
it is right here.  this region; an-nagaf. i got recon photos.  there are no troops there, no fighting--
you do not know where the iraqis have moved to.  and our forces have not even engaged the republican guard yet, we do not know--
it is about a hundred miles from where we are now.  how long do you think it would take us to--
it is not a hundred miles.  it is a hundred miles through three different kinds of terrain:  pure desert, mountains, a river.  if the map is even real.
it is real.  I am telling you, it is real.
so you just want to cross into hostile territory in the middle of a war on a wild goose chase?  it is crazy.  tell him it is crazy, epps.
you are out of your minds, you know that? both of you.  you do not even know if there is anything out there.  what the hell are you thinking?
I am thinking about when this war is over. why you figure I am here?  'cause i got tired of being president of gm?  if a brother does not play ball, or deal drugs there are not too many big money prospects around, and I am not particularly interested in spending the rest of my life fighting the oil companies' wars. so i say if maybe there is something out there, what the hell, that is what i say.
it is war.  people get lost all the time in war, cut off--
we disappear for awhile.  we disappear, we came back; nobody knows nothing.
but we all got to be in for this.  we all go, or we do nothing.
epps, you are smarter than this.  jaeger i understand, but you are smarter.
you know it is real.  you know it is real, and you know it is there.  you know it.
you are insane if you think you will find anything, and sure insane if you think you can get us there and back alive.
god!  i do not believe I am doing this.  i don't.
yes!
it is going to be cool, wes.  it is all all right.
we go, we get rich, we go home.  it is that easy.
now this is war.
roger that.
we are going to get court martialed, you know that.
hell, we will just buy our way out.
yeah!  welcome to beautiful iraq.  land of enchantment and riches.
oh, god.
you are such a pussy, you know that? how did you get in the army?
cool it, jaeger.  hey, wes?  wes?
what?
i know you think this is crazy, but a couple of hours from now you are going to be one rich dude trying to buy up every other puzzle box out there.
I would settle for being alive.  really. alive would be fine.
epps, is that a sand dune.
oh, no.
why, yes, jaeger.  i believe it is.
no, please, not again.
hey, wes, what kind of treasure you figure these people buried?
if!  if there is a treasure.
yeah.  if.  whatever.  what kind you figure it is?
i do not know.  it would be small, easy to transport and hide.  gold or jewels. probably gold.
yeah!  gold!  how much?
how the hell should i know how much?
but that is the great thing about gold.  a little goes a long way.
you know what I am doing with my part of the gold?
if there is gold.  if!
you know what I am doing with my half?
third.  what you are going to do with your third.
yeah.  i meant... you know what I am going to do with it?  I am going to buy a sixty- three 'vette stingray.  all tricked out and cherry.  I am going to be so sweet.
a car?  you are going to buy a car?
this is too much.  you do not even have the money and you are wasting it.
a car is not just a car where i come from.  i had this friend, had this wicked candy apple red sixty-four and a half mustang--
you are getting gold, and you are going to blow it on wheels?
what are you going to do with your third?
invest it.
oh, that is fun.
it is not about being fun.  it is about being smart.  you take that money, you take care of it, let it grow, and you do not ever have to do anything again. ever.  that is freedom.  that is what I am talking about.
and I am talking about enjoying myself.
you know, you sound just like a boy who is never--
take the binoculars.
wh-what do you think--
take the goddamn binoculars!
iraqis.
oh, god!
two vehicles.  they are not supposed to be here.
oh, jesus!
they are not...i had the pictures. they are not supposed to be here!
shut up!  both of you shut the hell up!
we have got to do something.  we have got to turn around.
we can see them, they can see us.  we run, they chase.
what are we going to do!?
we are going to keep driving.
they will shoot us!
we run they will shoot us anyway.  if we keep driving they might think we friendlies; iraqis.  or even if they know we are americans they might get scared, think we are part of a detachment and keep on going.
they are not going to--
it is the only way.  we drive!
yeah!  yeah!
i think I am going to throw up.  i am. I am going to toss.
you see that?  right by us.  they went right by.  you had them epps; you called it.
figure they do not want to mess with us anymore than we want to mess with them.
look at you, not even breaking a sweat. you are cool, boy.  you are cool.
they stopped.
wha...
oh, jesus, they have stopped.
steady it out!
i steady it out, they blow us out of the sand!
i thought we were dead.
yeah, well, we are not.
we got to get out of here.
we have to go back.
we are not going anywhere.  not 'til we get what we came for.
we just about got killed.  you know what happened?  we just about got killed, and you want to go on?
they should not have been here.
we should not have been here, epps.  there is a war going on!
this is miles from the battle lines. they were probably deserters.
deserters would have run, they would not have engaged.
they should not have been out this way, that is all I am saying.
she okay?
yeah.  yeah, she is fine.
let's go.
what?
I am just thinking, you know, if the rest of the boys knew what we are doing.  i mean if they knew what we were coming back with.
you can not tell anybody about this.
i know.  i know.  but I am saying, if they knew.  we are going to be millionaires, man.  millionaires!
it would make their heads explode.
millionaires, man.
what are you doing.
low on gas.  got to refill.
look at it.  look at it!  shot to hell. it is been leaking gas since the fire fight.  i told you to check for damage.
...i know.
and you missed this?  how are you going to miss something like this?
i did not miss it.  i figured if you knew one of the reserves got hit you would want to turn back.
so, you just let us drive on knowing we were losing fuel?  knowing we were going to run low in the middle of nowhere?
...i figured...i figured you would turn back.
you two fighting's not going to get us anything.
him getting us stranded out here does not do much good either.
we are not stranded.  we have got enough gas in the other reserve to get us back.
then lets go back while we still can.
as soon as we hit the mountain we would have had to go on foot anyway.  we are not that far.  we can make it.
what do we do with the humvee?
we leave it.
you two do not even know how crazy you are.  you want to go on your sick, little treasure hunt then go ahead, but mark me absent.
you have to go with us, wes.
really?  what is that, an order, private?
you have to go with us.  you can not walk back...
say it!
i got that...sir.
hey...hey!  slow up.  you do not have to go so fast.
faster we get there, faster we get back.
yeah.  i know.  I am with you.
I am gonna...i'm just going to stop for a little water.
do not drink up all of yours, 'cause you are not getting any of ours.
I am just going to have a little sip, that is all.  just a sip.
maybe we are crazy for doing this.  but if we do it, we do it right.  i just needed to explain that in a way i would not have to do it again.
not much chance of that.  jaeger's an idiot.
he is not so--
he is an idiot, and he is not nearly as hard as he thinks.
how tough you have to be to make the army?  all you have got to do is shoot a gun, and stop a bullet.
what!?
mine.
what?
mine.  land mine!
you did not step on any mine.
i heard it click.
if you stepped on a mine you would be dead by now.  nobody uses delayed-fuse mines anymore.
i heard it.
oh, god!  oh god!
just be cool.
it is a mine, is not it?
just relax.
how'm i going to relax standing on a mine!?
we are going to get off, all right.  we will get you off of there.  just...be cool.
where you going?
me and wes are just going to talk.
why you got to move away to talk!?
we are going to be right over here.
you are moving away because it is going to blow up, is not it!?  it is going to blow up!
i said be cool, all right?  now be cool!
what kind of mine?
i do not know, and i was not about to mess with it.
should have blown already.  delayed fuse, that is vietnam stuff.
maybe that is all the iraqis could afford, okay?  maybe they got it on discount. maybe the fuse is messed up.  or maybe it is going to go off in two seconds, and we will not have to worry about getting jaeger down off there, all we will have to worry about is finding the pieces.
epps...
does not matter.  we are not going to be able to get him off it anyway.
there is a way.
epps...
i said nobody dies.  nobody dies.
epps, my leg is falling asleep.
we have got rope?
for climbing.
break it out.
my leg is falling asleep.
it is not falling asleep.  you have only been standing there for three minutes.
I am the one who can feel my leg, and it is falling asleep.
it falls asleep and you die, so wake it the hell up.
how is this going to work?
me and wes each going take an end of the rope, run our asses of, and yank you off the mine.
that is going to do it, right?  I am going to be okay.
you are going to be fine.
you are not going to let me die, are you!? do not let me die!
when we start running suck up your breath.  you are going to get the wind knocked out of you.
do not let me die, epps.  i do not want to die.
what if it is a valloro 69?  just going to bounce right up out of the ground, explode in the air, kill him and us.
you just go when i say go.
should have at least gotten the map off of him.  blows up with him then we did all this for nothing.
ready?
yeah.
how long we going to keep this up.
until we are out of the mine field is how long.
have not found a mine for half a mile, or more.
that do not mean nothing.  iraqis could have just spread them out like that; make us think we are in the clear.
you want to crawl, crawl.
you are going to blow yourselves up.
wes is right.  if there were any more mines we would have found them.  hell, that one you stepped on was probably old anyway; left over from the war with iran.
you do not know that.  it could be a trick.
if we step on a mine we will know it was. let me see the maps.
this.  whatever it is.
it is the treasure, that is what it is.
you are not losing trust, are you?
just figure it is my map, i ought to hang on to it.
if all we wanted was the map out of you we could have taken it while you were standing on that mine pissing on yourself.
probably would have too if epps was not around to stop you.
i did not have to stop anything, 'cause nobody was going to do nothing.  we are in this together, understand?
yeah, i understand.  wes does not want to come along in the first place, but he gets a third of the find.  that is a sweet deal.
I am getting tired of you riding me, jaeger.
anytime you want to do something about it just let--
i do not hear any--
shut up and listen!
don't!
it is a fire fight.
single shots does not mean a fire fight. that is not a battle going on.
iraqis.  a bunch of them.
what are they doing here?
well, it is iraq.  I am not sure, but I am guessing that has something to do with them being here.
what are they doing in the middle of nowhere?
jesus!  what the hell did he do that for? they are iraqis.  why are iraqis killing iraqis?
those people down there are shi'ites. you have got shi'ites in the south of iraq and khurds in the north.  neither of them've got much love for saddam. probably figured once the war started there might be an uprising, so he sent his soldiers out to slap them around some.
they are doing more than slapping.
the shi'ites are on our side?  i did not know that.
is there anything you do know?
i know you are a pussy.  i know that.
all right.  let's get out of here.
the soldiers are going to kill those people!
so?
we have to do something.
there is nothing we can do.
we can fight.  that is what we are here for:  to fight the iraqis.  to help the shi'ites, and the khurds.
not enough.  we are out numbered and out gunned.  they would cut us to shreds.
so good bye, shi'ites.  thanks for playing.  we have some lovely parting gifts for you as you go.
we are american soldiers.  we do not abandon people.
funny you should say that while we are out looking for gold.
you are the one wanted to kill iraqis so bad.
I have got a new agenda now, it is get rich. the only way the iraqis figure into that is not at all.
i do not want to see people killed any more than you.  but we try to help out we die, and all we do is die.
we can not just go off and--
there is nothing we can do.  we should not even be here in the first place.
all we have got to do is make it to the top.
and find the treasure, and get it, and get back to the humvee, and get the hell out of iraqi without getting our heads blown off, but that is about it.
we are not going to find anything standing here.  let's get to climbing.
not much of a pass.
probably was a couple of hundred years ago when whoever drew the map came through here.  worn down to nothing now.
picks up again just on the other side.
think we can make it?
we make it, or we go back empty handed.
the us army:  always an adventure.
let me see the map.
should be easy going from here.  stay on the pass straight to the dot.
what do you figure it to be?
got to be some kind of landmark; something distinctive.
x marks the spot.
something like that.
but the white dot in the middle; that is got to mean something.
i hope it means something, otherwise...
otherwise whatever we are looking for could be anywhere.
basically.  but the map has been pretty precise so far.  i do not think it will be too hard to--
where did they go?
i do not know.  there is a lot of space up here.  they could be just about--
weird they did not chase us.
maybe they are as scared of us as we are of them.
just seems weird they did not chase us.
where is it?  where did it go?
stay low.
where the hell is it!?
just stay down.
what are we going to do?  what the hell are we going to do?
we are not going to do anything.
they are going to kill us!
they can not shoot us in here.
and they can not fly around out there forever.
so we wait.
if they land--
if they land, we can take them.  if they do not land, then we have got nothing to worry about.
missile!
move!
what do you think?
lines up with the map and the photos.
it is got a bottom.
guess we know what the next stop is.
all right.  let's break out some utility shovels, lanterns, and a claymore in case we have to do any blasting.  me and jaeger'll climb down, and see what we can see.
what am i supposed to do?
got to have someone here in case we need help making it back up.  does not hurt to have a look out either.
think there might be more iraqis?
right now i would not be surprised if eartha kitt showed up singing send in the clowns.
you down?
yeah, we are down.
what do you see?
a whole lot of nothing.
so where do we start?
epps!
i heard!
what are you doing?
what does it look like I am doing?
it looks like you are not doing anything.
I am not.  and I am not doing anything, because there is nothing down here.
get up and dig.
we have been digging.  we have been digging for hours.  if there was anything here to find we would have found it.
get up off your ass and dig!
must be a compartment.
i feel air.  probably opens up outside somewhere.  that is where the light comes from.  could not see it with the lanternon.
maybe we should blast it loose with the claymore.
it is giving.
it is just a mongoose.
is it dead?
yeah, bwana, you got it.
what the hell are you doing!?
i think we found something.
it is not like i figured.  it is cold.  and it is heavier than i imagined.
i would not know.  i never imagined this. not in my whole life did i ever imagine this.
you do not have to imagine it.  not anymore.  now all you have got to think up is what it is going to buy you.
i do not think the line will take the weight of a man and the coins.  wes!?  we will send the gold up, then me and jaeger'll climb back.
ready when you are.
wait.
what?
what?
we send the gold up what is to stop him from taking off and leaving us down here?
he is not going to leave us.
what is to stop him if he wanted to?  all he has to do is cut the line...
you ready?
all right.  I will go up, then you send up the gold and--
why do i have to stay down here?
jesus, jaeger.
i do not see how that plan's any better.
someone is got to send the gold up.  it can not get on the line by itself.
all right.  you go up, I will send up the gold, then follow.
yeah.  yeah, that will work.
what the hell took so long.
just had to get the pack unhooked from the line.  it did not seem that long.
not when you are up here with the gold, i guess not.
it will be too dark to make our way back now.  let's bed down for the night and head out at first light.
what about the gold?
what about it?
maybe we should split it up now.
we started this together, and we are staying together, so there is no point in splitting things up now.
what if we get separated?  way i see it if something happens i want to be carrying my share.
wes might be right about that.
it stays as it is.  we are halfway home now.  let's not blow it by people getting ideas.
you are the one with all the ideas.
you have had your say, wes.  now leave it.
maybe you have got ideas of your own for the gold.  maybe you have already got things worked out.
maybe i do.
maybe i do not need your ideas.  maybe i can do better on my own.
you got no reason to do that!
i told you:  when i straighten someone out they stay straightened.  this is how it works:  nobody touches the gold. except when we are on the move and someone is carrying it, nobody so much as opens the pack to get an eyeful of it. agreed?
you got no reason to hit me.  I am getting tired of you and jaeger pushing me around.
then get up and do something about it.
get off him.
he snuck in here thinking we were asleep, only i was not sleeping.  would have slit our throats if i had not stopped him.
get off him!
what happened?
i told you.  he tried to steal our gold. he tried to kill us.
with what?  he does not have a weapon.
he is a soldier.  he does not need a weapon.  he is got rocks.  he is got bare hands.
stop it!
i told you; do not push me around.
says he is one of the soldiers that was in the helicopter.
he lived through that?
says they were deserters, they were afraid to fight, do not believe in saddam anyway.  they flew the gunship up here to hide out.  when they saw us they figured we were going to kill them, so they shot first.
why did he come in our camp.
says he wanted food.  liar.  he wanted the gold.
how is he going to want the gold?  he could not even know we had it.
he...he could have been watching us.
maybe we should give him some water.
all last night he could have been--
i think he wants something to drink.
I am not wasting my water on him.
i do not care what he says, he wanted our gold.  would have slit our throats if he had the chance.
does not matter.  whatever he wanted he did not get it.  we have got no need staying around here.  it is light enough.  let's pack up and head out.
we can not just leave him.  he will run back to his outfit, report our position...
you said he was a deserter.
that is what he says.  he could be a spy, or something.
you do not know that.
you do not know he isn't.
so we will take him with us.  at least 'til we get back to the hummer.
he would just slow us down, and drink our water.  and if we ran into any more iraqis you know he would sell us out.
you are out of your mind.
he is an enemy soldier.
I am not going to let you kill him.
we are at war.
we are not at war!  you and i and jaeger are awol.  we have no authority--
he tried to kill us.  if not just now, then in the helicopter.  that is all the authority i need.
I am not going to leave him be just so he can stab us in the backs the minute we turn around.  i have been through too much to lose it all now just because the two of you do not have the stomach to do what has to be done.
I have got no stomach for murder.
it is a combat action.
it is murder, and i will not be any part of it.
then step aside.
no.
get out of my way.
maybe we ought to...you know, bury him. say some words over him.
you want to say some words?
we should head northeast.
northeast?  that is away from the hummer; further into iraqi.
there is another pass on the photo.  we can avoid that narrow one we had to cross on the way up, and it should get us back down.
it should, or it will?  least going back the way we came we know what we are up against.
you think you can make that pass weighted down when you almost fell the first time you are wrong, and you are not going to take my share of the gold with you trying it.  we are heading northeast.
you have got an awful lot of orders in you. always giving orders.
i out rank you, that is why.
in the service you do, but we are not particularly in the service right now. way i see it, what we are doing, that does not particularly give you the right to toss orders around.
we been down this road.  i told you how it is.  unless you feel like there is something you want to do about it...
what if i do?
you are going to burn up in those.
the white reflects the sun; it keeps you cooler.  that is why they wear them.
think the iraqi's killed them all?
probably shot a few.  scattered the rest. murderers.
what are we going to do?  how are we going to find our way back!?
we will find our way.
how!?
we will find our way!  we'll...
no navicom.  a lot of good you are now, epps.
lot of good you were when i was sinking in the sand.
without that navicam looks to me like you forfeit the right to be in charge.
and let me guess who is.
I am the one's got the big stick.
suppose i do not go for that?
then i suppose it would be insurrection, and i suppose I would have to kill you.  i suppose.
what about jaeger?
nothing about him, unless he is got a problem about me dealing with you.
we got to go back.  we got to go back for wes.
forget wes.
we can not just leave him.
wes is dead!
what if he is not?
then he will be when those iraqis get to him.  he was going to kill you.  he was one blink away from it.  he is dead, epps, and I am sure as hell not getting my head blow off over his carcass.
no.
we need something:  a flare, a signal mirror.
no.
what do you mean no?  they can fly us home.
they will ask questions; want to know why we were out here.
we will lie.
they will search the pack.
first wes, now you?
I am not like wes.  wes was crazy.
and you; you have got it all together.
i do not want it this way.  i would not kill you just to kill you, but i can not let you lose the gold for me.  not when we are so close.
that helicopter passes, and the only thing we are close to is death.
I am sorry about that, epps.
is it all right if i stand up?
I am glad i did not have to kill you.  I am glad it did not come to that.
yeah.  well, me too.
i never killed anybody before.  i talk a good game, but I am not like that.
sure.
really, I am not.  remember how i was talking i wanted to blow away all those iraqis?  that is all it was was talk.  i was scared out of my mind to go to war. i still have not gotten over stepping on that land mine.
you still got a map on you?
what?  yeah.
epps?
yeah.
i do not want to die.
makes two of us.
i know what i did just now was crazy, but you got to understand how much i want that gold.
it is all right.  i do not like it, but it is over now.
i never had anything before, epps.  i never was anybody.  not the kind of somebody you can be with a pocket full of gold coins.  when i was in high school i used to--
sorry.
damn.
what do you think our chances are?
if we can find the hummer, or some friendlies by sundown we might be okay. we have got enough water for that.  but we will not make another day otherwise.
wonder how the war's going?
it is got to be going better than this..
we can not just sit here.  we have got to start moving, so pick.
you sure you want me too?
i pick that way.
okay.  then we go this way.
getting cold.
it is a desert.  that is what deserts do at night; they get cold.
epps...epps!  I am going to stop for a second.
no!
just let me rest for a second.
we have got to keep moving while there is still light.
you know what I am going to do?  I am just going to take a second.  i want to look at the gold.
do not you touch it.
i just want to look at it.  remind me of what I am dying for.
the deal was no one touches it until we get out of here.
yeah, but we made that deal while wes was still alive.  he is gone.  time for a new deal.
what do you figure it is?
place all alone like that?  must be a boarder check point.
which boarder?  saudi?  kuwait?  syria?
could not be syria.  we could not have gone that far north.  it is got to be saudi. come on.
we can head back for our lines, and they do not even have to know about the gold.
epps.  what if they are not saudi.
well?
well, we should identify ourselves.
yeah, i guess we should.
even if they are iraqis probably all they will do is take us prisoner for awhile.  got to figure we are still kicking their asses in the war.  they do not want any trouble.
hell, they will probably just surrender to us.  probably.
that is if the war is even still going on. way things were shaping up it is probably long over.
probably.
what did you say?
i do not know.  something wes had taught me.  i think it means "don't shoot. we are your friends."
they must be saudis.  it is a saudi checkpoint.  oh sweet, jesus.  come on. come on!
oh, god...
they must have thought we were iraqi when you yelled to them.  they could not tell in the dark.
what are we going to do?
slip out your m-16.
and then what?
and then shoot them.
i...i never killed anyone before.  i told you that.
well, you are going to start with a bang, 'cause you have got four of them to take down.
can not you--
i do not have a weapon.
do not go bitch on me now!  you were going to kill me.  kill them!
i just said i would.  i do not think i--
shoot them!
an iraqi?
i do not know.  he did not have a uniform on.  he...he had on white robes, like the guys who killed wes.
what do we do?
we can not stay here.  even if that was not an iraqi soldier it is only a matter of time before some show up.  get all the water you can carry, and we will head out on foot.
to where?
sun rises in the east.  we go the opposite direction.  may not find anything, but at least we will know we are heading towards saudi arabia.
what do we do?
we keep going, that is what we do.  we ignore them, maybe they ignore us.
what do you make of them?
shi'ites, i think.
is that good, or bad?
i do not know.  they killed wes.
why have not they killed us!?
i do not know!
...maybe...maybe we can fight our way out.
with what?  against how many?
we can not just sit here waiting to die.
you come up with a better plan, let me know.
maybe...maybe if we traded them the gold. if we gave it to them they might let us live; they might not kill us.
...wes...?
you were shot.  we were standing right there, you were shot!
in the flack jacket.  still like getting hit in the back with a baseball bat. took the air right out of me, but i was just unconscious for awhile.  'course, you did not stick around to find that out. you left me for dead.
we thought--
when my shi'ite friends saw that they had shot an american they were very apologetic.  turns out we have been kicking ass in this little war.  they figure we have finally gotten saddam off their backs.  they brought me to their camp, cleaned me up, fed me... I am their new best buddy.  america number one, joe. but there is something the shi'ites can not figure out:  they can not figure out why my two buddies, two fellow americans, left me out in the desert.  they can not seem to figure out what those same two guys were doing in an iraqi outpost.  it is almost as if they were iraqi spies, or something.  and I have got to tell you they hate anything that is got to do with the iraqis.  see how i mean?
we had to take shelter in the checkpoint. jesus, wes, i killed the iraqis in there.
you actually got around to killing someone.  I am impressed.  i guess you are only half a bitch.
wes, we thought you were dead, and we thought we were next.  hanging around to get killed would not have done anyone any good.
sure, and i guess it was just convenient there was one less person to split the gold with.
wes--
look, i know you guys are telling the truth.  it is just the shi'ites do not know that.  i guess you could tell them...but then you do not speak the language do you?
thanks for taking care of this for me.
tell me something, wes.  are you crazy, greedy, or just stupid?  jaeger says you are crazy.
i did not say that.  i never said--
me?  i say you do not have enough brains to be stupid.
you disappoint me, epps.  always figured you to be a man; a real bright guy.  i had respect for you.
that why you tried to put a bullet in my head in the middle of the desert.
that is just what things came to. sometimes you can not help that.  it does not change me respecting you.  and now you let me down.  i expected more from you, you know?  i really did.  i expected you to--
they will kill you.  you will not make it ten feet before they cut you down.
you do not know john epps very well, do you?
can you ride a horse?
no, but i figure now's a real good time to start.
just keep quiet.
i have to answer him.
so you can give us away?
if i do not answer, he will know something is up.
which way do we go!?
we go this way.
give it to me!
if i give it to you, will you let us go?
looks like at the end of the day we finally find out who is better than who, do not we, epps?  like i said; i expected more from you.
it is like i said; you do not really know lieutenant john epps very well, do you?
damn it.  we lost the horses.
the...the gold...
it was not the gold.  it was the claymore mine.  the gold's in my pack.
when did you make the switch?
it is always been like that.  when you left me down in the crevice to send the gold up i figured I would better...take precautions.  i rigged it to blow if anyone opened the pack.  just in case somebody thought they could do better on their own.
but...
we had a deal.  no one touches the gold until we are out of here.  no one breaks the deal, no one had anything to worry about.
what if it had not been wes?  what if...i mean, accidently, what if i had...
you should not think about things like that.  it will just make you crazy.
well?
a car's got to come along sooner or later.  when it does, we jack it.
how do we do that?
you lie in the middle of the road, look like you are hurt.  when the car stops i run over to the driver and put a gun to his head.
why do i have to lie in the road?
somebody has to.
yeah, but why me?  what if the car does not stop?
then I am a rich man.
epps.
yeah.
i want you to know... i do not know.  i just think you are a hell of a guy.
thanks.
this whole time, you have kept your head. you did not go money simple like me and wes.  you have just been trying to figure how to get us out of here.  and you have been fair too.  i mean, even after i...you know...
threatened to blow my brains out?
yeah.  even after that.  you did not take it out on me, except for maybe making me lie in the middle of the road now.  but I would say you have been very fair.  i just think it is a hell of a man who can keep from going money simple.
do not make so much out of it.  only reason i have not figured a way to get all that money for myself is because I have been too busy figuring ways to stay alive.  believe me; if i had a minute to catch my breath i might have played things the way you and wes had.  I am no better than anybody else.  I have just been busier.
epps?
what?
I am thinking about taking a trip.
thought you were going to buy a car.
still am.  there is more gold than i thought, and since there is only two of us now...  where should i go?
i do not know.
I have never been anywhere.  i would not know where to go.  where would you go?
how the hell should i know?
australia.
what?
I would go to australia.  lot of land, not many people.  i think after this I would like to quit people for awhile.  and the girls go crazy for brothers down there.
really?
that is what i hear.  do not matter.  girls go crazy everywhere for a man with gold.
well, this is it.  we get the car, find some americans.  we find americans we will be all right.
we will make up some kind of lie.  they will not find the gold.
epps, i do not think he is slowing down.
he will slow down.
he is not slowing.
he is going to slow down.
you speak english?  do you speak english!?
y-yes.
where were you going?
baghdad.
what is in the other direction?
this road, it leads straight to kuwait.
turn the car around.
please, i beg of you.  the american army is there.  i am iraqi.  they will kill me.
nobody's going to hurt you.
