my mind plays tricks on me. is it okay if i take a bath now?
everyone is gone. rhonda is in the bathroom.
babe brother and his wife are taking advantage of a situation. i hate to be mean to people but picking sunny up when they feel like it has to come to an end. now I am going to ask him how come he could not be at your birthday.
do not bother the poor boy. it just takes some people a little longer to figure out who they are.
i do not know how two brothers can be so different.
you know it is against the city ordinance to keep chickens or live stock.
i always had chickens, ducks and whatnots.
not anymore, not in the city.
we grow most of our own food. the money i get from social security, my pension and my wife's work, keeps us living on the edge. what choice do people like us have.
well, you just have to move further out.
now how far would further out be?
I am not here to argue, sir.
who is it?
babe brother.
i was hoping you came to the door instead of him. it gets cold at night.
this does not make any sense; you are going to drag that poor boy out in the cold air.
he will be alright.
what time is it? do you think you can just treat us like your slave? it is after one.
i tried to call to let you know i was going to be late.
that is a lie.
let us settle this tomorrow.
look! do not try to get ahead by riding our backs.
i pay my own way.
since when?
your feet are cold.
go back to sleep.
i asked you to wake me when babe brother comes.
you all act like two roosters.
I am not going to let him get away with murder.
you and babe brother are so much alike...
he am not nothing like me. how come a man has to have sons that are day and night apart? you ought to stop protecting him.
hush.
you are always taking his side.
hush.
I am trying to make him a man but you keep babying him.
you are going to find yourself on the floor.
because you were spoiled, do not try to spoil sunny.
my daddy never gave me anything without my having to sweat for it. every summer, the way they kept me and junior out of trouble was to send us to big daddy's farm. we would get up with the chickens. every summer the fence had to be repaired. the barn needed a coat of paint. we had to pip all of big mama's hundred laying hens and go to church all day on sunday. for big daddy, calluses and sweat were the mark of a man. sunny will never have to bust his knuckles like we did.
i want sunny to have an advantage that you and i never had, but he needs discipline, and you are not helping when i tell him to do something and you allow him to get out of it.
what is a sip of coffee going to do?
coffee is bad for anybody, especially for a child.
i do not see you crying about my drinking it.
how old are you?
how are you?
tolerably well. i brought you some more rabbit manure for your roses.
it is so considerate of you.
i did not mean for you to pay me for that.
i know you did not but you have been so thoughtful.
but when your sunflowers come up, I will pay you for them.
i planted a row just for you and you do not owe me anything.
when are you going to find time to help me fix the roof?
you all do not believe me when i tell you I am afraid of heights.
you used that excuse to get out of the army.
you always got something to say.
your mother asked me not to mention it but your mother's birthday was last week.
i had not forgotten. i ordered some cloth but it did not come in and i felt so bad if i would have come to her birthday without that, i just stayed at home.
what did your wife get her?
we got the same thing.
why do not you come in for a while?
i would like to finish reading this. what would i talk about? i have not read this month's almanac. i do not care to hear about how the corn was this fall or how to get rid of gophers by putting garlic in their holes. they pride themselves in making life hard and that is not my cup of tea.
you know, babe brother's wife just dumps greens in the pot without washing them.
babe brother is a poor boy.
this is my grandson, sunny. he is my youngest son's child.
he kind of favors one of my boys when he was about his age.
boy, that is bad luck to touch a fellow with a broom.
he knows better. sunny, apologize to harry.
i came all the way from detroit by bus going to oakland. the bus stopped in los angeles. i had to get off and take a rest. I will catch the last bus leaving at midnight. I am just too tired to go on.
why did not you catch a plane?
my feet have never been on anything that was not directly attached to the ground.
stay until you feel better? i would like to hear all the news.
I am worn out but will not you feel like you are taking in a stranger?
stranger my foot, it was my grandmother who helped you into this world.
well, i do not want to put you out.
man, put your boxes down and stay as long as you like. we have empty rooms since the boys got their own families and moved out.
well if you are sure, i will not be a bother. oh, i do not sleep on no spring mattress. i always make myself a pallet on the floor.
good evening. it must be all the different time zones i crossed that makes me feel this weary.
you should go back and rest.
no, if i rest any longer, i will not sleep tonight. may i use your bathroom to wash up a bit?
man, act like this is your home.
that is awful generous of you. i always ask to keep from wearing out welcome.
one can tell you are from back home. these people nowadays do not know what manners are.
where we come from, you had to know how to act right. you had to know how to say yes sir and no sir. you had to know your place.
those days you could always find something redeeming about even the worst person.
you remember that boy who lost his mind, joe? you could hear him pitching horseshoes at night in the dark. he would not miss a one. make him mad and call yourself running in the house to be safe. he would pick up a brick and say "go on in there brick and hit somebody" and it would find its mark.
i was afraid to go to marcus bottom because of him.
all those places that us coloreds lived, that we used to call bottoms, have all been changed to drives and heights. everything is in what you call it, not in what it is.
it is the boy next door throwing at his birds. I am just waiting on him to hit a pane in the window
I am going to wash up now. you all please excuse me.
good morning.
you ought to come hear our preacher. remember old cat iron? well, our preacher is just as strong.
next time when i feel a little better perhaps.
i was going to get up and get a hen out there for dinner, but time got away.
oh, i would feel much at home if you let me get one for you. i have not wrung a chicken's neck in a month of sundays. you know, folks would call my daddy to kill their hogs. that used to be my trade from time to time.
well, i would appreciate that.
you do not act like the rest of gideon's friends. they believe if you are not hard at work, you are hard at sin.
oh, I am more modern in my ways. i do not believe in sin, though there is good and evil.  and evil is a thing you work at.
not you must not touch. your mama might not like you handling knives.
i think he wants to see your rabbit foot.
i let this rabbit foot do in place of my toby that i lost years ago.
what is a toby?
you do not want to be at crossroads without one. it is a charm that old people teach you how to make. i had one for a long time that belonged to my grandmother who had it ever since she was a child.  in my travels i misplaced it. i have been looking over my shoulder ever since.
i thought you were not old fashioned.
in some things. when we were children, there used to be an old man that came around and would snatch your soul if you did not have something on you that did not make a x.
did you have your child at home?
no. no. no. no. i had my child at cedars and sinai. and that am not no county hospital. you have to have cash or check before you come in the door.
some folks take that natural stuff too far.
junior's wife kept her afterbirth' in the refrigerator. that is why i do not eat over there now.
country people got so many strange ways,
did you ever have to use this thing?
that is called a crab apple switch. it is for those bad acting monkeys and just the thing for a mean dog. now i do not know if i actually did what i did or got my life and story mixed in with other folk's stories but i seem to recall that i had to use my crab apple on a boy from back home. i was up in memphis working on the railroad, like your daddy who had an easy job. he would sing a song that had a cadence and we would lay track. anyway i was coming down beale street and i heard this music coming from a saloon. sure enough it was emory. my daddy taught both of us to play but emory was natural at it. got in a blues band and what not. he and another boy had killed a boy named hocker sometime back and they balled the jack leaving town. emory had lost one eye and had a scar running down his face. bad luck i would say. he got to drinking that corn liquor. we went to his girl's room and he would not stop drinking. he started talking about the old days and he went mad. he pulled his knife and i got to mine first. the lights went out.
do not pick up the cards if you are not in the game. did he die?
i do not know what happened to him. he just ran out into the streets.  i got some old records i want you to hear. i like the blues sung simply, man and a guitar. or sung by a woman who had bad luck all her life. do not ever let anyone tell you his life's story if it is of a weary life full of sadness. when i was a boy, a man told me a story of how he lost all of his sons and I will be damned if the same thing did not happen to me.
how often is your wife called to help delivery?
it was slow. now it seems like everyone is having births at home.
what could have caused this? i just changed this damn thing.
everything these days is made overseas.
you and babe brother hit it off so well.
course, it is your business, but i feel obliged to tell you that maybe you have not been fair with the boy.
i tried to teach him right from wrong just like i did his junior.
everyone has to follow his own plough. a man does not have to know how to cut a wick and clean a chimney nowadays. city people do not give a hoot and a holler about the shape of the moon nowadays. you do not plant old ways...  ... but, at the end, you find yourself doing what your father did but you have to have the land in you.  it is when you want to give the house or farm to the kids and they do not want it. you sell it to a stranger. you worked your whole life, for what?  i doubt if people nowadays have knowledge of a victory garden or seen an inch worm. all what we have experienced has no meaning.
you are suppose to teach your children what you know. junior, i do not have to worry about. babe brother is a different story.
you still call him boy. you call babe brother boy in front of his wife and son.
my daddy called me boy up to the time he died. i was always boy to him.
'course, you could be right. your sons are alive. all my sons are dead.
you would think people never lived in a house if they have to ask what does 1 1/2 baths mean.
will you still get the money from your father?
i told him we might not need it, if you can talk your parents into giving you your share of the property.
pops put big daddy's farm in rhonda's and sunny's name and fixed it so no one can borrow on it.
we could borrow on that land and put the money to work.
i preached to mom and dad about it but they are stuck in their ways, it is like talking to a brick. but if there is a way...
you want me to mortgage my house to invest in a scheme of yours? you know the last time we went into something together daddy had to go in his savings to keep us from ending on the street.
why are you always afraid to get somewhere?
this is not a good time to take chances. your best friend, robert, an accountant, lost his home and is out on the street. we see him from time to time. he comes down to church for a free meal.
this is what it is all about, trying to keep from being out on the street.
robert asks about you. when are you going to do something to help him?
maybe i can get down there next week.
i have someone i want you to meet.
I will be right there.
i could not believe it when suzie called and said you were staying here. how have you been?
girl, do you still sing and dance?
no, I am a different person now, harry.
have not the years been good to hattie?
it has not been the years; it is been the men in her life.
harry, that is not nice. I am in church now.
why run out and close the barn door when the horse is gone? i remember when you were not saved. that was way back yonder when the natchez trace was just a dirt road.
some people grow up and change their ways.
i know your mother am not still operating that house of hers.
my mother passed on years ago.
none of your business.
that is a boy from home, lulla's brother.
harry, you know everything.
you got to know everything, do everything, and be everything.
no, but i might have some indian chief tonic.
i have not heard anyone mention swamp root since button-up shoes went out.
you know the saying, "your heart is in your left hand."
now i was trying to be nice, to make conversation, since we go back some.
i was quoting from the bible. if the shoe fits, wear it.
"out of weariness, i spoke to my own heart; to leave it all and to die. and i gave my heart to know madness and folly."
an empty wagon makes a lot of noise and you, tappy head, you am not worth the salt you put in greens.
speaking of tappy heads, we ought to have an old fashion fish fry.
is this your house?
oh. I am sorry. gideon, what do you say?
well, it is up to suzie.
it would be nice.
in the meantime harry can slaughter us a hog.
i already have, my dear.
a woman in family way just reminds of spring and my younger days.
that is nice.
well, you and your husband are special. ya, gideon tells me you do volunteer work to help feed the poor.
how many people do you all feed?
last saturday we handed out over two hundred meals.
good god almighty, bless your bones.  but the problem grows.
week by week the crowds at the door keeps getting larger. we can not feed all the hungry.
of course not. have you ever heard of a man jumping in the river to save five hundred drowning people? no you ain't.  you have to take just one and fatten him up. when you spread help too thin, you , you just nickel and dime the situation. if you try to save all, all die but if you save one life, life goes on. you just have to remember, medicine that works leaves a bitter taste.
i do not know if we could take one in with rhonda and me at home alone at times.
oh, i was not pointing my finger at you. hey, you have to think of yourself. a lot of them have all kinds of diseases and will cut your throat while you sleep. there are too many bad people out there.
i appreciate you lending me a hand. that lazy ass brother of mine was suppose to help me.
well some folks are still waiting for their comeuppance. do not take me wrong but you can not judge people by how you act. you are a caring person.
he should be caring. that is not too much to ask.
ya, but you can not do the shuffle with one leg. you and your wife, in your spare time, work with the less fortunate. now I am not talking about you and what you do but some folks that always run to help the victim, deep down are attracted to pain and suffering and love to be near the dying.
all the people working with us are really doing it 'cause they hate to see suffering.
you never know what is in the heart and just because you can cry does not make you human.
we can not really bring another family in here with us.
why not? harry says that is the only way to do good.
when did you talk to harry?
do not shout!
what is that?
boy, that is the real south. that is real corn liquor.
there is something that i always wanted to know. tell me, how did those boys die?
now who are we talking about?
miss clara's boy, emory, to start with. the johnson's hocker was another one...
was not hocker lynched?
you know as well as i do that it was made to look like he was lynched. now who would hang someone from a persimmon tree?
what difference does it make if it is persimmon, oak tree or huckleberry bush?
why, you do not want us to bring him over?
no, it is that when do you have time to be parents to him? you guys do not pick him up until nine, ten at night. you are into yourselves, as the saying goes. spend some time trying to be parents. take him to the mountains, fishing. you ought to let him get to know nature.
well, you are his grandfather. he is supposed to spend some time with you. you are supposed to show him those woodsy things and this and that.
junior spends time with his child.
oh here we go with that.
hocker's death almost caused a race riot. a lot of innocent people could have been hurt behind that.
strange as it may seem, it might have cleared the waters. sometimes the right action comes from the wrong reason.
do you want your coat? it is cold out here.
no, I am too hot now.
you better be careful. you will get a stroke arguing.
i would not care if i drop dead if he learn something from it.  son, you make me wish i was dead.
gideon, do not say things like that.
why does he always pick on me?
he is just being like all parents, concerned about the ones they love.
i do not need that kind of love. and i do not want to be reminded all the time that big mama's grandmother was born in slavery. if you really care about me, just tell me how i can make money.
let us go back in before the night of celebration becomes a night of me killing my son.
no. before anyone moves, you two shake hands and do not carry it any further.
i think if anybody had a hand in killing hocker, you ought to ask or you should have asked emory and chick.
chick was outright killed by a mob. he killed a white man that owed him some money and when they caught up with him, they tied him behind a car and dragged him from out of the hills back to town.
those boys never did have good luck.
you damn right they didn't, especially emory, my cousin.
emory had made a lot of enemies. he had a big mouth.
what is the problem here?
she has a fish bone caught in her throat. could all of you go in the other room? gideon, get some bread and toast it quickly and find me the cod liver oil.
I am worn out.
just stay in bed and rest.
i have to feed the chickens before they wake everybody up.
you stay inside. i will see to them.
i will appreciate that.
how is everybody?
tolerable well.
ah, you young folks do not know how it is. how is gideon today?
he was not able to get out of bed today.
i hope that it is nothing serious.
he has never gotten rid of the malaria. he is usually up and at it the next day. I am going to make him fresh chicken broth.
let me earn my keep. I will go out and get a hen and have it picked and ready for the pot. try to make him some cow tea next time.
can you watch gideon for a while? one of the girls is going into labor. junior is going to drive me over.
you just run along. I will fix him his soup. he will be all right.
never play with someone is else's cards. you always get a new deck. look at this card. see anything?
it is just a regular card.
son, i can take everything you got with that deck. it is marked. now I am going to show you how to make some money in case you get stuck somewhere.
does not he look a whole of lot better?
well, you look better than you did yesterday.
boy, i thought you were about to cross the river.
i tell you, i feel like a ghost.
son, would you do me a favor and see if you could turn off that tap in the bathroom. my hand is too weak. and would you do me another favor? i do not like asking this but would you clean the tub for me? i have trouble bending over.
anytime you need someone to do something for you, just let me know.
that smells like fresh coffee.
let me get you a cup?
only if you can spare it.
it is good to be able to hear that.
you must have been really sick.
how is the garden doing?
i need to get out there and get those weeds out.
how is that hen doing? i was meaning to pip her before i fell sick.
he just leeches off your parents. he is a master at wearing out welcome.
harry is the kind of guy you would love to take out in the woods and leave under a rock.
where does her get the power to summon all his old raffish friends? they all smell of moth balls.
linda, how come you do not see that sunny puts his shoes on right?
why in the h...
you okay?
I am okay. go back to your friends.
now you do not have to say anything if you do not want to.
i want to hear what happened. my brother is a jackass and a damn fool. the both of you have been as scarce as hen's teeth.
you should not talk about the boy's father in front of him. this is family business and we have to pull together.
whether the boy hears it or not, the man is still a jackass. everyone should have some mother wit.
i could swear i heard my son call me.
you probably heard the wind stirring up those dead leaves over there.
i heard his voice as clear as day. i better get back. maybe something is wrong.
what are you doing?
counting the gray hairs in your head.
counting the what? what does that have to do with the price of butter?
i was just trying to make conversation.
where is skip?
he is in his pigeon cage.
I am sorry he got those birds.
you know the man next door is near death.
how is he doing?
as long as he keeps his throat clear, he is able to get some rest.
i made a fresh pot of coffee. okra and i thought you need a rest. I will stand guard. okra wants to talk to you anyway.
you know harry lied about how that boy hocker got kilt. and it was harry who saw emory last before they found him hanging over a levee like someone would hang a hog.
i remember harry always trying to help someone. he got lulla's daughter out of trouble. he was always running to the store for someone who could not leave the house.
harry always shows his good side and, like the moon, the other side is black. back home he always did try to act like the colored gentleman. I am telling you harry is nothing but evil. I am warning you -- you can not keep a wild animal as a pet around children.
you know okra asked me to marry him the other evening.
rush your mouth, girl. no, he didn't. he cannot be that big of a damn fool.
i asked harry about it. he did not own up to it. he said he did not know what got into okra.
he is just raffish. harry put him up to it. before evening sun sets, i would have his belongings back on route 55, that old fox.
i can not accuse him just dry long 80.
everybody who have been associated with harry end up with pennies over their eyes.
what must i do?
if it was left up to me, i would poison him.
good afternoon, ladies.
good afternoon to you.
as god is my witness, i have never done anything to that woman.
you must have done something to her.
since she has repented, all she does is throw stones.
hattie is a different person now.
i do not make no bones about where I am going to spend eternity. i have always been wild and you know that. if you are made to feel half a man, what do you think the other half is?
I am glad you brought that up as to who you are. i have to know who is in my house.
you invited me.
only if you are a good man, a friend. are you a friend?
i do not want to wear out welcome, but you can stay in someone is heart longer than you can stay in their house. come with us, boy. we are going to have a good time.
this would be a bad time for me to leave.
we are going where the action is. am not that right, okra?  let's play for a couple of bucks unless you want to start off with two bits and work our way up.  what would you give to be rich?
i need to get my suitcase out of the garage.
what for?
I am going back home with harry.
I have heard some foolish things in my life.
harry is coming to pick me up.
have you lost your mind? have you thought about your wife and child, not to mention your sick father? and i need your help to move his bed from under the leak in the ceiling.
I am busy.
do not make me raise my hand to you. you have to see for yourself that you are going in the wrong direction.
can not i be myself without you jumping in with your right and wrong? the world is not black and white. show me one perfect person. if you can't, do not ask me to be.
i do have a right to ask you to be a little bit better than me and your father because we gave you a better head start. you have no right to complain to us about your not having enough.  you sit right there with your no manners self.
why in the hell did not you help mama?
i told her i would if she would give me time.
i bet you if your master would have told you to fix the hole in the roof, you would have rebuilt the whole damn house.
you always got the best of it around here and when dad always talks about my son, it is always you, so you fix the roof.
that is a damn lie and you know it. every time father asks you to do something, you either half-ass do it or run off and hide. mama asked you to turn the dirt in her garden and you told her, with your smart ass self, that you were not a farmer; get junior to do it. every time someone asks you to do something, you always say, tell junior to do it. boy, you ought to grow up.
i told you about calling me boy. i am not no boy. see, you and dad got a bad habit of calling me boy. you call me boy in front of my wife. you think I am going to fix the roof? i hope the wind blows the whole damn thing off and it pours down rain.
i ought to break your damn neck.
I am leaving and do not even call me when the shoe falls 'cause all he did for me was to try and run my life. I am tired of people saying babe brother this, babe brother that. what is my name?
you dumb ass, it is babe brother.
my name is sam. samuel.
I will drive her to the hospital.
we will take her. you all stay here and watch dad.
what, are you having another party?
you better come sit down. you are still sick.
gal, you are talking to john henry. when was i sick?
since this morning.
what happened to your hand?
i cut it on an old rusty knife.
what did you put on it?
it is healing now.
babe brother, is that my shirt that you are wearing?
yes.
how come you are not wearing my shoes?
they are too big.
i have more sense than to give up everything, my family, you and sunny. it was not me, i mean the real me inside my body. I am glad it is over. it is like a veil has been lifted.
like a veil has been lifted?
it is like I have been swimming in muddy waters.
like muddy waters?
it was like all those things old country people try to tell you what hell is like.
you were in hell?
i could not believe the things i was doing. it was like an internal struggle going on inside my body.
do you think you won?
it was nip and tuck.
and what lesson have we learned from all of this, babe br... sam... i mean samuel?
i guess it proves you really care about me. you hung in there.
when are you boys going to fix that roof?
soon as i rest a bit.  i meant as soon as we are back to normal again, anytime.
here i am thinking about myself when poor harry is resting on the floor of the kitchen.
he is going to check out heaven first. he gets a round trip ticket to heaven. he gets in heaven and finds it just like back home. people dripping with sweat, working in the fields, hardly surviving. he asked a man who was getting a drink of water, "i thought the streets were paved with gold." "they are but you will not see them," he said. "boy, you got to work day and night cause idleness is sinfulness." so he takes the other half of his ticket and takes the express to hell. he sees people stretched out on their backs kicking back, picking their teeth. "man, this is a dream." he asked, "what's you will doing?" they all hollered back, "sinning." the devil was shaking hands with everyone and came up to him and said, "please to meet you." he asked, "i thought you will was supposed to be burning in fire." someone said, "man, am not no fire down here except under that pot of chitlins." the man was going go ask the preacher back on earth...
i do not want to hear any joke about colored people being in hell. you are being irreverent.
I am almost finished. I am about to come to the punch line.
i do not want to hear any tales about colored people...
but these are white people, anybody. the punch...
i do not care to hear any jokes about people being in hell. this cut on my hand reminds me that it is nothing to laugh at.
it is only a tale.
I am cold. i need to get out into the sunlight.
what is it, noontime?
