what do you think it is?
depends who it is from.
your friends at warren, putnam and hudson.
you can learn a lot about somebody from this stuff.  three categories: you like me, you hate me, you want something from me.  definitely third category.
what would a law firm want from the new drug czar?
depends on the state.
arizona.
medicinal marijuana initiative.  or am i being cynical?
what is your name?
javier rodriguez.
well, javier rodriguez, you have done a very good job, but we will take care of it from here.
one question.  how did you find about this?
an informant.
what is the name of your informant?
it was an anonymous tip.
was not that general salazar?
yeah.
what is he doing up here?
i do not know.  something.
no telltales.  nothing to read. not touching my face.  not even blinking.  no giveaways.  how're you feeling?
i feel good.
no more pissant basin league bullshit for us, hunh?
nope.
so, it is worth the wait, right? what can i do?  rent a huey?  have an airlift?  it is not like you can put it in a condom up some mule's asshole, right?  how many peasants would that take?  a line stretching from here to mexico city --
nobody said shit, eduardo --
chill out --
it is a funny fuckin' joke and it is quick.  why do women wear makeup and perfume?
what are you doing?
just watch.
inhale the smoke and hold it.
what is this, like freebase?
not like.  it is.
i just want to be clear about one thing.  i used to work for him, but now i work for you.  I am not a partisan person, I am an issue person. in the next few weeks, if you allow me, we will get you well-versed on an incredible array of issues.  the most important of which, in my opinion, being mexico.  i know everybody that you are going to meet. it is important that they like you. it is not important that they like me.  that is why i can help protect you.
like you protected landry?
i see where you are going with that, but if i could just say something, which is basically that a guy like landry is so autocratic he does not know how to let himself be helped; it is a point of pride to take every bullet, no matter who fired it, or whether it was even aimed at him, which personally i think it very self-defeating.  now, do not get me wrong, he is a man of enormous integrity, but there is a political component to this job that the general just did not have any patience for.
relax.  if they were going to kill us they would have done it in the desert.
they would not do it in front of all these people.  they would send someone later, when we are alone.
even if that were true, they are not going to come to your house where you are waiting for them.
he is right.  they will do it when you are walking somewhere, make it look like street crime.
if you want her to stay out of it, then stop telling her everything. you should learn how to keep a secret.
she is nosy.  she hears me on the telephone.
anyway, i do not think we will ever see them again.  everything's back to normal.
please.  filing a report will not help you find your car.
the police will not find your car.
I will put this in the back.
no --
all the professionals keep them in the trunk.
not tiger woods.
especially tiger woods.  ...actually, he keeps his on the back seat.
my work keeps me young.
which part, getting terrorists loose on bail or freeing convicted murderers on technicalities?
the worst serial killer in history - who?  gacy - right?  killed forty two people.  our government killed fifty thousand in vietnam and lied about it every day.
michael, you represent drug dealers, not civil libertarians.
we kidnapped noriega out of panama. is that covered in your constitution? because it is not in mine.
noriega is a criminal.
noriega was head of a sovereign nation who made the mistake of doing business with the u.s.  government.  so, no, i do not have a problem waking up every day and fighting our government, fighting people like you, trying to keep this system a little bit honest.
last i read your clients were chopping people up with chainsaws and delivering illegal narcotics into this country.
i hope when you were on the bench, judge wakefield, you did not handle the presumption of innocence in the same fashion.
if i ever return to the bench, counselor adler, i hope i have the pleasure of hearing your arguments.
you planning on going somewhere, eduardo?  you do not like it here? this is the best situation you are going to have for a long, long time.
i am a legitimate business.  fishing boats.  tuna.  check it out.  tax records, everything --
listen you motherfucker, you tried to kill me with a fucking cannon.
you can not visit me here.  i want my lawyer.
the amount of coke we got on you means capital punishment in some states.
move 'em to texas, fry 'em up.
we got you on tape making the deal. we got you bragging about the quality. we got you bragging about your business.  we got you.
one chance here, eduardo.  make us believe you got a boss.  no boss, it is all on you.
it is a death sentence.  I will never make it to the trial.
we can protect you.
that is a big word for a fisherman.
who do you work for?
hi.
hi.
what is up?
just watching you.
i got that.  how was your day?
you all right?
i keep feeling like I am forgetting something.
that is your past.  i want to talk about your future.  would you be willing to do something for me?
if i can.
I am trying to bust the tijuana cartel.
what is it you want me to do?
a small thing.  nothing really.
does this offer include my partner?
only if he can be trusted.
he will do what i say.
this is fucking crazy.  instead of killing us, he sends us on a suicide mission.  do you know who frankie flowers is?  he is a psycho-cokehead- hitman.  a faggot.  he is killed fucking who knows how many people. you would need half the force to get close to him.  and you can not get their help because he lives in fucking san diego.
then i guess I am going by myself.
what is it like?  imagine you are being accosted by a swarm of beggars in the heart of calcutta, except the beggars are wearing $1500 suits and they do not say "please" or "thank you."
what about legalizing everything? has anybody talked about that?
fine -- legalization.  okay, forgetting all of our international trade agreements, legalize everything today.  the government inserts itself into all drug transactions.  the u.s. becomes a giant pharmacy.  our borders are mobbed, lines of people from here to europe wanting to smoke, snort and shoot themselves into oblivion.
like a grateful dead concert.
drugs begin pouring out of america into every other country in the world. canada is completely overwhelmed.
what if every country legalized at the same time?
somehow, i do not see that happening.
so you know we put the case before the arbitration panel, none of whom had any expertise.  superfund is just one of those words.  people stop paying attention.
that is frustrating.
it is so frustrating.
did you meet the president?
honey, your father knows the president.
as it happens, the president of the united states, my new boss, the leader of the free world, has me penciled in for some "face time".
will we get invited to the white house?
i do not know.
how long's the job?
it is a presidential appointment so... until i quit or get fired.
czar for life, just like a real czar.
that makes mom the czarina.  I am a czarette.  like anastasia.
none of my friends can fucking believe my dad is the actual drug czar.
caroline --
sorry, but i mean, come on.
helena, I am so sorry --
arnie, thank god.
i understand.  you are upset.  you want to know what is going on.  that is good.
why are you talking like that?
listen to me carefully.  first of all, carl is not here.  dea's got him and they will hang on to him until arraignment, which will probably be tomorrow.  so here you are wasting your time.  are you with me?
good.  from now on i want you to expect that every word you utter will be tape-recorded, that the movement of your lips is being read. got it?
arnie, this is crazy.
got it?  good.  do not discuss anything over the telephone.  do not talk to the neighbors.  stay out of your yard.
what is he being charged with?
i do not know, but under no circumstances would i talk about it here.  i want you to go home and relax the best you can.  continue your life as if nothing has happened. that is very important.
arnie, i feel like alice stepping through the looking glass.
that is a very apt analogy, helena. now, go home and be with your children.
I am curious how you did this with such economy.
everybody has a weakness.
ach, that is what I am talking about. sarcasm.  always fucking sarcasm. you are afraid and you think if you admit it people will think you are weak or will not like you --
we live our lives by these unspoken rules that are handed to us.
what do we do?  okay.  fucked-up bowman's turning blue.  doctor.  we need a doctor.
your dad's a doctor.  call him --
he is a research doctor.  you are dad's a doctor, too --
what kind of research?
mapping the fucking pig genome. we will call your dad, he is a neurosurgeon --
it is three a.m.  I am not supposed to be here.  i snuck out --
are you kidding...  I am staying with you --
he is going to fucking die right here on the kitchen floor --
...how old are you?
sixteen
live with your parents?
yes.
parents still together?
yes.
do you work?
i volunteer.  i read to blind people. one day a week for two hours.
in school?
cincinnati country day.
private?
yeah.
how are your grades?
I am third in my class.
what is that mean?
i get a's.  all a's.
you do?  what else you do?
I am a national merit finalist.  I am on the hi-q team and the math team. I am in the spanish club.  I am a thespian.  I am vice-president of my class.  I am on the volleyball team.
did you tell dad?
not yet.
are you going to?
i do not know.
is this bad for him?
what do you think?
i am on the board of my son's school. i had a fundraiser for a.l.v. in my front yard.  i have a right to know if my husband is a legitimate businessman.
of course he is.  I have known him for twenty years and he does not jaywalk...
they are whispering.  i can not hear them, but i know it.  i smell conspiracy.  i feel the lie vibrating out of the home.
she am not in on it.
i have dreams about this, actual dreams about busting the top people, the rich people, the white people.
I am telling you, she does not know shit.
she knows arnie metzger.
so does half of san diego.
you want to make a wager on this?
if all our assets are frozen and our "sales force" has scattered...  how am i supposed to survive?  I am giving birth in three months.  how do i get through this?
you are going to get through it, but the first thing we do is get michael adler to represent carl.  we get adler and we beat this thing.
how much do i pay him?
i suspect he will accept his payment in publicity.
he did not hang around us.  he is like one of those hippie kids.  I am not part of that group.  it was a party in all these rooms.  his girlfriend who i barely know was completely hysterical... he is blue, he is puking... we did not want to get in trouble, but what were we supposed to do?  i mean, what would you have done if you had been us?
how well do you know this boy, seth, who was driving?  you know the police have charged him with a dui and possession of marijuana.
he is a friend.  he is also like the only one who was dealing with the situation.  he would definitely had a few beers, but it is not like he wanted to drive.  we did not know what else to do.  it was not my pot.
i think she is lying.
me, too.
we will ground her, clip her wings a bit.  school and scheduled activities and that is it until further notice. this has to be handled delicately. dan kelly, in the district attorney's office, will probably help us out, quietly.  christ, this could be embarrassing.
honey, this is difficult, but we have all had our moments.  i tried --
stop.  you experimented in college. i do not want to hear about that.
should we take the quotes off experiment and call it what it is?
this is different.
why?
to begin with, she is only sixteen years-old.
i think she has to find out for herself, on her own.  we have to allow her space --
space for what?  to o.d. like that other kid?  i will not send the message that this type of behavior is okay with her parents.  because it isn't.  correct?
we do not want to push her away. these are growing experiences.
how long have you known?
six months.  i found some marijuana, that is all.  and a little pipe about two inches long.  i talked with her. she said her friends smoked pot and drank --
explain to me how you could think that i should not know about this. explain to me how this would not be relevant to me.  as a parent.
she asked me not to.
you watch and learn.  i earn his trust.  then more pain.  then i appear with kindness.  within a week he will follow me around like a dog.
but will he be house-trained?
when he loves me like a father, he will never tell anyone he was here. he will freely give the names of his superiors.  then we get them and they too will give us names.  and eventually somebody will get us to juan obregon and the cartel will fall.
i want to know who is responsible for this treatment.
yes, sir!
we are not barbarians.
yes, sir!
bring this man a change of good clothes.  has he eaten?
i do not know, sir.
you will dine with me from now on.
i appreciate you coming in so early.
judge wakefield, it is an honor to handle it for you.  consider it gone away.  she is a minor; it probably would have expunged on her 18th birthday anyway.
still, this was a sensitive issue for me and i wanted to thank you personally.
like i said, open container, p.i., misdemeanor possession.  easy to make it disappear.  for you, poof, it is gone.
one thing bothers me...  that kid they dropped off had coke and heroin in him.  serious amounts.  he is lucky he lived.  so i got to ask: what is your daughter on?
i do not know what you mean.
i mean, did you ask her?  what kind of drugs has she tried?
i... i do not really know.
is she in any kind of therapy... professional help?
no, of course not.  she is one of the top students at her school.
well, i hope it stays that way.
you should see little montel play. little montel is the next maradona.
maradona is a cokehead.  hand of god, my ass.  we are wasting our time here.
he won.  he was a winner.  that bothers you.
winners do not do coke.  or have not you been reading the bumper stickers?
david --
we are playing!
are you getting this on tape?
i love my job.  i love it.  the next time I am having a bad day you got to remind me of right now and I will get over it.
a group of us are going out tonight.
who?
guzman, tomas, esteban --
your new friends.
yeah.  it should be fun.  you wanna come?
not this time.
carlos, i mean carl, started out in the family connection business: real estate in tijuana, fishing boats out of ensenada, hydroponic raspberries. he met up with the obregon brothers of the tijuana cartel who were interested in two things: entering society and using his fishing boats.
so you pay off our customs officials?
in mexico law enforcement is an entrepreneurial activity, this is not so true for the usa.  using regression analysis we made a study of the customs lanes at the border and calculated the odds of a search.  the odds are not high, and we found variables that reduce the odds.  we hire drivers with nothing to lose.  then we throw a lot of product at the problem.  some get stopped.  enough get through.  it is not difficult.
this attitude's not going to help him any, is it?
i got greedy.  i decided to bring a little in on my own and somebody tipped you off.  that was my mistake. carl would never be so stupid.
he hired you.  that was a mistake.
carl and i were friends from childhood.  he was loyal, that is not a mistake.
the busiest land border crossing in the world.  over forty-one thousand vehicles per day, twenty-two thousand pedestrians on foot.  i think we do a pretty good job but we know a lot of drugs are still getting through.
any idea how much?
I have read official estimates but i would not bet my house on them.  I have heard the entire cocaine supply for the united states can fit into four tractor-trailers.  at least a half-dozen of those cars right out there are carrying a load of dope, with drivers employed by people who do not give a damn if they are caught or not.
what do you look for?
we ask questions and measure the answers.  when something does not ring true, a fact that does not make sense, a slight hesitation, then it is off to secondary for a closer look.  before nafta we had about 1.9 million trucks a year.  now it is almost double.  pretty soon there'll be mexican truck companies that will have as much freedom in crossing the border as american truck companies.
any way we can do it better?
sure.  more money in intelligence on their side of the border.  so we have a better idea who we are looking for.  more dogs.  more people. supposed to be getting some giant x- ray machines to run the trucks through.  outside of martial law that is about the best you are going to do.  but, i should tell you, there are two things that really have us on edge right now.  in the last six months seizures have tripled, even though we are pulling over the same number of cars.  what does that tell you?
that triple the amount of stuff is going through.
right.  but, that is not the biggest problem.  one of our intel officers picked up information from dea that traffickers have come up with a process, a chemical process, to turn coke into something else.  it does not smell like coke.  it does not look like coke.  and what is worse, it does not react to field test.  it could be anything.  maybe it is already happening.  i mean, how would we know?
what do we do?
i do not know.
what do you think she wants?
she is your girlfriend.  open it, talk about your kids.
anna.  what is wrong?  what do you want?
i can not find manolo.
he is not here.
he never came home last night.  was he with you?
no.
it is no problem.  i was just with everybody we work with.
oh, really.  general salazar was there?
no, but a lot of other people.  you should come.  you should come out with us.
go home.  get cleaned up.  get to work.  salazar is heading down to mexico city next week and I am not getting left behind.  do not fuck this up.
you know my dad takes eight red cold pills every day?  he and my mom have cocktail hour every night, from six to seven, set your clock, two bourbons --
maybe we could show up and smoke a little rock with them to unwind --
yeah, then some dope to take the edge off at the end of a long day.
have you done your homework, honey?
yes, mom --
then here's a little bump.
did courtney love play nancy in syd and nancy?
i think so.  if she did not she should have.  I have only got maybe an hour.  then volleyball practice is over and i have to be home.
why?  nobody's there.
who are these guys?
agents who died in the field.
he died in a liposuction surgery, right?
right.  now it is used by somebody from the juarez cartel, one of his lieutenants...  who knows?  every damn day there is birthday party. at first i thought they must have three hundred children, then i realized they are taunting us.  three miles away and we can not touch them. ha, ha, ha.
who do we interface with on their side?
what do you mean?
i mean, who runs interdiction on the mexico side?
i do not know.  i do not think there is any one person.  see the problem is the juarez cartel owns everything and everybody, all the property on the mexican side, sometimes all the property on both sides.  warehouses, transportation, even tunnels.  it is very organized.
this place is swept twice a day.  i learned that in miami in '85.  then the u.s. shut down the whole caribbean, but it is a big game of wack-a-mole.  knock it down in miami, it pops up here.  and san diego is so much more relaxing.
arnie, i need money.  somebody threatened my children.  they want a first payment of three million dollars.
helena, if i had it i would give it to you, but i do not have that kind of money.
arnie, help me.  does not anyone owe us money?
yes, i told you before, there are people who owe you money but they are not paying.  there is too much heat on carl.
please.  tell me who carl sells to.
even if i knew i would not tell you. you do not want to come into contact with these people.  only carl knows who they are.  that is his real asset. ruiz does not know them.  they do not know ruiz.  church and state.
what about legitimate businesses? we own a construction concern, real estate --
laundromats for the washing of money. unfortunately, carl had only one successful business.
do not you have some good news?  is not there something positive you could say.
sometimes i wonder what I will do if carl does not get out.  I am not very adept at being on my own.  I have always had a man in my life.  always.
i remember when i first met you: little helen watts from the wrong side of somewhere.  i had a feeling even then that your survival instincts were pretty well honed.
I am glad you think so, but I am picturing a debt-ridden, thirty-two year-old mother whose ex-husband is being compared to pablo escobar.  and I am wondering who would want to be with someone like that?
madrigal's alive.
what?
porfirio madrigal is not dead.  i just saw him.
javi!  come on.  do not pull this you do not care bullshit.  this is incredible information.  it must be. javi --
we keep our mouths shut.
i think we may have found our mexican drug czar.  it is this general, salazar.  at least I will have somebody on the other side i can talk to.
does this mean you are going to be gone more?
you might want to pencil in a little face-time with your daughter.
barbara --
because I am at the edge of my capabilities, robert.
the first thing we have to do is present a unified front.
if you start in on the war metaphors I am going to drive this car into a fucking telephone pole.
look, I am as worried as you are --
no, i do not think so.  leave me alone, give me money.  that is what i get from our daughter.  she has a way of shutting me out that seems very familiar.
yeah, well, she has a way of self- medicating that probably seems familiar, too.
I am not the one who has to have three scotches just to walk in the door and say hello.
i have a drink before dinner to take the edge off my day.  that is different.
oh, it is?
yeah, because the alternative is to be bored to death.
where is it?  where are the drugs?  where are they?
fuck you.  i was not doing anything. you are like the gestapo.
okay, young lady, that is it.
like i give a fuck.
what is wrong with you?  what?  you are going away.  you are getting help somewhere.
you can not make me.
oh, yes i can.
somewhere safe.
where?
a place we have, that we know is protected.
no.
it is important that we work together. mexico.  america.  one hand washing the other.
we agree.
so... maybe you tell me about your informants in our operations.
we thought maybe you would have that kind of information for us.
this is a very different proposition.
how is david?
how is david? how is david? he is terrific, carl.
helena --
we watched his father get dragged away by federal agents.  i do not even know how to begin to tell him where you are or when you are coming back... or if you are coming back.
we will get through this, i promise. I will make it up to you --
how?  supportive letters from prison while I am being kicked out of our home?  do you have any idea what is happening out here?  our credit cards are maxed. the people at the bank, you should see their faces when i walk in there. i have a letter from the government telling me that anything i sell from our house will be taken against an income tax lien.  our friends are behaving like the crowd at a public hanging.  nobody will help us.  nobody will take us in.  nobody wants anything to do with us.  so tell me, carl, how you are going to make it up to me.  tell me again how we will get through this, and maybe while you are at it you can put your hand up against the glass so we can have a tender moment of connection.
helena --
tell me what to do, carl.  i need guidance, not a fucking platitude.  I am not bringing a child into the kind of life i grew up with.  i will not do it.  i want our life back.
i recruited the best men in mexico for my task force and put them through a rigorous screening process.  not only physical, but also psychological.
I would like to bring you up to washington, walk you around our side of things, and share some of the information we have been able to develop on your cartels.
that would be very helpful to me.  also, i received the offer from dea and the fbi to train some of my men at quantico.  i think this will be extremely useful, a good way for us to absorb some of your methods.
you have been making very good progress against the tijuana cartel.
yes, i am confident that juan obregon will be taken into custody before the end of the year.  but, you must understand that it is very difficult because of corruption in the police force.  we get a tip that he is one place, then we get there and he is already gone, having been warned by someone on our side.
hopefully the exchange of training methods and information between our countries will help with this problem.
yes, i hope so as well.
let me ask you a related question. we have talked about the supply side, but what about demand?  what is your policy for treating addiction?
addicts treat themselves... they overdose and then there is one less to worry about.
this is ridiculous.  why is there no elevator?
when the dea gets into the narcotics business, then we will stay at the four seasons.
yes.
I am on a special phone, may i speak freely?
you may speak.
i have a job for you and i do not have much time.
you were followed by the police, but they will not hear us over the children. i want to use a bomb.
you are kidding.  can not you shoot him or something?
i do not really like guns.  you shoot someone in the head three times and some doctor will keep them alive.
when will you do it?
i do not know.  eduardo ruiz is the only real witness against carl.  the security is very tight.  there may not be a way.
there is always a way.  if people get to the pope or the president, you can get to him.
what?  what is it?
it is very hard for me to come and tell you this.
why does he need money?
he has debts.  he has gambling debts. he owes a lot of money.
how much?
nine thousand dollars.
what is he planning on telling them?
well, you know, he is going to say about madrigal... and salazar.
should we bring the police into this?
no, not yet.
she is not at that place you sent her?
she snuck away.  and we have not seen her.  she has not come home.
oh, man --
she has not called you?
i tried to talk to her when she was up there, but they would not put me through.  I am surprised she has not called.
can you tell me anything?  do you have any ideas?
i do not know what to say.
I am not the police.  i do not care about experimentation.  she is a kid. I am worried to death.
you will not say anything to my parents?
i do not give a fuck about your parents --
we sometimes went downtown to score.
what?
the west end.  we buy it off the streets.  i can stop, you know, and she can't. two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it is like a weekend thing, then i get my shit together, and for her it is different --
you do not know what the hell you are talking about.  you are a cocky seventeen year-old and you do not have a clue what the stakes are. you do not know the value of the life you have yet to throw away.  and neither does she.
hey man, I am sorry.  I am just trying to help.
you want to help?  stay the fuck away from her.
remember when we sat on that mob guy, that chef, for like six months?
oh, man, I have never eaten so good in my life.  why do not you develop a useful skill?
yeah, like turning into a beautiful woman.
they are going to walk right past me.
what are you?  a mouse?  get out of the car and do it.  this is your chance.
that was a stupid thing you did. incredibly stupid.
i tried, arnie.  and, i will continue to try.
have you gone crazy?  you are not carl.  you are not as good as carl.  they are moving the trial to a high security location.  the press has gone berserk.  the jury will be influenced.  stay out of things. let us try to win the case.
that is going to be rather difficult when all the evidence is against us.
helena, please.  this is out of your hands.
i know i made things worse.  i know that and I am sorry, but arnie i need something from you.  something only you can help me with.
helena --
i need an introduction to the obregon brothers.
i can not do that.
about the other night, I am sorry.
me, too.
god, i do not get it.  are we supposed to say to ourselves, be prepared to lose her, be prepared to lose our child?  why does this happen to someone? how does it happen?
i do not know.
yes, he threatened to kill my five year-old son.  i was under the impression i would be meeting juan obregon.
no, this is not possible.  and i thank you for coming down here, though i suspect it is been a pointless journey.
why do you say that, mr. marquez?
i hear these stories.  your husband in jail.  his business in chaos. various people fighting over the scraps.
my husband is the victim of an informer in your organization, not ours.
that is not true, mrs. ayala.  your route is compromised.  perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in california.
i do not think you are going to do that.
you don't?  listen to this woman in a man's world, a very violent world.
there are plenty of other suppliers in mexico.
but not in whose interest it is to help you out of debt.
my husband had been working on something he called, the project for the children.  are you aware of this?
i do not know.  perhaps i remember something.
we have the ability to change the color, odor, and physical property of cocaine.
you want to smuggle narcotics in mr. espastico jacobo.  that is nothing new.
not in...
every part, from his ears to his accessory belt, is high-impact, pressure-molded cocaine.  odorless. undetectable by dogs.  undetectable by anyone.
i do not believe you.
you first.
I am six months pregnant.  i will not do it.
fine, then we do not have deal.
fine, then we do not have a deal.
that is good coke.
it should be... it is yours.  i want our debt forgiven.  i want to be the exclusive distributor of obregon brothers cocaine for the united states.  and i want the principle witness against my husband, eduardo ruiz, killed.
perhaps... perhaps... I am afraid i must first ask you to pass a test. i asked the same of your husband and he succeeded with flying colors.
take this back with you.  deliver it safely to tigrillo in san diego and we have a deal.
that is crazy.  my husband is on trial for smuggling.
exactly, and this is how i know I am not getting into business with the u.s. government.
you will help me with my other problem.
deliver that safely to tigrillo in san diego.  and we have a deal.
you should feel good about this.
i feel like a traitor.
did you get it?
what are you thinking, calling me at home with a message like that?  you have compromised me and our relationship --
it is the same stuff?  from the rainy day stash?
it is the same.  what happened to what they gave you?
hello.
I am sorry... did i wake you?
salazar's been taken down.  he was working for porfirio madrigal.
what?  i thought madrigal was dead. i thought it was verified.
apparently not.  look, it is a shit storm here right now.  when are you coming back?  i do not know what to tell people any more.
I will get there as soon as i can.
if we are moving the press conference, we need to do it now.  are you all right?
my leica's gone.
so's the video camera.
at least she is alive.
where are you going?
she will be at a pawn shop in an hour.
women's room, stall two.  should we stop for ice-cream?
yeah!
i do not know, maybe we missed her.
i can not believe you used to bring my daughter here, to this place.
hey man, back the fuck up.  to this place.  what is that shit?  right now, all over this country, a hundred thousand white people from the suburbs are driving around downtown asking every black person they see, you got any drugs?  you know where i can get drugs?  what kind of effect you think this has on the psyche of a black person, on their possibilities?  if you sent a hundred thousand black people into your neighborhood, indian hills, and they asked every white person they saw, hey, you got any drugs?, within a day, your friends and their kids would be selling. it is market forces, man.  the product's marked up three hundred percent.  you can go out on the street and make five hundred bucks in two hours and then do whatever you want for the rest of the day.  you think white people would still be going to law school?
I am looking for my daughter, caroline. she comes here.
this is a business.  get the fuck outta here.
i need to find my daughter.  I will pay you.
who the fuck do you think you are? where the fuck do you think you are? why the fuck do you think i should not just put you in a dumpster?
i have money --
i got money.
I will pay you a thousand dollars.  i have it in my wallet.
i want your money, I will take your money.
just tell me where she is.
if manolo had not gone and told them what he did then salazar and madrigal would never have been brought to justice.  he did a great thing for tijuana.  he did a great thing for mexico.
i want to believe you.  i really do.
you will believe me, because it is true.
you expect me to be grateful for spending the rest of my life looking over my shoulder.
that thought makes me feel awful.
can not you for a second imagine none of this had happened?  that my drugs had gone through.  what would have been the harm?  a few people get high who are getting high anyway. your partner is still alive.  we avoid having breakfast together. do not you see this means nothing? that your whole life is pointless?
you are breaking my heart.
the worst thing about you, monty, is you realize the futility of what you are doing and you do it anyway. i wish you could see how transparent you are.  this food tastes like shit.
so go shower already.
you only got to me because you were tipped off by the juarez cartel, who is trying to break into tijuana. you are helping them.  you work for a drug dealer too, monty.
the cocaine brand, 911, is an east coast brand, a juarez cartel brand, and you must know it usually comes through into el paso?
I am aware of that.
so what is it doing in tijuana?
let me ask you a hypothetical question: if salazar worked for madrigal and the juaraz cartel, and he went out of power, would it mean the juarez cartel is losing influence?
it could mean that, yes.
that would probably mean the tijuana cartel is gaining power?
it is possible.
is it possible to have a drug czar in mexico who is not connected in some war to one of the cartels?
it is saturday, arnie.  you work too hard.
carl, I am running late.  I am coming right now --
do not bother.
what?
so arnie, when were you going to tell me about the 3 million dollars we got in from san francisco two days after i got arrested?
i was just waiting for the right time.
and you did not feel like you could trust my wife with this news?
i just did not want to take a chance. i did not want to risk it.  it could have been frozen along with everything else.
you had it all figured out.  you move into my house.  you raise my kids.  you sleep with my wife.  it was a good plan, arnie.
carl, that is insane.
so my wife is lying?
carl, think about it, if i was trying to rip you off, i would have left town after ruiz was killed.  i would not sit next to you in court listening to the dismissal.
arnie, do think there is a difference between a reason and an excuse, because i do not think there is.
carl --
goodbye arnie.
