i chose not to choose life: i chose something else. and the reasons? there are no reasons. who need reasons when you have got heroin?
goldfinger's better than dr. no. both of them are a lot better than diamonds are forever a judgement reflected in its relative poor showing at the box office, in which field, of course, thunderball was a notable success.
people think it is all about misery and desperation and death and all that shite, which is not to be ignored, but what they forget - spud is shooting up for the pleasure of it. otherwise we would not do it. after all, we are not fucking stupid. at least, we are not that fucking stupid. take the best orgasm you ever had, multiply it by a thousand and you are still nowhere near it. when you are on junk you have only one worry: scoring. when you are off it you are suddenly obliged to worry about all sorts of other shite. got no money: can not get pished. got money: drinking too much. can not get a bird: no chance of a ride. got a bird: too much hassle. you have to worry about bills, about food, about some football team that never fucking wins, about human relationships and all the things that really do not matter when you have got a sincere and truthful junk habit.
i would say, in those days, he was a muscular actor, in every sense, with all the presence of someone like cooper or lancaster, but combined with a sly wit to make him a formidable romantic lead, closer in that respect to cary grant.
the only drawback, or at least the principal drawback, is that you have to endure all manner of cunts telling you that -
from time to time, even i have uttered the magic words.
are you serious?
yeah. no more. I am finished with that shite.
well, it is up to you.
I am going to get it right this time. going to get it set up and get off it for good.
sure, sure. I have heard it before.
the sick boy method.
yeah, well, it surely worked for him.
he is always been lacking in moral fibre.
he knows a lot about sean connery.
that is hardly a substitute.
you will need one more hit.
no, i do not think so.
to see you through the night that lies ahead.
you only live twice?
nineteen-sixty-seven.
running time?
one hundred and sixteen minutes.
director?
lewis gilbert.
screenwriter?
eh - ian fleming?
fuck off! he never wrote any of them.
ok, so who was it, then?
you can look it up.
who wrote it?
but you are looking better, it has to be said. healthier. radiant even.
you do not know, do you?
and i wondered if you would care to go to the park tomorrow.
the park?
tomorrow afternoon. usual set-up.
who wrote it?
roald dahl.
roald dahl. fuck me.
it is certainly a phenomenon in all walks of life.
what do you mean?
well, at one time, you have got it, and then you lose it, and it is gone for ever. all walks of life: george best, for example, had it and lost it, or david bowie, or lou reed -
some of his solo stuff's not bad.
no, it is not bad, but it is not great either, is it? and in your heart you kind of know that although it sounds all right, it is actually just shite.
so who else?
charlie nicholas, david niven, malcolm mclaren, elvis presley. -
ok, ok, so what is the point you are trying to make?
all I am trying to do is help you understand that the name of the rose is merely a blip on an otherwise uninterrupted downward trajectory.
what about the untouchables?
i do not rate that at all.
despite the academy award?
that means fuck all. the sympathy vote.
right. so we all get old and then we can not hack it any more. is that it?
yeah.
that is your theory?
yeah, beautifully fucking illustrated.
give me the gun.
do you see the beast? have you got it in you sights?
clear enough, moneypenny. this should present no significant problem.
good luck, spud.
cheers.
now remember --
yeah.
if they think you are not trying, you are in trouble. first hint of that, they will be on to the dss, 'this cunt's no trying' and your giro is fucking finished, right?
right.
but try too hard --
and you might get the fucking job.
exactly.
nightmare.
it is a tightrope, spud, a fucking tightrope.
my problem is that i tend to clam up. i go dumb and i can not answer any questions at all. nerves on the big occasion, like a footballer.
try this.
well, mr. renton, i see that you attended the royal edinburgh college.
indeed, yes, those halcyon days.
one of edinburgh's finest schools.
oh, yes, indeed. i look back on my time there with great fondness and affection. the debating society, the first eleven, the soft know of willow on leather --
I am an old boy myself, you know?
oh, really?
do you recall the school motto?
of course, the motto, the motto --
strive, hope, believe and conquer.
exactly. those very words have been my guiding light in what is, after all, a dark and often hostile world.
no, actually i went to craignewton but i was worried that you would not have heard of it so i put the royal edinburgh college instead, because they are both schools, right, and we are all in this together, and i wanted to put across the general idea rather than the details, yeah? people get all hung up on details, but what is the point? like which school? does it matter? why? when? where? or how many o grades did i get? could be six, could be one, but that is not important. what is important is that i am, right? that i am.
mr. murphy, do you mean that you lied on your application?
only to get my foot in the door. showing initiative, right?
you were referred here by the department of employment. there is no need for you to get you "foot in the door", as you put it.
hey. right. no problem. whatever you say, man. you are the man, the governor, the dude in the chair, like. I am merely here. but obviously i am. here, that is. i hope I am not talking too much. i do not usually. i think it is all important though, is not it?
what do you see as your main strengths?
i love people. all people. even people that no one else loves, i think they are ok, you know. like beggars.
homeless people?
no, not homeless people. beggars, francis begbie -- one of my mates. i would not say my best mate, i mean, sometimes the boy goes over the score, like one time when we -- me and him -- were having a laugh and all of a sudden he is fucking gubbed me in the face, right --
mr. murphy, {leaving your friend aside,} do you see yourself as having any weaknesses?
no. well, yes. i have to admit it: I am a perfectionist. for me, it is the best or nothing at all. if things go badly, i can not be bothered, but i have a good feeling about this interview. seems to me like it is gone pretty well. we have touched on a lot of subjects, a lot of things to think about, for all of us.
thank you, mr. murphy. we will let you know.
the pleasure was mine. best interview I have ever been to. thanks.
a little too well, if anything, a little too well, that is my only fear, compadre.
another dab?
would not say no, would not say no.
how is it going with gail?
no joy yet.
how long is it?
six weeks.
six weeks!
it is a nightmare. she told me she did not want our relationship to start on a physical basis as that is how it would be principally defined from then on in.
where did she come up with that?
she read it in cosmopolitan.
six weeks and no sex?
I have got balls like watermelons, I am telling you.
i read it in cosmopolitan.
it is an interesting theory.
actually it is a nightmare. I have been desperate for a shag, but watching him suffer was just too much fun. you should try it with tommy.
what, and deny myself the only pleasure i get from him? did i tell you about my birthday?
what happened?
he forgot. useless motherfucker.
useless motherfucker, that is what she called me. i told her, I am sorry, but theses things happen. let's put it behind us.
that is fair enough.
yes, but then she finds out I have bought a ticket for iggy pop the same night.
went ballistic?
big time. absolutely fucking radge. 'it's me or iggy pop, time to decide.'
so what is it going to be?
well, I have paid for the ticket.
excuse me, i do not mean to harass you, but i was very impressed by the capable and stylish manner in which you dealt with that situation. i thought to myself: she is special.
thanks.
what is your name?
diane.
where are you going, diane?
I am going home.
where is that?
it is where i live.
great.
what?
I will come back if you like, but I am not promising anything.
do you find that this approach usually works, or, let me guess, you have never tried it before. in fact, you do not normally approach girls, am i right? the truth is that you are a quite, sensitive type but if I am prepared to take a chance i might just get to know the inner you: witty, adventurous, passionate, loving, loyal, a little bit crazy, a little bit bad, but, hey, do not us girls just love that?
eh-
well, what is wrong, boy? cat got your tongue.
think i left something back at the -
diane.
ssshh!
sorry.
shut up.
tommy, let's put the tape on.
now?
yes, i want to watch ourselves while we are screwing.
fuck, ok.
christ, i have not felt that good since archie gemmill scored against holland in 1978.
right. you can not sleep here.
what?
out.
come on.
no argument. you can sleep on the sofa in the living room, or go home. it is up to you.
jesus.
and do not make any noise.
what do you mean, it is 'gone'? where has it gone, tommy?
it will be here somewhere. i might have returned it by mistake.
returned it? where? to the video shop, tommy? to the fucking video store? so every punter in edinburgh is jerking off to our video? god, tommy, i feel sick.
morning, spud. sit down and have some breakfast.
sorry about last night -
I will put the sheets in the washing machine just now.
no, I will wash them. I will take them home and bring them back.
there is no need.
it is no problem.
no problem for me either.  honestly, it is no problem.
I would really rather take care of it myself.
spud, they are my sheets.
i do not see why not.
because it is illegal.
holding hands?
no, not holding hands.
in that case you can do it. you were quite happy to do a lot more last night.
and that is what is illegal. do you know what they do to people like me inside? they would cut my balls off and flush them down the fucking toilet.
calm down. you are not going to jail.
easy for you to say.
can i see you again?
certainly not.
this had better be good.
it will be. it will make a change for three miserable junkies who do not know what they want to do with themselves since they stopped doing smack.
if I am giving up a whole day and the price of a ticket, I am just saying it had better be good. there is plenty of other things i could be doing.
such as?
such as sitting in a darkened room, watching videos, drinking, smoking dope and wanking. does that answer your question?
we go for a walk.
what?
a walk.
but where?
there.
are you serious?
well, what are you waiting for?
i do not know, tommy. i do not know if it's... normal.
it is the great outdoors.
it is really nice, tommy. can we go home now?
it is fresh air.
look, tommy, we know you are getting a hard time off lizzy, but there is no need to take it out on us.
does not it make you proud to be scottish?
and remember, rents: no skag.
aye, ok, fr.  but the good times could not last for ever.
i think allison had been screaming all day, but it had not really registered before. she might have been screaming for a week for all i knew. it is been days since I have heard anyone speak, though surely someone must have said something in all that time, surely to fuck someone must have.
what is wrong, allison?
oh, fuck. sick boy reaches out to allison.
it was not my baby. she was not my baby. baby dawn. she was not mine. spud's? swanney's? sick boy's? i do not know. maybe allison knew. maybe not. i wished i could think of something to say, something sympathetic, something human.
say something, mark, say something --
I am cooking' up. there is a silence.
what is on the menu this evening?
your favourite dish.
excellent.
your usual table, sir?
why, thank you.
and would sir care to settle his bill in advance?
stick it on my tab.
regret to inform, sir, that your credit limit was reached and breached a long time ago.
in that case --
no, thank you. I will proceed directly to the intravenous injection of hard drugs, please.
as you wish.
are you getting out much?
no.
following the game at all?
no.
no. me neither.
you take the test?
aye.
clear?
aye.
that is nice.
I am sorry, tommy.
have you got any gear on you?
no, I am clean.
well, sub us, then, mate. I am expecting a rent cheque.
thanks, mark.
no problem.  no problem -- easy to say when its some other poor cunt with shite for blood.
great.
and see when i get out of here. I have got plans. going to get myself straightened out and head off to thailand, where women really know how to treat a guy. see, out there you can live like a king if you have got white skin and a few crisp tenners in your pocket. no fucking problem.
sure.
the strategy is this: get clean, get mobile, get into dealing, and this time next year I will be watching the rising sun with a posse of oriental buttocks parked on my coupon.
sounds great, swanney.
yeah.
you will have to send us a postcard.
sure will, pal, sure will.
eughh. sounds horrible.
it was not that bad.
did he -- you know?
what?
you know.
no, he did not make me touch it.
oh no, do not even mention it.
he made me lick it.
god, you are sick.
and i got a stitch stuck between my teeth, jerked my head back and the whole fucking stump fell off.
cut it out.
when are you going to visit him?
do not know. maybe thursday.
you are a real mate. and what about tommy? have you been to see him yet?
fuck you. ok, so tommy's got the virus. bad news, big deal. the gig goes on, or had not you noticed? swanney fucks his leg up. well, tough shit, but it could have been worse.
you are all hear.
i know a couple of addicts. stupid wee lassies. i feed them what they need. a little bit of skag to keep them happy while the punters line up at a fiver a skull. it is easy money for me. not exactly a fortune, but I am thinking, 'i should be coining it here.'  less whores, more skag. swanney's right. get clean, get into dealing, that is where the future lies. set up some contacts, get a good load of skag, punt it, profit. what do you think?
fuck you.
and I will tell you why. because I am fed up to my back teeth with losers, no-hopers, draftpacks, schemies, junkies and the like. I am getting on with life. what are you doing?
what do you want?
are you clean?
yes.
is that a promise, then?
yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
calm down, I am just asking. is that hash i can smell?
no.
i would not mind a bit, if it is.
well, it isn't.
smells like it.
you are too young.
too young for what?
you are not getting any younger, mark. the world is changing, music is changing, even drugs are changing. you can not stay in here all day dreaming about heroin and ziggy pop.
it is iggy pop.
whatever. i mean, the guy's dead anyway.
iggy pop is not dead. he toured last year. tommy went to see him.
the point is, you have got to find something new.
it is a scandal, franco.
too right it is. now look, have you got anything to eat, 'cos I am fucking lee marvin, by the way.
what?
I have no fucking cigarettes.
hey, I am wanting a bet put on.
can you not go yourself.
I am a fugitive from the law. i can not be seen on the fucking streets. now watch my lips. kempton park. two-thirty. five pounds to win. bad boy.
I am no a fucking buftie and that is the end of it.
let's face it, it could have been wonderful.
i can not believe you did that.
i got a good price for it. rents, i need the money.
it was my fucking television.
well, christ, if I would known you were going to get so humpty about it, i would not have bothered. are you going to eat that?
why?
well, this guy I have met runs a hotel. brother. loads of contacts. does a nice little sideline in punting british passports to foreigners. get you a good price.
why would i want to sell my passport?
it was just an idea.
tommy knew he had the virus, like, but never knew he would gone full-blown.
what was it, pneumonia or cancer?
no, toxoplasmosis. sort of like a stroke.
eh? how is that?
i bet lizzy told him where to put it.
exactly. I am not wanting a cat, she says. get to fuck, right. so there is tommy stuck with this kitten. you can imagine what happened. the thing was neglected, pissing and shitting all over the place. tommy was lying around fucked out of his eyeballs on smack or downers. he did not know you could get toxoplasmosis from cat shit.
i did not either. what the fuck is it?
did you tell him?
no. on you go.
what?
there is a mate of swanney's. mikey forrester -- you know the guy. he is come into some gear. a lot of gear.
how much?
about four kilos. so he tells me. got drunk in a pub down by the docks last week, where he met two russian sailors. they are fucking carrying the stuff. for sale there and then, like. so he wakes up the next morning, realizes what he is done and get very fucking nervous. wants rid of this. {---------- he is looking for swanney to punt it, but swanney's nowhere to be seen since he lost his leg. ---------- }
so?
so he met me and i offered to take it off his hands at a very reasonable price, with the intention of punting it on myself to a guy i know in london.
so we have just come from tommy's funeral and you are telling me about a skag deal?
what was your price?
four grand.
but you do not have the money?
we are two thousand short.
that is tough.
come on, mark, every cunt knows you have been saving up down in london.
sorry, boys, i do not have two thousand pounds.
yes, you fucking do. I have seen your statement.
jesus.
two thousand, one hundred and thirty- three pounds.
four kilos. that is what -- ten years' worth? russian sailors? mikey forrester? what the fuck are you on these days? you have been to jail, spud, so what is the deal -- like it so much you want to go back again?
i want the money, mark, that is all.
if everyone keeps their mouth shut, there'll be no one going to jail.
it is so simple. we buy it at four grand, we punt it at twenty to this guy that sick boy knows, and he punts it at sixty. everyone's happy, everyone's in profit. i put up two. i come away with six.
unless you get caught.
so long as everyone keeps their mouths shut, we will not be getting caught.
so why have you told me about it?
well, you are not going to tell anyone, are you, and besides, i thought we could meet up afterwards, maybe go somewhere together.
I have got a boyfriend, mark.
what? steady like?
that is right: 'going steady' for four weeks now.
and what age are you? thirteen? fourteen?
sixteen next month.
happy birthday.
what do you think -- i should be carrying a torch for you?
so, what is he like?
well, he is young and he is healthy.
this was his nightmare. the dodgiest scam in a lifetime of dodgie scams being perpetrated with three of the most useless and unreliable fuck-ups in town. i knew what was going on in his mind: any trouble in london and he would dump us immediately, one way or another. he had to. if he got caught with a bagful of skag, on top of that armed robbery shit, he was going down for fifteen to twenty. begbie was hard, but not so hard that he did not shite it off twenty years in saughton.
did you bring the cards?
what?
the cards. the last thing i said to you was mind the cards.
well, I have not brought them.
it is fucking boring after a while without the cards.
well, I have not brought them.
it is fucking boring after a while without the cards.
I am sorry.
bit fucking late, like.
well, why did not you bring them?
because i fucking told you to do that, you doss cunt.
christ.
twenty thousand.
but it is not worth more than fifteen.
ninteen.
buy yourself that island in the sun?
for four fucking grand?  one palm tree, a couple of rocks, and a sewage outflow.
i do not know, maybe I will buy something for my ma, and then buy some good speed, no bicarb like, then get a girl, take her out like, and treat her -- properly.
shag her senseless.
no, i do not mean like that -- i mean something nice, like, that is all --
you daft cunt. if you are going to waste it like that, you might as well leave it all to me. now get the drinks in.
ok. same again?
I am off for a pish. when i come back, that money's still here, ok?
I will be right after you.
you will never catch us, you flabby bastard. right, see, when i come back --
we will be half-way down the road with the money.
I would fucking kill you.
i guess you would, franco.
for fuck's sake.
sorry, mate, I will get you another.
all down my fucking front, you fucking idiot.
look, I am sorry, i did not mean it.
sorry's no going to dry me off, you cunt.
cool down, franco. the guy's sorry.
not sorry enough for being a fat cunt.
shut you mouth or you will be next.
you have stabbed me, man.
you were in my way.
