yep--everybody's having a good time but me--what do you want, mary?
i just wrote a poem about the atlantic ocean--
but, mary--everybody's having such a great time-- why spoil it?
somebody's got to do it--
well, let's hear the poem--
oh, you dear atlantic ocean--how you spread across the sea--from new york to dear old europe--just for boats to ride on thee--
very good, mary--
but i'm not finished yet----and your waves are so colossal--rocking boats both to and fro--oh-h, atlantic, how i love you ----how i love you--
what's the matter, mary?
i'm getting seasick--
h'mm--<u>dear</u> atlantic--
mr. denby--what do you think i ought to do with that part?
put the whole thing in an envelope and mail it through a porthole--
oh, mr. den-n-by!
everyone but me--what do you want now, mary?
i feel better now--i've got a riddle! when is a plate of bean soup not a plate of bean soup?
all right. when <u>is</u> a plate of bean soup not a plate of noodle soup?
when it falls off the table and turns turtle--cute?
mary--fall off the boat and turn to the left--
well, that's something--even if only the fish can see it.
are you happy?
will be--as soon as the ship sails.
i thought i had our sailing covered up--  --and here it is.
do you think lother could have seen it?
not here--follow me around the shed.
don't you know better than to talk to me with people around?
oh, putting on the swell, eh?
i thought you were a smart guy.
if i was smart i wouldn't be working my way over on this ship.
we didn't have enough dough for two tickets, did we?
we coulda got two third-class!
no bank roll there, boy.  lucky i could get you signed on--they picked up that pittsburgh jeweler--made him talk. the heat's on, shortie--and those atlantic breezes are going to be mighty welcome.
oh, i'm not squawkin', but i'm not used to working and it's a bad habit to get into.
it'll never hurt you---got any money?
a dollar seventy and i'm gonna keep it!
no, you're not. give me that dollar seventy.
i'll give you half of it.  here's seventy cents.
nix, the law!
yes, sir!--i will, sir--certainly, sir!
he's a colored man in chauffeur's uniform carrying a basket of fruit.
i'll watch for him, sir.
quick, let me have that money. i'm broke and i'll need it for tips.
oh, no--you're not gonna give my hard-earned money away.
you're a wise guy--gimme back--
shortie, look!
you don't think--?
looks like he's taking a trip--see the baggage? the only time they ever picked me up, mckinney walked through the room while they were grilling--let's see how good his memory is.
i'm so sorry!
want to take it back?
i thought you were one of my friends.
i'd <u>like</u> to be.  sailing on the <u>progress?</u>
yes--are you?
i wouldn't miss this boat for a million.
she looks like a lot of other boats. i grant you she's beautiful.
i'll say she is!
nice lines--
yes--
like her paint job?
very much--
you've got lipstick all over you.
i could stand some more--
--you'll have all the boys tipping their hats to you--  --let me wipe it off.
no! don't touch it! i want the <u>world</u> to see my <u>shame</u>.
with your dry wit and humor--
oh yeah?--my personality put this thing over--
maurice chevalier! there's a fellow with personality.
what's he got that i haven't got?
well, he has a straw hat--
so have i--i can get it right out of my trunk.
--and he has sex appeal.
so what?
get that out of your trunk.
all right--don't spoil the trip with any of those jokes-- there's a nice bunch of people on this trip--nothing but class--i looked over the passenger list and they're all members of the who's who!
never mind the who's who--before i get on this boat i want to know what's what! how about my raise? all i get out of these ocean trips is dizzy.
don't blame it on the ocean!--all right, you'll get the raise!
is that one of the who's who?
no--he's probably one of the "here's how."  take it easy--the ocean's pretty rough today--
i'll say--how fast is this boat going?
oh,--we're doing about thirty--
pretty good--thirty <u>miles</u> an hour--
no. <u>knots</u>!
what?
knots!
i can see you're no gentleman--
he's funny--maybe you can use him in the show, mr. denby.
<u>denby!</u>--are you chad denby?
that's me!
not the <u>real</u> chad denby?--
yes--me--in person!
so what?
i can see where i won't talk much to you.
<u>nuts</u> to you too!
yer lucky i'm here at all. i tell you, jimmy--my feet'll never hold out.
stop squawking! you were doing this job on a ship four years ago when i first picked you up, weren't you?
yeah--but high livin's made me soft.
how're the tips?
a dollar forty.
i'll need it--gave my last buck to the bedroom steward.
not a chance.
come on--  i'll promote a card game, and we'll be sitting pretty.
until then--the dollar forty stays with me.
is that a nice way to talk to a pal?
don't let money spoil a beautiful friendship. look at these here telegrams to be delivered! this ain't a job-- it's a marathon.
oh, shortie!--  --there's a girl on this ship--
--there's thousands of 'em!
a thousand? she's one in a million--right off the top of the rosebush!
this is a business trip!
she was wearing a white dress with a cute, black hat-- and carrying a bag with s. m. on it.  funny--her name's not on the passenger list.
maybe she's in the show--one of the troupers--did you ever think of that?
why <u>didn't</u> i think of that?--i am going to scout around and see if i can find her.
everything in order, sir?  what are <u>you</u> doing here, my lad?
telegrams.
well--get a move on yer--then get back to yer station.
just a minute, steward--haven't you forgotten something?
no, sir?
my change.
change?
a dollar forty--out of the two dollars i gave you.
shortie!--you know my motto?
pleasure first if it don't interfere with business.
right!--but it doesn't have to apply to you--keep your eyes open for anybody wearing a lot of cracked ice and give me the office.
now you're talkin'!
then, after the first number, i tell the one about the scotchman trying to open a pullman window--the scotchman says to the window--"gee you're tight."-- and the window says--"you loosen up a bit and so will i."--good?--and then i do the one--  oh--you don't like it, eh?
chad--lother's on the boat, and i'm worried sick about sally--
oh!--so that's it. does she know he's on board?
no--but i'm going to keep my eye on--
am i a member of this club?
you're the president. come in! your brother was just telling me a few jokes i can use on the radio--
are you paying any attention to his jokes?--the first thing you know, you'll be taking piano lessons from venus de milo--  get out of here.
everything o.k.?
just what the doctor ordered.
looks like your old workshop back on 42nd street.
like it?
swell--you've got times square right here--all but the noises--
yep--spending lots of time aboard--you see, sally, i sold this transatlantic idea to the shipping company.
and you've put it over--haven't you?
why not? i give 'em a great show--and you know-- we're doing capacity, sally--and all <u>nice</u> people--
you never fail at anything, do you, chad?
no--not much--excepting--
still got my picture, i see--i was pretty dumb then, wasn't i, chad?
no--inexperienced--  a red-headed kid--homemade clothes--broadway was paradise--and a slot at the automat was a banquet.
i came to tell you what a swell guy i think you are to do this--
do what--
you made it possible for us to get away at a few hours' notice--you never asked why, but i guess you know.
news travels fast on broadway--you had to get away from a rat--
it wasn't only that--ned was in a jam.
i get it--lee lother have a hand in that, too?
i was so crazy about him--anything he did or said was o.k. by me.  i introduced him to people--even after i knew his stock promoting was phoney and the card games were crooked. it didn't seem to matter--i didn't care--  --until he roped ned in. some confidence game--and the kid left his fingerprints on a drinking glass.
i felt pretty low, sally, when i heard you were running around with a racketeer--
women have a curious taste for knickknacks. when i found out about ned--tried to make a break--lee wouldn't stand for it and--well--here i am!
stay on the other side of the pond for a couple of months--you'll soon forget all about it.
chad denby broadcasting--  --the nicest man i ever knew--
but not nice enough to marry--eh?
come on, now--you've forgotten all about that.
i'll never love anybody else.
women are such fools!--why do so many of us pass up <u>right</u> guys?
guess they're dull--nothing for you to reform.
anya!
don't you hate people that surprise you? ... i do.  we can't stand here.
anya, i think you're crazy.
any woman's crazy to feel about a man the way i do about you.
i wasn't running out on you. when i got over there-- made my plans--i'd have sent for you.
then why the sudden exit without even telling me?
do you want the truth, anya?
it would be a nice change from you.
i had an idea your husband was getting suspicious.
you're a charming liar. you <u>know</u>, herbert's too dull to be suspicious about anything--even when i suddenly decided to come to europe at a few hours' notice--
how'd you ever get away with it?
when i found out you were going i just had an attack of nerves--a few tears--and herbert was on his way downtown to get my passport ... so who cares ... i'm here with you ... and that's all that matters to me.
sure!
i never want to go back....
here's to europe!  couldn't try to look a little less glum, could you?
don't be crazy--i'm tickled to death to see you.
that's fine--because you're going to see a lot of me ... for the rest of your life.
a rare pleasure to meet you, ma'am! where i come from --out in montana--we have some pretty women, but i guess if you walked down main street they'd turn out the fire brigade.
montana?
lumber, ma'am--spent all my life out there piling up a bank balance--  --and now gosh darn it--"honest jack"--that's what they call me--is goin' to see the world.
you're wasting your time--she's a friend of mine.
eh?... oh.
he works the boats as a "come-on" man. we ought to make a fair combination and do a little business. jack's a pretty good dealer himself.
there's a lot of trout in this stream just waitin' for a fly.  i've already been workin' on a young fellow from chicago--related to one of the big packin' families--on his way to biarritz for a good time. likes a little game of bridge and poker.
that's him! that's the sucker!!
looks lonesome--bring him over here.
i can think of nothing nicer. it's very kind of you to invite me--
i'm just commencing to enjoy this trip.
hmm! so am i. if you'll excuse me i have some important unfinished business. i'll see you all later.
we'll be expecting you.
where have you been hiding?
oh--hello!  i got the flowers. that was sweet of you--thank you.
don't thank me. do you recognize me without the lipstick?
so you washed it off!
how about giving me another coat?
good-by.
wait a minute!--they're dancing in the palm court--
good-by!
there's soft music--
--sorry--got an appointment to play shuffle-board.
have we?--well, i'd just as soon play shuffle-board.
hello, denby!
i thought i put you to bed.
oh, was that me you put to bed? thanks. i've been looking all over for you.
well, did you find me?
not yet.  say, where is this boat headed for?
this is a fine time to be asking that. you're on your way to france.
that's news to me. i'd better cable my wife.
hey, boy--give this man a cablegram blank.  where is your wife?
she's in new york.
here you are, sir.
what'll i say?
tell her you're on your way to france and will be back in four weeks.
that's fine.
eighty cents a word--three--six--nine words. that'll be seven twenty, but it's too much--i'll show you how to save some money.
how?
where do you live?
in new york.
your wife knows that, don't she?
sure.
then you don't have to tell her--cut out new york.
"will be back in four weeks"--  --that saves you eighty cents right there!
that's right--here's the eighty cents for you. i'd rather see you get it than the company--send it right off.
wait a minute--i think i can cut out a couple o' more words.
how?
"will--be--back--in--four--weeks." you don't need the "will be." just say "back in four weeks."
that's right. i owe you a dollar sixty.
wait a minute--i think i can cut something else out.  "back in four weeks." instead of "in four weeks"--say "next month"--that saves another word.
right. here's eighty cents. send it.
just a minute--i don't think we need the word "back" --where <u>is</u> "back"?
back is in new york.
your wife knows that, don't she?
sure.
cut it out.
now we get it down to two words--"next month."
send that.
wait a minute--what <u>is</u> next month?
next month is june.
fine! instead of saying "next month"--we'll use one word and say "june."
june? that's my wife's name.
that's great! there's the address and message all in one word.
o.k.! send that!
just a minute--your wife knows her own name, doesn't she?
sure.
well, there's no use in sending it.  see that--i saved you seven twenty!
well. i'd rather see <u>you</u> get it than the company.
this is great. i'll be able to watch your act every night.
you're not very ambitious, are you?
oh, yes, i am, because <u>afterwards</u>--up here in the moonlight.
you work too fast for me, young man.
aw--give a feller a break. my cards are on the table-- i want to know you. how about dining with me tonight?
never eat before the show.
well--breakfast?  lunch?
mckinney's the name.
miss marsh.
this is mr.--er--
brett is the name.
mr denby and mr. mckinney.
i think i've met you before, mr. brett.
oh, yes. on the pier.
before that. your face is very familiar.
yours, too. are you the mckinney, the dentist on calumet avenue in chicago?
no--not quite.
their faces are familiar--but not to each other.
now that that's settled, why not make the game a foursome?
no--i'll take sally and give you the best of it.
tell you what i'll do.  i'll toss you for her--heads she plays with me.
o.k. heads you win.
that's too bad.
i'm o.k. it didn't hurt much.
i'm sorry to hear that.
you're just a master of ceremonies. he might have knocked his head off.
what's the difference? he's got more heads than he needs.
i don't get the humor of that remark.
<u>he</u> does. here's your quarter, brett.
don't stop, nurse--i think i'm going to faint.
you <u>are</u> a lunatic!
even cupid's becoming modern, using medicine balls instead of darts.
you know, you're not a <u>bad</u>-looking girl. in fact--i think you're lovely.
keep your eyes on the ball, mister.
married?
nothing to speak of. what is this--third degree?
i want you to get used to my voice--you're going to hear it a lot.
what a horrible death! do you know what you remind me of?
tell me.
a little boy that has escaped from his nurse and--
--you want to adopt him!--good for you!
here we are, folks--eighty thousand wild-eyed fans go mad--they go mad as chad denby--with the arms of iron, and the nerves of steel--picks up his racket--  what is this thing--a racket or a mallet?
looks to me like standard equipment for the department of street cleaning--
too bad we're not making a trip around the world-- maybe we could finish this game.  hey! when you get through with that conference, shoot that last disk!
you can always tell how much a man's traveled by the way he plays shuffle-board.
yeah--if he'd only stick to shuffle-board.
feeling a little better, i see.
yes, yes--the air--  --i'm getting plenty of air.  miss marsh--mrs. rosson.
how do you do. would you care to finish the game? i have a slight earache.  --and it's so noisy up here.
thanks, no. i despise any form of exercise.  don't forget we have an engagement for cocktails and cards.
thanks. i'll be there. about seven-thirty?
sooner--if you like.  see you again, i hope.
isn't she attractive?
very--your mother?
don't be a c-a-t.
you asked me to dine with you tonight.
yes?
well, i can't.
don't rub it in.
but i'll have cocktails with you.
when?
at seven-thirty?
sooner it you like.
okay.
fatal fascination of james brett wins out.
wrong again--  but i dislike possessive women.
that's all right. i'll attend to this.
wait a minute--let's match for it.
never mind--i'll pay for it now. it'll save time.
see you at seven-thirty in the lounge.
i'll be there--good-by.
those kids seem to be getting along fine!--
it must be the sea air--it gets everybody.
he's a likable chap--he's got an honest face--
it's all right--if you like honest faces--let's have another drink--steward!
oh no--i don't want to impose on you--  it's funny about that billfold--i could have sworn i had it-
inspector mckinney.
are you screwy?
i fell in his arms--couldn't resist it.
you know where that sense of humor's goin' to get you one of these days--
here--drop it where they'll find it and return it to him. he's not a bad egg. i'll ship him back the fifty before we arrive.
you take some awful chances.
well, i had to get some dough to play with those suckers. here, get this changed.
there you are, sir.
thank you.
thirty one's and two ten's?
can you read 'em jack?
they're a cinch to read--queen of clubs--  --ace of diamonds.
the man that marks them is an artist--two hundred and fifty bucks for six decks--and they're worth it.
the country boy's about due.
better unlock the door.  sit up, darling, and be dignified.
they won't squawk--they're professionals.
well, if that's the case, you're sure of winning the first couple of hands--but what about after that?
that's where you come in. now, listen, shortie--
--that's what we call double-a grade lumber, ma'am; you don't find a knot in a thousand feet.
isn't that interesting?
come in!
hope i didn't keep you waiting.
have the purser give you twenty-five hundred dollars for this check--and bring the cash here.
yes, mr. brett--right away.
good afternoon--
glad to see you again.
but, anya, dear! unless you play we won't have a fourth.
i'm sorry, but you three men can play poker or something.  shall i see you tomorrow?
i hope so.
that's a date.
you'll excuse me.
well, it'll have to be poker--but i'm so unlucky in that game.
we haven't any chips, mr. brett--do you mind playing with cash?
not at all.
i'll bet a couple of hundred--  i wonder what's keeping that boy.
don't worry about that.  we'll settle after the hand. out in montana where i come from a man's word is all that's necessary. what have you got?
three jacks.
that beats two pairs. i'm glad <u>i</u> didn't win the first pot. take the money, mr. brett.
well, i'm off to a pretty good start.
if i ever won a pot that large the boat would sink.
here's your twenty-five hundred, mr. brett.
thank you.  i owe you a dollar forty--here--keep the change.
thank you, sir.
i'll take one.
i should pass, but i'll trail along--i'll take three.
i'll bet a couple of hundred.
out my way in montana we always call a bluff.
well, i helped my hand so i'll have to see you.
aces full.
and me coming in with two pair--
it's your deal.
it's a pleasure.
sorry to interrupt you, mr brett, but i have a message for you.
what is it?
your mother is feeling seasick and would like to see you right away.
oh, is she? what a shame!  you'll pardon me?
you're coming back--
that depends on how mother's feeling. you'll excuse me, gentlemen?
how much did you lose?
about twelve hundred.
i went for four.
it's a long trip and we'll get that sucker later.
about sixteen hundred.
partners, ain't we?
sure--and to show you i'm a regular fella--  here's that twenty-five hundred.
isn't it great to be away from it all? aren't you happy? it seems too good to be true.
sure, sis.
aren't the roses beautiful?
all right--but what is there to face? it's finished.
you ran away because you were afraid. i don't want it to end like that.
i didn't want to see you again--that's my privilege.
it wasn't smart. even if you'd gotten away without me --i'd have found you--no matter where you were.
why don't you leave me alone?
because i want you--will always want you--no other woman'll ever take your place.  i want you more now than i did that first night--  you've forgotten all that, i suppose?
i wish i could.
get wise to yourself, sally--you're no sob story.
you get wise to <u>yourself</u>! if you know what's good for you, you'll leave me alone. everybody's entitled to one mistake--well--you're mine. when the going got too rough, i pulled up stakes and quit. we stay quit!--get that!--and what're you going to do about it?
that's more like the old sally--a little bit of fire.  how about ned?
he's all right.
thanks to me.
you leave the kid alone.
a tipoff in the right quarter to take his fingerprints and--
--you'd go with him!
don't kid yourself--you know how i stand back there.
not because of ned.
of course not--  --but isn't it a coincidence that he's from the eighteenth precinct--where they made the squawk?
you can't bluff me any more.
oh, there you are--
that's right--you're the one i was looking for.  you'll excuse me.   how about you and i being alone?
not now, toots--which is the right way to say this? you're dumber than me--or--you're dumber than i?
let me see now--don't tell me--  you're dumber than me and i'm dumber than you. i don't get it.
never mind.
h'mm ... no wonder i have trouble rounding up this show--don't you know there's a rehearsal going on?-- and you wanted a raise.--come on--get going or you'll get it!
oh, all right--  see you later, toots.
oh, denby--have you seen sally around?
no--i'm looking for miss marsh myself. i thought you might know where she is--
she was to meet me here--why don't you wait? she ought to be here any minute.
i would--but our rehearsal starts right away.  before i go i want to ask you a little favor. sally is an important part of my show. some day--not now--when you get a chance--let her come to just one rehearsal. i'll appreciate it.
i'm crazy about the kid and i got him into it.  what do you want me to do?
just smile again and be reasonable.  i'll order dinner here--just the two of us--like old times.
--and you swear when you get to the other side, you'll never come near either of us again?
that's a bet--but i couldn't let you walk out like that, sally. i'd have gone cuckoo back there--just thinking about you--
don't, lee--that's dead.
let's see if i can bring it back to life.
hope we're not intruding.
this is miss marsh.
yes--i met miss marsh. in fact, she always seems to be turning up in the most unusual circumstances.  what's the matter, miss marsh--aren't you feeling well?
well--shall we go into dinner?
i'll join you later.
and <u>do</u> bring miss marsh--  --when she's had time to tidy up a bit.
you're anya rosson, aren't you? i've heard of you back in new york.
sorry i can't return the compliment.
you were indiscreet enough to leave your gloves in my apartment one evening--  --and he was gentleman enough to boast <u>why</u> you'd been there and show me a snapshot of you.
i don't understand.
i think you do.
so that's your little dancer that you were playing around with in new york.  oh--there's no accounting for tastes--  mine, too, seem to be in the gutter.
i can explain--
sure! you're never at a loss for words.
will you pardon me?
<u>gladly</u>.
don't look so uncomfortable, lee--it interferes with your good looks. give me a cigarette.  what did you do--persuade her to come on this voyage with you?
don't talk such bunk! she's one of the acts on the ship. i just ran into her by accident.
did you muss up her hair by accident, too?
you mind your own business! she's an old friend of mine and i like her--what're you going to do about it?
just make it as difficult as possible for you to see her.
i didn't ask you to come away with me--
oh--a hundred times--
--and i can tell you where to get off.
and when you do i'll convey your respects by wireless to herbert.  take it easy, lee--no other woman'll ever get you. at least i'm honest when i tell you there must be something pretty low down in me--because i like you.  you're such a swine!
will you leave me alone?
i like touching you--poison ivy.  you'd just been kissing that girl when i came in, hadn't you?
baloney!
no, darling, lip rouge--all over your mouth.
i don't know what it is, but i won't use it.  is she entertaining you?
i should say not.
good!  at last you're making yourself useful. so long!
i'm sorry i'm late, but something happened.
you're forgiven if you don't make dates with anybody except me for the rest of the voyage.
i must say you're persistent--  --it's kind of flattering.
a little.
sorry.
thanks.
anything i can do?  i'd jump overboard if it'd help you.
mighty decent of you, pal.
decent?  i guess any guy could be decent--if you were interested.
what are you thinking?
a lot of things i'd like to forget.
that's funny--so was i.  guess the ocean makes one sentimental
i can't blame the ocean--it's you.
you don't know anything about me. if you did, you probably wouldn't be here.
don't kid me. i'm in no mood for it.
for once i'm dead on the level--  --crazy about you!
will you take some advice?  if you're looking for romance--count me out--  --if you know what's good for you.
but--
--i know what i'm talking about. i'm no high-school girl looking through a window--reaching for the moon.  guess i'll be going.
sally--!
let's forget it--can't you see i kind of like you, too ... and i don't want to get involved.
you mean that?
don't let's talk about it.
you said it! how about a little action?
how's your mother feeling?
much better--thank you--
how about a little game later?
fine--i'll be glad to.
will you please excuse me? i'll be right back.
we'll save you a place at our table.
thanks.
i'm going to the show--
i'll go with you--
oh, chad--what about the rest of the show?
oh,--i was having so much fun i almost forgot--
isn't she lovely?
yes--and <u>very</u> popular--
i'm all right.
you saw him sitting out there in front, didn't you?
i was in his cabin--
what!--are you crazy?
i'll explain later--
if he comes near you again, i'll break his neck--
care to join us?
no, thanks--i never gambled in my life.
you're lucky--out my way, in montana, there's nothing else to do--
i'm going down to my cabin. i have to send a wireless-- see you later.
this is exciting--but if it's been stolen they can't get away with it on a ship--
some of the smartest robberies have taken place aboard ships--
it'll be very interesting to see how you go about solving this, inspector--
sorry--but i'm on a vacation--
if he lets you down i'll try my hand at sleuthing--  bet i could find that bracelet--
i wouldn't be surprised--
i wouldn't worry about it--it'll turn up--  how about a nightcap, inspector?
no, thanks--i'll take a walk around the deck and then turn in--
good night!
did you find it?
no!--did <u>you</u> take that bracelet?
no-o!
where's lother?
go ahead--you didn't used to be so fussy--
i've lost my taste for knickknacks--
don't be a mug all your life--i'm trying to help you-- you need me more than i need you--have you figured they might pick the kid up in france and extradite him?
have you ever figured they might extradite you?
i'm not so clumsy with fingerprints--
would you like to take a turn around the deck with me?
yes--is it all right if i come like this?
this time i'm really glad you showed up.
lonesome?
we'll let it go at that--
what happened to you?
you've got a gun, haven't you, chad? will you let me have it?
what for?
don't ask any questions--just give it to me.
easy kid--easy....  come on--i want to talk to you.
what, again?
yes--you know what i've been thinking, sally?--
what?--
i think we'll live in europe after we're married?
i didn't <u>know</u> we were <u>going</u> to be married.
you didn't?--i guess i forgot to tell you--
you're a little ahead of yourself--the usual routine would be for you to propose, and if i accept, then you'd give me an engagement ring--
i'll give you plenty of rings as soon as i get the stones set--what do you think?
i think we ought to walk.
thought you were going to turn in, inspector.
nervous. couldn't sleep. feel like a nightcap?
it's getting kind of chilly on deck. if you'll excuse me, i think i'll go to bed. good night, mr. mckinney!
good night!
good night, mrs. brett!
good night, idiot!
how about you?
no, thanks. i've promised to play cards.
you know what i'd do, if i were you--before the card game i'd go to the purser's office.
why?
well, someone else besides myself may have seen you in the vicinity of mrs. rosson's cabin this evening--even the stewards in that corridor insisted on being searched. get me?
sure, i'll go.
i'll go with you.
swell!
it's easy to see the purser hasn't had much practice.
how about trying your fine italian hand?
this has nothing to do with me--  but always remember, purser, when you're searching anybody, take the lining of their coat, like this--  --run your fingers all along these seams.... then-- back of the collar--<u>here</u>--that used to be a favorite trick--and never forget to put your finger down inside of the shoe--like this.
hey!--you're tickling me.
then we run our hands down a man's arms and legs-- like this--in case they got what you're looking for attached to a string.  see what i mean, purser?
he's certainly good-natured.
"smooth's" the word.
i mean--a lot of gentlemen would be offended if you searched them like that.
it all depends on what you're used to.
well, i'll be a son of a sea cook!
what's the matter?
nothin--  --i just remembered the name of a guy that owes me fifty bucks.
you keep it--
<u>me</u>!
sure! mckinney will never suspect you--
say--wait a minute!
see you later, shortie--i'm off to the pool.
hello, young fellow!
coming to the pool for a swim?
nooooo!--going to catch up on my reading.  i'll take this one.
hello, inspector--i hear your vacation's been spoiled. somebody lost a bracelet.
yes, a bracelet's been lost, but i'm still on my vacation.
i understand you searched brett for it last night. by the way--what do you know about him?
well, i've seen him here and there. what's on your mind?
oh, nothing--only i wondered why you suspected him.
well, i'll tell you--we picked him up about a year ago-- but could never pin anything on him.
maybe he just travels in bad company.
yeah--
no--i'm furious!--nobody seems to do anything about it--
why worry? it was insured--how about that swimming lesson i promised you?
i could see you were pining away--
oh, that's mrs. rosson--remember, you met her yesterday?
yes--i remember--
how well do you know her?
just met her on the boat--supposed to play bridge with her yesterday--but she wouldn't--so we played poker instead.
who with?
a mr. summers and a man called lother.
oh, you infant! how much did you lose?
lose?--i won a little--
that was the come-on--promise me you won't play with them again--
what do you know about them?
too much--remember--i warned you about me--  i used to be lee lother's girl--
you can live that down, can't you?
he's a con man--crooked as a tree--and i was part of the racket--helped him!  now--if you have an appointment elsewhere--i'll excuse you!
you can't lose me, sally--i'm no lily myself!
i'm beginning to think you're a pretty swell guy.
come on--let's take a swim.
nothin'.
let me look at it.
ain't got time.
hey--you! where you going?
i tell yuh i ain't got no bracelet--
i saw him take the bracelet out of that shoe.
yer crazy!--i ain't got no bracelet.
then why did you run away?
because you ran after me.
come on, get up.  that horse is carrying too much of a load.
who won?
well, you got the first down--there's one more to go. come on, we're ready to start right now. come on. just keep stiff.
i was never stiffer in my life.
all right, folks, get on your mark. when you hear the pistol shot--
wouldn't bet against her.  tell you what i will do--bet you i find that bracelet before we hit france.  not a hundred, though--just fifty.
it's a bet--come on, sally!
nice girl, that--  i'd hate to see <u>her</u> get a raw deal.  you know, the great trouble with crooks is they're <u>too</u> smart. now if i'd taken that bracelet, i'd find some way to slip it back--i'd know i could never get ashore with it.
anybody that's taken the trouble to get it would be a mug to put it back.
could i see you a minute?
sure!  excuse me.
congratulations.
exciting, wasn't it? where's jimmy?
he'll be back.  what would you do if anybody gave you a bracelet?
say, "thanks very much!"
i mean if you knew it were stolen.
well, of course, i wouldn't take it.
and if you liked the person, you'd naturally persuade him to give it back and go straight, wouldn't you?
sure i would--but i don't get what you're driving at.
maybe you will after you've thought it over.
well, to tell you the truth, gentlemen, i've sworn off playing poker.
why, you wouldn't quit when you're ahead, would you?
why isn't that a good time to quit?
no gentleman would do that.
i agree with you--no gentleman, would--but i would--  --especially when my opponents have taken the precaution of marking the cards.
i thought you were a sucker--
think again--
in that case--you owe us exactly sixteen hundred dollars.
oh, no--i played with <u>your</u> cards--in <u>your</u> cabin--at <u>your</u> suggestion--if you've got a kick coming, make it to the purser.
i'm making it to you. if i don't get it by tonight--you'll find it a <u>rough</u> voyage.
that goes two ways.
make it three, boys--i'll play this hand pat.
and i'll lay odds you got that bracelet.
i'll lay odds you get a pair of 'em--why, a high-school kid could take you saps--and another thing--lay off sally marsh.  --"honest jack"! one look at your mug and the whole world buttons up its pockets.
yes.
very serious?
very--
why--don't you like him?
of course--but--  there's your cue--hurry up--
i'll give you another chance to tell the truth, lother.
what do you mean?
why don't you be a good little boy and leave her alone?
oh--i understand you were an important part of her education when she came to new york.
i just tried to show her the difference between the squirrels and the skunks.
meaning what?
you don't shoot squirrels.
i know he is. you change those clothes and then come to my cabin. i'll expect you around twelve o'clock.
not a chance--i'm through.
i'll change and be with you in ten minutes.
make it five.
seven-fifty. positively my last offer.
i'll be waiting on deck.
where'd you get it?
lifted it out of a guy's cabin last night.
what did you want a gun for?
stick-up. needed dough to get ashore.
is that why you killed lee lother?
guess again, copper.
get moving--
that's the truth--every single word!
i sincerely hope so--
why should <u>i</u> kill him?
for a very excellent reason from your own admission--  --i'm not saying you <u>did</u>--but i think you know more than you're telling. years of experience have taught me to mistrust circumstantial evidence. nevertheless, in your case there's plenty of it.
thought you might need me--don't talk, kid, and don't let him scare you--
don't be too smart, jimmy--you're out in the rough yourself. you had an argument with lother a couple of hours before he was killed--but i'll deal with that later--
yes, yes!
you didn't have a gun in your hand last night?
no!
s'pose you've never thought of killing him--
i wouldn't say that--  i'm glad he's dead--yes--i'd thought of killing him-- but i didn't--
why?
because i was yellow, i guess--
don't get yourself all worked up--
you keep out of this--  you admit you thought of killing him--how were you going to do it?
i tried to borrow a gun from chad, but--
this is interesting--  why didn't you tell me you gave this kid your gun last night?
i didn't--
he asked for a loan of it, didn't he?
yes--but i didn't give it to him--
is this your gun?
yes!
mmmmmmmmmhm....  now, jimmy, what were you doing in that corridor before the shots were fired?
why, i--
i won't--i'll ask for one right now.  sally tells me she's in love with you.
she did?
yes--but don't ask me why--because i could never tell you. i don't know what most guys want out of life--but <u>that</u> would be enough for me--i wouldn't care about-- easy money--or--showing off my smart brains--i'd just like to live <u>my</u> life so nothing i did would bounce back and ruin <u>hers</u>--do i make myself clear?
very clear. that's one favor i'll be glad to do you.
o.k., kid--  i'm only sorry for one thing.
what's that?
if you hadn't agreed--i was going to throw you overboard--
hello, jimmy. what's up?
listen, runt--quick! where's the ice?
why--i--er thought with all this heat turned on i'd hide it.
where did you hide it?
on the drunk.
get it!
soon as i get that bracelet back i'm going to relax. wish the guy that borrowed it would help me out--i got to win that fifty bucks.
i've got a hunch you're going to win that bet, inspector.
i hope so. well, i guess you two can do without me. i'll be seeing you.
i'm going to return the bracelet right now and face the consequences.
jimmy!
well, i'll be--!!!
what's the matter?
here's your fifty.
thanks. that makes us square.
next time i get a vacation i'll spend it at headquarters. good-night.
he's a swell person. he told me he'd rather turn one guy straight than jug a million.
oh, mr. denby, i wrote a poem about a bracelet--
good-night, folks.
