yep--everybody's having a good time but me--what do you want, mary?
i just wrote a poem about the atlantic ocean--
but, mary--everybody's having such a great time-- why spoil it?
somebody is got to do it--
well, let's hear the poem--
oh, you dear atlantic ocean--how you spread across the sea--from new york to dear old europe--just for boats to ride on thee--
very good, mary--
but I am not finished yet----and your waves are so colossal--rocking boats both to and fro--oh-h, atlantic, how i love you ----how i love you--
what is the matter, mary?
I am getting seasick--
h'mm--dear atlantic--
mr. denby--what do you think i ought to do with that part?
put the whole thing in an envelope and mail it through a porthole--
oh, mr. den-n-by!
everyone but me--what do you want now, mary?
i feel better now--i've got a riddle! when is a plate of bean soup not a plate of bean soup?
all right. when is a plate of bean soup not a plate of noodle soup?
when it falls off the table and turns turtle--cute?
mary--fall off the boat and turn to the left--
well, that is something--even if only the fish can see it.
are you happy?
will be--as soon as the ship sails.
i thought i had our sailing covered up--  --and here it is.
do you think lother could have seen it?
not here--follow me around the shed.
do not you know better than to talk to me with people around?
oh, putting on the swell, eh?
i thought you were a smart guy.
if i was smart i would not be working my way over on this ship.
we did not have enough dough for two tickets, did we?
we coulda got two third-class!
no bank roll there, boy.  lucky i could get you signed on--they picked up that pittsburgh jeweler--made him talk. the heat's on, shortie--and those atlantic breezes are going to be mighty welcome.
oh, I am not squawkin', but I am not used to working and it is a bad habit to get into.
it will never hurt you---got any money?
a dollar seventy and I am going to keep it!
no, you are not. give me that dollar seventy.
I will give you half of it.  here's seventy cents.
nix, the law!
yes, sir!--i will, sir--certainly, sir!
he is a colored man in chauffeur's uniform carrying a basket of fruit.
I will watch for him, sir.
quick, let me have that money. I am broke and I will need it for tips.
oh, no--you're not going to give my hard-earned money away.
you are a wise guy--gimme back--
shortie, look!
you do not think--?
looks like he is taking a trip--see the baggage? the only time they ever picked me up, mckinney walked through the room while they were grilling--let's see how good his memory is.
I am so sorry!
want to take it back?
i thought you were one of my friends.
I would like to be.  sailing on the progress?
yes--are you?
i would not miss this boat for a million.
she looks like a lot of other boats. i grant you she is beautiful.
I will say she is!
nice lines--
yes--
like her paint job?
very much--
you have got lipstick all over you.
i could stand some more--
--you'll have all the boys tipping their hats to you--  --let me wipe it off.
no! do not touch it! i want the world to see my shame.
with your dry wit and humor--
oh yeah?--my personality put this thing over--
maurice chevalier! there is a fellow with personality.
what is he got that i have not got?
well, he has a straw hat--
so have i--i can get it right out of my trunk.
--and he has sex appeal.
so what?
get that out of your trunk.
all right--don't spoil the trip with any of those jokes-- there is a nice bunch of people on this trip--nothing but class--i looked over the passenger list and they are all members of the who is who!
never mind the who is who--before i get on this boat i want to know what is what! how about my raise? all i get out of these ocean trips is dizzy.
do not blame it on the ocean!--all right, you will get the raise!
is that one of the who is who?
no--he's probably one of the "here's how."  take it easy--the ocean's pretty rough today--
I will say--how fast is this boat going?
oh,--we're doing about thirty--
pretty good--thirty miles an hour--
no. knots!
what?
knots!
i can see you are no gentleman--
he is funny--maybe you can use him in the show, mr. denby.
denby!--are you chad denby?
that is me!
not the real chad denby?--
yes--me--in person!
so what?
i can see where i will not talk much to you.
nuts to you too!
yer lucky I am here at all. i tell you, jimmy--my feet'll never hold out.
stop squawking! you were doing this job on a ship four years ago when i first picked you up, were not you?
yeah--but high livin's made me soft.
how're the tips?
a dollar forty.
I will need it--gave my last buck to the bedroom steward.
not a chance.
come on--  I will promote a card game, and we will be sitting pretty.
until then--the dollar forty stays with me.
is that a nice way to talk to a pal?
do not let money spoil a beautiful friendship. look at these here telegrams to be delivered! this am not a job-- it is a marathon.
oh, shortie!--  --there's a girl on this ship--
--there's thousands of 'em!
a thousand? she is one in a million--right off the top of the rosebush!
this is a business trip!
she was wearing a white dress with a cute, black hat-- and carrying a bag with s. m. on it.  funny--her name's not on the passenger list.
maybe she is in the show--one of the troupers--did you ever think of that?
why didn't i think of that?--i am going to scout around and see if i can find her.
everything in order, sir?  what are you doing here, my lad?
telegrams.
well--get a move on yer--then get back to yer station.
just a minute, steward--haven't you forgotten something?
no, sir?
my change.
change?
a dollar forty--out of the two dollars i gave you.
shortie!--you know my motto?
pleasure first if it do not interfere with business.
right!--but it does not have to apply to you--keep your eyes open for anybody wearing a lot of cracked ice and give me the office.
now you are talkin'!
then, after the first number, i tell the one about the scotchman trying to open a pullman window--the scotchman says to the window--"gee you are tight."-- and the window says--"you loosen up a bit and so will i."--good?--and then i do the one--  oh--you do not like it, eh?
chad--lother's on the boat, and I am worried sick about sally--
oh!--so that is it. does she know he is on board?
no--but I am going to keep my eye on--
am i a member of this club?
you are the president. come in! your brother was just telling me a few jokes i can use on the radio--
are you paying any attention to his jokes?--the first thing you know, you will be taking piano lessons from venus de milo--  get out of here.
everything o.k.?
just what the doctor ordered.
looks like your old workshop back on 42nd street.
like it?
swell--you've got times square right here--all but the noises--
yep--spending lots of time aboard--you see, sally, i sold this transatlantic idea to the shipping company.
and you have put it over--haven't you?
why not? i give 'em a great show--and you know-- we are doing capacity, sally--and all nice people--
you never fail at anything, do you, chad?
no--not much--excepting--
still got my picture, i see--i was pretty dumb then, was not i, chad?
no--inexperienced--  a red-headed kid--homemade clothes--broadway was paradise--and a slot at the automat was a banquet.
i came to tell you what a swell guy i think you are to do this--
do what--
you made it possible for us to get away at a few hours' notice--you never asked why, but i guess you know.
news travels fast on broadway--you had to get away from a rat--
it was not only that--ned was in a jam.
i get it--lee lother have a hand in that, too?
i was so crazy about him--anything he did or said was o.k. by me.  i introduced him to people--even after i knew his stock promoting was phoney and the card games were crooked. it did not seem to matter--i did not care--  --until he roped ned in. some confidence game--and the kid left his fingerprints on a drinking glass.
i felt pretty low, sally, when i heard you were running around with a racketeer--
women have a curious taste for knickknacks. when i found out about ned--tried to make a break--lee would not stand for it and--well--here i am!
stay on the other side of the pond for a couple of months--you'll soon forget all about it.
chad denby broadcasting--  --the nicest man i ever knew--
but not nice enough to marry--eh?
come on, now--you've forgotten all about that.
I will never love anybody else.
women are such fools!--why do so many of us pass up right guys?
guess they are dull--nothing for you to reform.
anya!
do not you hate people that surprise you? ... i do.  we can not stand here.
anya, i think you are crazy.
any woman's crazy to feel about a man the way i do about you.
i was not running out on you. when i got over there-- made my plans--i'd have sent for you.
then why the sudden exit without even telling me?
do you want the truth, anya?
it would be a nice change from you.
i had an idea your husband was getting suspicious.
you are a charming liar. you know, herbert's too dull to be suspicious about anything--even when i suddenly decided to come to europe at a few hours' notice--
how did you ever get away with it?
when i found out you were going i just had an attack of nerves--a few tears--and herbert was on his way downtown to get my passport ... so who cares ... I am here with you ... and that is all that matters to me.
sure!
i never want to go back....
here's to europe!  could not try to look a little less glum, could you?
do not be crazy--i'm tickled to death to see you.
that is fine--because you are going to see a lot of me ... for the rest of your life.
a rare pleasure to meet you, ma'am! where i come from --out in montana--we have some pretty women, but i guess if you walked down main street they would turn out the fire brigade.
montana?
lumber, ma'am--spent all my life out there piling up a bank balance--  --and now gosh darn it--"honest jack"--that's what they call me--is goin' to see the world.
you are wasting your time--she's a friend of mine.
eh?... oh.
he works the boats as a "come-on" man. we ought to make a fair combination and do a little business. jack's a pretty good dealer himself.
there is a lot of trout in this stream just waitin' for a fly.  I have already been workin' on a young fellow from chicago--related to one of the big packin' families--on his way to biarritz for a good time. likes a little game of bridge and poker.
that is him! that is the sucker!!
looks lonesome--bring him over here.
i can think of nothing nicer. it is very kind of you to invite me--
I am just commencing to enjoy this trip.
hmm! so am i. if you will excuse me i have some important unfinished business. I will see you all later.
we will be expecting you.
where have you been hiding?
oh--hello!  i got the flowers. that was sweet of you--thank you.
do not thank me. do you recognize me without the lipstick?
so you washed it off!
how about giving me another coat?
good-by.
wait a minute!--they're dancing in the palm court--
good-by!
there is soft music--
--sorry--got an appointment to play shuffle-board.
have we?--well, I would just as soon play shuffle-board.
hello, denby!
i thought i put you to bed.
oh, was that me you put to bed? thanks. I have been looking all over for you.
well, did you find me?
not yet.  say, where is this boat headed for?
this is a fine time to be asking that. you are on your way to france.
that is news to me. I would better cable my wife.
hey, boy--give this man a cablegram blank.  where is your wife?
she is in new york.
here you are, sir.
what will i say?
tell her you are on your way to france and will be back in four weeks.
that is fine.
eighty cents a word--three--six--nine words. that will be seven twenty, but it is too much--i'll show you how to save some money.
how?
where do you live?
in new york.
your wife knows that, do not she?
sure.
then you do not have to tell her--cut out new york.
"will be back in four weeks"--  --that saves you eighty cents right there!
that is right--here's the eighty cents for you. I would rather see you get it than the company--send it right off.
wait a minute--i think i can cut out a couple o' more words.
how?
"will--be--back--in--four--weeks." you do not need the "will be." just say "back in four weeks."
that is right. i owe you a dollar sixty.
wait a minute--i think i can cut something else out.  "back in four weeks." instead of "in four weeks"--say "next month"--that saves another word.
right. here's eighty cents. send it.
just a minute--i do not think we need the word "back" --where is "back"?
back is in new york.
your wife knows that, do not she?
sure.
cut it out.
now we get it down to two words--"next month."
send that.
wait a minute--what is next month?
next month is june.
fine! instead of saying "next month"--we'll use one word and say "june."
june? that is my wife's name.
that is great! there is the address and message all in one word.
o.k.! send that!
just a minute--your wife knows her own name, does not she?
sure.
well, there is no use in sending it.  see that--i saved you seven twenty!
well. I would rather see you get it than the company.
this is great. I will be able to watch your act every night.
you are not very ambitious, are you?
oh, yes, i am, because afterwards--up here in the moonlight.
you work too fast for me, young man.
aw--give a feller a break. my cards are on the table-- i want to know you. how about dining with me tonight?
never eat before the show.
well--breakfast?  lunch?
mckinney's the name.
miss marsh.
this is mr.--er--
brett is the name.
mr denby and mr. mckinney.
i think I have met you before, mr. brett.
oh, yes. on the pier.
before that. your face is very familiar.
yours, too. are you the mckinney, the dentist on calumet avenue in chicago?
no--not quite.
their faces are familiar--but not to each other.
now that that is settled, why not make the game a foursome?
no--i'll take sally and give you the best of it.
tell you what I will do.  I will toss you for her--heads she plays with me.
o.k. heads you win.
that is too bad.
I am o.k. it did not hurt much.
I am sorry to hear that.
you are just a master of ceremonies. he might have knocked his head off.
what is the difference? he is got more heads than he needs.
i do not get the humor of that remark.
he does. here's your quarter, brett.
do not stop, nurse--i think I am going to faint.
you are a lunatic!
even cupid's becoming modern, using medicine balls instead of darts.
you know, you are not a bad-looking girl. in fact--i think you are lovely.
keep your eyes on the ball, mister.
married?
nothing to speak of. what is this--third degree?
i want you to get used to my voice--you're going to hear it a lot.
what a horrible death! do you know what you remind me of?
tell me.
a little boy that has escaped from his nurse and--
--you want to adopt him!--good for you!
here we are, folks--eighty thousand wild-eyed fans go mad--they go mad as chad denby--with the arms of iron, and the nerves of steel--picks up his racket--  what is this thing--a racket or a mallet?
looks to me like standard equipment for the department of street cleaning--
too bad we are not making a trip around the world-- maybe we could finish this game.  hey! when you get through with that conference, shoot that last disk!
you can always tell how much a man's traveled by the way he plays shuffle-board.
yeah--if he would only stick to shuffle-board.
feeling a little better, i see.
yes, yes--the air--  --i'm getting plenty of air.  miss marsh--mrs. rosson.
how do you do. would you care to finish the game? i have a slight earache.  --and it is so noisy up here.
thanks, no. i despise any form of exercise.  do not forget we have an engagement for cocktails and cards.
thanks. I will be there. about seven-thirty?
sooner--if you like.  see you again, i hope.
is not she attractive?
very--your mother?
do not be a c-a-t.
you asked me to dine with you tonight.
yes?
well, i can't.
do not rub it in.
but I will have cocktails with you.
when?
at seven-thirty?
sooner it you like.
okay.
fatal fascination of james brett wins out.
wrong again--  but i dislike possessive women.
that is all right. I will attend to this.
wait a minute--let's match for it.
never mind--i'll pay for it now. it will save time.
see you at seven-thirty in the lounge.
I will be there--good-by.
those kids seem to be getting along fine!--
it must be the sea air--it gets everybody.
he is a likable chap--he's got an honest face--
it is all right--if you like honest faces--let's have another drink--steward!
oh no--i do not want to impose on you--  it is funny about that billfold--i could have sworn i had it-
inspector mckinney.
are you screwy?
i fell in his arms--couldn't resist it.
you know where that sense of humor's goin' to get you one of these days--
here--drop it where they will find it and return it to him. he is not a bad egg. I will ship him back the fifty before we arrive.
you take some awful chances.
well, i had to get some dough to play with those suckers. here, get this changed.
there you are, sir.
thank you.
thirty one's and two ten's?
can you read 'em jack?
they are a cinch to read--queen of clubs--  --ace of diamonds.
the man that marks them is an artist--two hundred and fifty bucks for six decks--and they are worth it.
the country boy's about due.
better unlock the door.  sit up, darling, and be dignified.
they will not squawk--they're professionals.
well, if that is the case, you are sure of winning the first couple of hands--but what about after that?
that is where you come in. now, listen, shortie--
--that's what we call double-a grade lumber, ma'am; you do not find a knot in a thousand feet.
is not that interesting?
come in!
hope i did not keep you waiting.
have the purser give you twenty-five hundred dollars for this check--and bring the cash here.
yes, mr. brett--right away.
good afternoon--
glad to see you again.
but, anya, dear! unless you play we will not have a fourth.
I am sorry, but you three men can play poker or something.  shall i see you tomorrow?
i hope so.
that is a date.
you will excuse me.
well, it will have to be poker--but I am so unlucky in that game.
we have not any chips, mr. brett--do you mind playing with cash?
not at all.
I will bet a couple of hundred--  i wonder what is keeping that boy.
do not worry about that.  we will settle after the hand. out in montana where i come from a man's word is all that is necessary. what have you got?
three jacks.
that beats two pairs. I am glad i did not win the first pot. take the money, mr. brett.
well, I am off to a pretty good start.
if i ever won a pot that large the boat would sink.
here's your twenty-five hundred, mr. brett.
thank you.  i owe you a dollar forty--here--keep the change.
thank you, sir.
I will take one.
i should pass, but I will trail along--i'll take three.
I will bet a couple of hundred.
out my way in montana we always call a bluff.
well, i helped my hand so I will have to see you.
aces full.
and me coming in with two pair--
it is your deal.
it is a pleasure.
sorry to interrupt you, mr brett, but i have a message for you.
what is it?
your mother is feeling seasick and would like to see you right away.
oh, is she? what a shame!  you will pardon me?
you are coming back--
that depends on how mother's feeling. you will excuse me, gentlemen?
how much did you lose?
about twelve hundred.
i went for four.
it is a long trip and we will get that sucker later.
about sixteen hundred.
partners, am not we?
sure--and to show you I am a regular fella--  here's that twenty-five hundred.
is not it great to be away from it all? are not you happy? it seems too good to be true.
sure, sis.
are not the roses beautiful?
all right--but what is there to face? it is finished.
you ran away because you were afraid. i do not want it to end like that.
i did not want to see you again--that's my privilege.
it was not smart. even if you would gotten away without me --i'd have found you--no matter where you were.
why do not you leave me alone?
because i want you--will always want you--no other woman'll ever take your place.  i want you more now than i did that first night--  you have forgotten all that, i suppose?
i wish i could.
get wise to yourself, sally--you're no sob story.
you get wise to yourself! if you know what is good for you, you will leave me alone. everybody's entitled to one mistake--well--you're mine. when the going got too rough, i pulled up stakes and quit. we stay quit!--get that!--and what are you going to do about it?
that is more like the old sally--a little bit of fire.  how about ned?
he is all right.
thanks to me.
you leave the kid alone.
a tipoff in the right quarter to take his fingerprints and--
--you'd go with him!
do not kid yourself--you know how i stand back there.
not because of ned.
of course not--  --but is not it a coincidence that he is from the eighteenth precinct--where they made the squawk?
you can not bluff me any more.
oh, there you are--
that is right--you're the one i was looking for.  you will excuse me.   how about you and i being alone?
not now, toots--which is the right way to say this? you are dumber than me--or--you're dumber than i?
let me see now--don't tell me--  you are dumber than me and I am dumber than you. i do not get it.
never mind.
h'mm ... no wonder i have trouble rounding up this show--don't you know there is a rehearsal going on?-- and you wanted a raise.--come on--get going or you will get it!
oh, all right--  see you later, toots.
oh, denby--have you seen sally around?
no--i'm looking for miss marsh myself. i thought you might know where she is--
she was to meet me here--why do not you wait? she ought to be here any minute.
i would--but our rehearsal starts right away.  before i go i want to ask you a little favor. sally is an important part of my show. some day--not now--when you get a chance--let her come to just one rehearsal. I will appreciate it.
I am crazy about the kid and i got him into it.  what do you want me to do?
just smile again and be reasonable.  I will order dinner here--just the two of us--like old times.
--and you swear when you get to the other side, you will never come near either of us again?
that is a bet--but i could not let you walk out like that, sally. I would have gone cuckoo back there--just thinking about you--
don't, lee--that's dead.
let's see if i can bring it back to life.
hope we are not intruding.
this is miss marsh.
yes--i met miss marsh. in fact, she always seems to be turning up in the most unusual circumstances.  what is the matter, miss marsh--aren't you feeling well?
well--shall we go into dinner?
I will join you later.
and do bring miss marsh--  --when she is had time to tidy up a bit.
you are anya rosson, are not you? I have heard of you back in new york.
sorry i can not return the compliment.
you were indiscreet enough to leave your gloves in my apartment one evening--  --and he was gentleman enough to boast why you would been there and show me a snapshot of you.
i do not understand.
i think you do.
so that is your little dancer that you were playing around with in new york.  oh--there's no accounting for tastes--  mine, too, seem to be in the gutter.
i can explain--
sure! you are never at a loss for words.
will you pardon me?
gladly.
do not look so uncomfortable, lee--it interferes with your good looks. give me a cigarette.  what did you do--persuade her to come on this voyage with you?
do not talk such bunk! she is one of the acts on the ship. i just ran into her by accident.
did you muss up her hair by accident, too?
you mind your own business! she is an old friend of mine and i like her--what're you going to do about it?
just make it as difficult as possible for you to see her.
i did not ask you to come away with me--
oh--a hundred times--
--and i can tell you where to get off.
and when you do I will convey your respects by wireless to herbert.  take it easy, lee--no other woman'll ever get you. at least I am honest when i tell you there must be something pretty low down in me--because i like you.  you are such a swine!
will you leave me alone?
i like touching you--poison ivy.  you would just been kissing that girl when i came in, had not you?
baloney!
no, darling, lip rouge--all over your mouth.
i do not know what it is, but i will not use it.  is she entertaining you?
i should say not.
good!  at last you are making yourself useful. so long!
I am sorry I am late, but something happened.
you are forgiven if you do not make dates with anybody except me for the rest of the voyage.
i must say you are persistent--  --it's kind of flattering.
a little.
sorry.
thanks.
anything i can do?  I would jump overboard if it would help you.
mighty decent of you, pal.
decent?  i guess any guy could be decent--if you were interested.
what are you thinking?
a lot of things I would like to forget.
that is funny--so was i.  guess the ocean makes one sentimental
i can not blame the ocean--it's you.
you do not know anything about me. if you did, you probably would not be here.
do not kid me. I am in no mood for it.
for once I am dead on the level--  --crazy about you!
will you take some advice?  if you are looking for romance--count me out--  --if you know what is good for you.
but--
--i know what I am talking about. I am no high-school girl looking through a window--reaching for the moon.  guess I will be going.
sally--!
let's forget it--can't you see i kind of like you, too ... and i do not want to get involved.
you mean that?
do not let's talk about it.
you said it! how about a little action?
how is your mother feeling?
much better--thank you--
how about a little game later?
fine--i'll be glad to.
will you please excuse me? I will be right back.
we will save you a place at our table.
thanks.
I am going to the show--
I will go with you--
oh, chad--what about the rest of the show?
oh,--i was having so much fun i almost forgot--
is not she lovely?
yes--and very popular--
I am all right.
you saw him sitting out there in front, did not you?
i was in his cabin--
what!--are you crazy?
I will explain later--
if he comes near you again, I will break his neck--
care to join us?
no, thanks--i never gambled in my life.
you are lucky--out my way, in montana, there is nothing else to do--
I am going down to my cabin. i have to send a wireless-- see you later.
this is exciting--but if it is been stolen they can not get away with it on a ship--
some of the smartest robberies have taken place aboard ships--
it will be very interesting to see how you go about solving this, inspector--
sorry--but I am on a vacation--
if he lets you down I will try my hand at sleuthing--  bet i could find that bracelet--
i would not be surprised--
i would not worry about it--it'll turn up--  how about a nightcap, inspector?
no, thanks--i'll take a walk around the deck and then turn in--
good night!
did you find it?
no!--did you take that bracelet?
no-o!
where is lother?
go ahead--you did not used to be so fussy--
I have lost my taste for knickknacks--
do not be a mug all your life--i'm trying to help you-- you need me more than i need you--have you figured they might pick the kid up in france and extradite him?
have you ever figured they might extradite you?
I am not so clumsy with fingerprints--
would you like to take a turn around the deck with me?
yes--is it all right if i come like this?
this time I am really glad you showed up.
lonesome?
we will let it go at that--
what happened to you?
you have got a gun, have not you, chad? will you let me have it?
what for?
do not ask any questions--just give it to me.
easy kid--easy....  come on--i want to talk to you.
what, again?
yes--you know what I have been thinking, sally?--
what?--
i think we will live in europe after we are married?
i did not know we were going to be married.
you didn't?--i guess i forgot to tell you--
you are a little ahead of yourself--the usual routine would be for you to propose, and if i accept, then you would give me an engagement ring--
I will give you plenty of rings as soon as i get the stones set--what do you think?
i think we ought to walk.
thought you were going to turn in, inspector.
nervous. could not sleep. feel like a nightcap?
it is getting kind of chilly on deck. if you will excuse me, i think I will go to bed. good night, mr. mckinney!
good night!
good night, mrs. brett!
good night, idiot!
how about you?
no, thanks. I have promised to play cards.
you know what I would do, if i were you--before the card game I would go to the purser's office.
why?
well, someone else besides myself may have seen you in the vicinity of mrs. rosson's cabin this evening--even the stewards in that corridor insisted on being searched. get me?
sure, I will go.
I will go with you.
swell!
it is easy to see the purser has not had much practice.
how about trying your fine italian hand?
this has nothing to do with me--  but always remember, purser, when you are searching anybody, take the lining of their coat, like this--  --run your fingers all along these seams.... then-- back of the collar--here--that used to be a favorite trick--and never forget to put your finger down inside of the shoe--like this.
hey!--you're tickling me.
then we run our hands down a man's arms and legs-- like this--in case they got what you are looking for attached to a string.  see what i mean, purser?
he is certainly good-natured.
"smooth's" the word.
i mean--a lot of gentlemen would be offended if you searched them like that.
it all depends on what you are used to.
well, I will be a son of a sea cook!
what is the matter?
nothin--  --i just remembered the name of a guy that owes me fifty bucks.
you keep it--
me!
sure! mckinney will never suspect you--
say--wait a minute!
see you later, shortie--i'm off to the pool.
hello, young fellow!
coming to the pool for a swim?
nooooo!--going to catch up on my reading.  I will take this one.
hello, inspector--i hear your vacation's been spoiled. somebody lost a bracelet.
yes, a bracelet's been lost, but I am still on my vacation.
i understand you searched brett for it last night. by the way--what do you know about him?
well, I have seen him here and there. what is on your mind?
oh, nothing--only i wondered why you suspected him.
well, I will tell you--we picked him up about a year ago-- but could never pin anything on him.
maybe he just travels in bad company.
yeah--
no--i'm furious!--nobody seems to do anything about it--
why worry? it was insured--how about that swimming lesson i promised you?
i could see you were pining away--
oh, that is mrs. rosson--remember, you met her yesterday?
yes--i remember--
how well do you know her?
just met her on the boat--supposed to play bridge with her yesterday--but she wouldn't--so we played poker instead.
who with?
a mr. summers and a man called lother.
oh, you infant! how much did you lose?
lose?--i won a little--
that was the come-on--promise me you will not play with them again--
what do you know about them?
too much--remember--i warned you about me--  i used to be lee lother's girl--
you can live that down, can not you?
he is a con man--crooked as a tree--and i was part of the racket--helped him!  now--if you have an appointment elsewhere--i'll excuse you!
you can not lose me, sally--i'm no lily myself!
I am beginning to think you are a pretty swell guy.
come on--let's take a swim.
nothin'.
let me look at it.
am not got time.
hey--you! where you going?
i tell yuh i am not got no bracelet--
i saw him take the bracelet out of that shoe.
yer crazy!--i am not got no bracelet.
then why did you run away?
because you ran after me.
come on, get up.  that horse is carrying too much of a load.
who won?
well, you got the first down--there's one more to go. come on, we are ready to start right now. come on. just keep stiff.
i was never stiffer in my life.
all right, folks, get on your mark. when you hear the pistol shot--
would not bet against her.  tell you what i will do--bet you i find that bracelet before we hit france.  not a hundred, though--just fifty.
it is a bet--come on, sally!
nice girl, that--  I would hate to see her get a raw deal.  you know, the great trouble with crooks is they are too smart. now if I would taken that bracelet, I would find some way to slip it back--i'd know i could never get ashore with it.
anybody that is taken the trouble to get it would be a mug to put it back.
could i see you a minute?
sure!  excuse me.
congratulations.
exciting, was not it? where is jimmy?
he will be back.  what would you do if anybody gave you a bracelet?
say, "thanks very much!"
i mean if you knew it were stolen.
well, of course, i would not take it.
and if you liked the person, you would naturally persuade him to give it back and go straight, would not you?
sure i would--but i do not get what you are driving at.
maybe you will after you have thought it over.
well, to tell you the truth, gentlemen, I have sworn off playing poker.
why, you would not quit when you are ahead, would you?
why is not that a good time to quit?
no gentleman would do that.
i agree with you--no gentleman, would--but i would--  --especially when my opponents have taken the precaution of marking the cards.
i thought you were a sucker--
think again--
in that case--you owe us exactly sixteen hundred dollars.
oh, no--i played with your cards--in your cabin--at your suggestion--if you have got a kick coming, make it to the purser.
I am making it to you. if i do not get it by tonight--you'll find it a rough voyage.
that goes two ways.
make it three, boys--i'll play this hand pat.
and I will lay odds you got that bracelet.
I will lay odds you get a pair of 'em--why, a high-school kid could take you saps--and another thing--lay off sally marsh.  --"honest jack"! one look at your mug and the whole world buttons up its pockets.
yes.
very serious?
very--
why--don't you like him?
of course--but--  there is your cue--hurry up--
I will give you another chance to tell the truth, lother.
what do you mean?
why do not you be a good little boy and leave her alone?
oh--i understand you were an important part of her education when she came to new york.
i just tried to show her the difference between the squirrels and the skunks.
meaning what?
you do not shoot squirrels.
i know he is. you change those clothes and then come to my cabin. I will expect you around twelve o'clock.
not a chance--i'm through.
I will change and be with you in ten minutes.
make it five.
seven-fifty. positively my last offer.
I will be waiting on deck.
where did you get it?
lifted it out of a guy's cabin last night.
what did you want a gun for?
stick-up. needed dough to get ashore.
is that why you killed lee lother?
guess again, copper.
get moving--
that is the truth--every single word!
i sincerely hope so--
why should i kill him?
for a very excellent reason from your own admission--  --i'm not saying you did--but i think you know more than you are telling. years of experience have taught me to mistrust circumstantial evidence. nevertheless, in your case there is plenty of it.
thought you might need me--don't talk, kid, and do not let him scare you--
do not be too smart, jimmy--you're out in the rough yourself. you had an argument with lother a couple of hours before he was killed--but I will deal with that later--
yes, yes!
you did not have a gun in your hand last night?
no!
s'pose you have never thought of killing him--
i would not say that--  I am glad he is dead--yes--i'd thought of killing him-- but i didn't--
why?
because i was yellow, i guess--
do not get yourself all worked up--
you keep out of this--  you admit you thought of killing him--how were you going to do it?
i tried to borrow a gun from chad, but--
this is interesting--  why did not you tell me you gave this kid your gun last night?
i didn't--
he asked for a loan of it, did not he?
yes--but i did not give it to him--
is this your gun?
yes!
mmmmmmmmmhm....  now, jimmy, what were you doing in that corridor before the shots were fired?
why, i--
i won't--i'll ask for one right now.  sally tells me she is in love with you.
she did?
yes--but do not ask me why--because i could never tell you. i do not know what most guys want out of life--but that would be enough for me--i would not care about-- easy money--or--showing off my smart brains--i'd just like to live my life so nothing i did would bounce back and ruin hers--do i make myself clear?
very clear. that is one favor I will be glad to do you.
o.k., kid--  I am only sorry for one thing.
what is that?
if you had not agreed--i was going to throw you overboard--
hello, jimmy. what is up?
listen, runt--quick! where is the ice?
why--i--er thought with all this heat turned on I would hide it.
where did you hide it?
on the drunk.
get it!
soon as i get that bracelet back I am going to relax. wish the guy that borrowed it would help me out--i got to win that fifty bucks.
I have got a hunch you are going to win that bet, inspector.
i hope so. well, i guess you two can do without me. I will be seeing you.
I am going to return the bracelet right now and face the consequences.
jimmy!
well, I will be--!!!
what is the matter?
here's your fifty.
thanks. that makes us square.
next time i get a vacation I will spend it at headquarters. good-night.
he is a swell person. he told me he would rather turn one guy straight than jug a million.
oh, mr. denby, i wrote a poem about a bracelet--
good-night, folks.
