clyde, you wait here.  glenn, got a minute?
i had a minute before the mapp hearing -- but i could not get you on the phone, eddie...
yeah, well i had reasonable cause to believe the judge might have heard of the fourth amendment.
no it is not the only issue. there is another issue, for the jury. what about entrapment?
what about entrapment?
we do not prosecute people because in the abstract they might be weak. judge brandeis said it best: entrapment is a "dirty business!"
can not i take a simple piss without --
have not heard that one before, ed.  but i guess I will be hearing it again.
not necessarily...
we have a full caseload, rog.
right, i forgot... we are pledged to protect every mid-level drug dealer in the tri-state area.  it is an awesome responsibility.
i do not venerate drug dealers, roger. to the contrary.
of course.
...through use of informants, eavesdropping, unreasonable search and seizure...!
right. you are right.
damn right I am right.
it is just... i leave behind friends, family, a coupla good job offers in chicago and in three dizzying weeks I have helped acquit a coke dealer, a speed dealer --
i specialize, roger...
-- an angel dust dealer --
I am not a kid anymore, i can not be all over the map --
-- a speed manufacturer --
so go take your job on wall street.
do not tell me where to work. i moved to new york to work for edward dowd. but i can not believe that edward dowd has nothing better to do these days than invoke exalted legal issues to get off guilty little --
hey. you plan to be a criminal defense attorney, know this going in: everybody's guilty.
ten years is a long time.
look -- I am tired, I will see you in the morning, eddie.
where?
ossining correctional facility. sing sing. everybody's innocent there, man... just ask 'em...
kim got busted at 19 for burglary. at 20 he was convicted in the shooting death of a young chinese gang lord... the prosecution claimed kim did it to get into "the joe boys"?
chinatown street gang.
kim denied it. but he admitted the gun was his, and he got life. seems to have been an okay prisoner for eight years, til the... incident with duane lindeman.
-- the nazi he knifed?
my mother find you?
that is right.
figures.
want to tell me what went down here?
racist asshole came at me.
exactly what happened then?
i killed the motherfucker.
...okay...
at the trial, you said you were at your apartment that night. alone.
-- remember?
...so what would we claim? he stabbed duane lindeman in self-defense?
with two knives taped to his hands? forget it, rog.
i feel like I have been mugged... guy scared the shit out of me. you made your point, eddie... I am relieved we are not taking the case.
we are taking the other case.
what other case?
eight years ago. the chinatown hit.
some gang punk gets wasted in front of the tourists. the mayor pressures the cops. the cops pressure the rival gang -- the joe boys. the joes give up shu kai kim -- the schmuck kid from korea who is been pestering 'em to get in.
you really think that is what happened?
i do not know but it makes one hell of an opening statement.
-- easy as that, huh?
easy? no... we have to find some piece of evidence that got buried, to reopen the sucker.
...are you sure we want that?
when did you start working for the goddam d.a.?
eddie... i do not know about this...
eddie... what is a dd-5?
a complaint follow-up form.
-- listen: "november 5, 1980. cecil stipe walked into 5th precinct. says he witnessed chin shooting, saw suspect's picture in post. says shu kai kim wrong man."
"cecil stipe"? have we seen any affadavit with that name?
that dd-5.
what, the lunatic who --
"cecil stipe." find it.
you read eddie's chase manhattan bombing summation in the leftist law anthology?
-- eddie told you?
my skip-trace turned up two cecil stipes. one's in butte, montana. other's at riverhead veterans psychiatric.
I will take odds on cecil number two.
so what did this guy do? snitch off a dealer?
murder witness.
you are doing a murder case?
it has not been that long.
stipe was just one of four eyewitnesses who came forward, kitty. y'oughta start looking for the others...
eddie, I am not working on this case. you boys have fun.
lemme guess. some corporate v.p.'s banging his secretary over lunch and you have to focus your camera and plug in your little tape recorder.
beats getting paid in twenties by slimedogs selling angel dust to high school seniors.
kitty, where exactly do you place the microphone to catch the most incriminating moans?
just which constitutional amendment protects our right to peddle pcp?
forget it. you have blown your chance to participate in this case, kitty.
I am kicking myself, eddie... right out of here.
'lo, cecil.
see-cil.
see-cil. I am eddie dowd, this is roger baron. we are lawyers.
you are a l-lawyer?  i... i have not had my meds, or m-my vital signs t-taken yet. i...
mr. stipe. a young man named jimmy chin was shot to death eight years ago, in chinatown. do you remember talking to the police?
that guy they arrested -- he was the wrong g-guy.
i think what eddie wants to say is --
no! they g-got the wrong guy! i saw it! the killer was not chinese.
oh come on, cecil.
hey, chinese people have this energy field that vibrates at a particular frequency.
cia?
telephone.  i suppose you do not know the phone company killed kennedy because he was trying to b-break it up -- and they will never let that happen. they control everything: what you say in the mouthpiece is never exactly what comes out the other end, and --
the phone company was broken up.
and you b-believe that.
i did two tours in 'nam...
good. now we are going to take an affadavit from you, but only concerning the facts of the chinatown shooting. we honestly do not give a shit about the kennedy assassination.
are you willing to testify that the man you saw shoot jimmy chin was not the man the cops arrested?
they g-got the wrong g-guy.
when the d.a. hears i filed the writ, he will send someone here, maybe claiming to be a journalist. that person will ask you lots of questions. just be truthful, cecil, okay? to all of us?
i always t-tell the truth.  that is why I am here.
...you told the desk sergeant you were certain mr. kim was not the killer?  you left your telephone number?
y-yes, sir.
did the police make any attempt to phone you, to follow up?
no, s-sir.
thank you, mr. stipe.
objection, your honor! the fact that the witness is currently a patient is immaterial!
sustained.
I would l-like to answer the question.
mr. rabin has no right to --
you getting this?
-- every word.
but they have still got laura gordon -- and she was the closest, about 20 feet from the killer.
do you have to do that?
"have to"? no...
start looking into the joe boys -- who assigned the hits in 1980, what rank generally did the hits...  your extensive law enforcement contacts should be of some use.
i was never politically correct enough for comrade dowd.
edward t. dowd.
don reynard.
of course you know dean rabin, one of my assistant d.a.s. dean generally handles nuisance cases like the... what is the man's name?
shu kai kim.
you will not remember this, but in '72 i was one of several prosecutors assigned to the black panther-police shootout.  we had a whole team, and you walked into court by yourself and kicked our collective butt.  so what have you been up to since then?
this and that.
my staff tells me it is been mostly drug pushers... i said that can not be the same edward dowd.
it is in the area of narcotics, mr. reynard, that the government tramples on the fourth amendment.
let's not drag the constitution into this.
I am sorry if I have ruined your day, mr. reynard. but my client's had a rough eight years behind bars and --
your client is guilty. do not dick around with me.
back in the seventies i spent years putting away gangsters in a colombian syndicate called "the ochoa". these guys are very dangerous, ed. when i hear that a small-time dope lawyer is conniving to spring one of these guys, i see red.
I would have that checked, mr. reynard.
now maybe you got this case reopened because you see yourself as a thorn in society's side, or you want to walk into any restaurant in chinatown and get free dumplings...
are you implying that my motives are less than sincere?
yes, but that is not the issue. what is on your wish list, ed? pleading kim out to first degree man on both homicides, with an agreed sentence of 15 to life running concurrent? come on... what are you looking for here?
what am i looking for? you are the one talking deal.
friday's the drop-dead date on the offer.
please do not bullshit me, mr. reynard. you have got witness problems, you have got proof problems...
you are my only problem, ed. what does it take to make you go away?
i see: he would walk out next month.
that is right.
we reconvict, your man's looking at 25 years on two counts, served consecutively. so what I would like to ask, ed, is: are you joking?
i never joke about waiving a client's sixth amendment right to trial.
you are pissing me off again, ed.
you know you are very tense, mr. reynard. y'oughta take a week off, fly the wife and kids to oahu.
i embellished.
"dowd also reports that his team of private investigators..."?
i embroidered.
"...are close to naming the man they believe actually killed jimmy chin"?
i lied.
shoulda told the one about shu being the bastard child of mother theresa.
saving it for the sunday times.
his name is chuckie roeder. but something is very weird.
-- you found his mugshot?
they are just frightened, fucked-up losers that prison fucked up worse.
i did not ask for a closing argument.
there is no one else to talk to. the tattoos were phony!
-- yeah?
so an upstanding member of the aryan warriors would not paint them on. they take those teardrops seriously -- they are badges of courage, of honor. only their most vicious killer elite get to wear them...!
i feel much better now.
hey, clyde gruner sold these guys a pound of crystal meth at cost. we are clyde's buddies, it is cool.  next exit.
an aryan warrior with black teardrops painted on his face.
"painted"?
but why would a guy would do that? paint black teardrops on his face?
i guess he... wanted you to think he was... somebody he wasn't.
but why?
maybe... because someone is afraid.
afraid of what?
i do not know. the truth, maybe.
-- about what?
about chinatown. what went down.
what went down?
you tell me, man.
no. you tell me, shu.
how can i tell you what i do not know!
you can't. so tell me what you do know -- say it!
i do not know shit, man! goddammit --
well i know that you are innocent, shu -- even if you forgot.
no.
"no," what?
but now you have strayed from your area of expertise -- dope -- into street assassins. a subject on which you are dangerously ignorant.
but I am a quick study. tell your deputy d.a. -- rabin? -- that I will see him in court.
no, mr. dowd, you will see me in court. I am prosecuting this case.
I will prosecute anyone who fucks up. if that makes me look racist, it is a trade-off I will live with, ed.
that is big of you, bob.
uh, eddie? the, um, ballistics guy, george...? he called, and...  his tests show that shu's gun fired the bullet that killed jimmy chin.
george is a fucking burnout case. i did not want him on the stand anyway. get more names from billy.
so there goes your theory about the joes giving up shu to protect their trigger man.
but i like that theory. and since I am not putting twerp professor on the stand, and since i do not have a better theory, I am sticking with that theory. meantime i want pictures of the joes. what will you bet there was a guy in the gang looked enough like shu to fool the eyewitnesses!
I have phoned every art supply retailer and wholesaler in the tri-state area. no one's heard of chuckie roeder.
have you considered that chuckie roeder's not calling himself chuckie roeder these days? get his mugshot from one of the many law officers who have got hotpants for you... then canvass those art supplies places. we are going to win this one, kitty, but ya got to believe...
is not it a fact that the "six other asian men" in the line-up were all of the classic mongoloid type, whereas shu has the distinct facial bone structure of a korean?
objection. the witness is not an expert in racial classification.
is not it a standard trick to pack a line-up with men who resemble each other but look different than the suspect, so the suspect will stand out for the eyewitnesses?
argumentative.
exactly what information led you to arrest my client just two-and-a-half hours after the shooting took place?
we had a description of the suspect.
a "description"? what, asian male 18 to 30, black hair, brown eyes?
we had information bearing on mr. kim's desire to gain admission into the joe boys by assassinating a member of a rival gang.
did not this "information" come from the joe boys themselves -- did they not all but hand you shu kai kim, a korean, an outsider?
is not it unusual for a man who is just committed a murder in plain sight to bring the weapon back to his apartment?
calls for speculation.
you are implying that i planted a gun?
not at all --
kim's prints were all over it -- he admitted it was his gun, f'r godsake!
your honor, the witness' response was non-responsive... i ask you to strike it from the record...!
...i'm dying out there.
it is okay, eddie.
a fucking wheelchair?
a spinal injury, in the line of duty. it was in kitty's report...
a fucking wheelchair?
i did not put him in a wheelchair. reynard did. he can get around without one -- it is all in my report.
i do not have time to read every word in every report, I am too busy getting killed in court... meantime my crackerjack investigator can not find the goddam art supplies store where chuckie-fucking-roeder works!
eddie dowd.
roger baron.
you can not come back here... anything happens to you I am liable.
I am a lawyer. the firm is thinking about renovating. everything dates back to the sixties.
i noticed.
do you see a toilet here you think is really me?
look, I am a lawyer and --
-- i do not care who you are. you could have been killed. every man and woman in here has done hard prison time. and we look out for each other.
"we"?
i did five years in attica. lot of cons helped me in the joint. but i never got help from any lawyer... i built this business for guys like me who could not get a break anywhere else. "art's supplies" is for ex- cons. not lawyers.
"art's supplies" is founded on trust, mister --
dowd. eddie dowd.
if you would had the sense to ask for my help, i might have helped you. but you have probably scared chuckie roeder off for good, i have a whole bunch of jumpy employees to handle and you are both going to be on your way. now.
goddam it... the little punk bests me again, i get thrown down and lectured at and where the hell were you?
1530 rivington street.
-- what?
chuckie's address. i sneaked a peek at the rolodex.
you sneaked a peek at the rolodex.  nice.
-- find him?
eddie, these things take time. particularly at this hour...
the joe boys in 1980...!
a number of them are dead, three are in prison, one's a waiter... two -- you will enjoy this -- two are actually members of the chamber of commerce.
i have not thanked you for your work, kitty. you are doing good work.
I am a professional, eddie. getting paid is all the thanks i require.
i have not paid you.
right.
got any booze in the house?
you do not drink "booze".
you do.
eddie, if i wanted to make love with you again, I would do it sober.
eddie this is silly... are we supposed to pretend nothing's happened in the last ten years and --
nothing has. but that is all changing.
so what are we going to do?
...what do you mean?
well, i mean, roeder's gone, now... a dead end. believe me, I am sorry too, but...
but what?
I have heard from the last ballistics expert on the list. it is an even ten who say shu's gun killed jimmy chin!
that is why i hate experts.
eddie... it is one thing to compare clyde gruner to jesus christ. it is even okay to claim that shu kai kim is just slightly holier than the pope... as long as you do not really believe it!
hey -- you believe what you want. shu kai kim is innocent.
-- eddie...
you know how i know? 'cause reynard says he is guilty, and reynard's full of shit! look --
you are carrying that around like it was a picture of your girlfriend!  i do not want to see your heart broken when this case crashes and burns!
that is not going to happen. I am going to create reasonable doubt. buckle your seatbelt and watch me work.
but roeder's dead. ballistics says it is shu! we do not have one witness -- unless we put cecil stipe on the stand...
I am not that desperate.
i am. eddie -- we have got nothing.
I have got a meeting in chinatown.
let's get a cab.
-- roger -- ?
you are the police expert in chinatown gangs?
...for ten years, now.
do you speak cantonese, mandarin, or both?
-- me? neither.
pardon... which dialect do you speak?
neither.
you do not speak any chinese dialects? then you get your intelligence from snitches?
badgering.
they are chinamen who speak english. we call them informants.
and i call your testimony hearsay. i have no more questions for you.
the photo on the left shows the bullet that killed jimmy chin, true?
true.
and the one on the right is the bullet you test-fired from shu's gun?
correct.
you would have the court believe that these two bullets were fired from the same gun?
absolutely.
or this -- is this a significant difference?
no it is not, mr. dowd.
to the best of your recollection, were you sober when you performed the tests?
objection.
forensic ballistics is not an exact science, is it?
it most certainly is.
is not there a ten to fifteen-percent margin of error?
absolutely not. no more than seven percent.
in other words, seven times out of a hundred, you are wrong!
come now. did you see the gun?
i can describe it.
oh really?
it was silver, with a stubby barrel... snub-nosed, i think they call it... it was not automatic, it had one of those... cylinders...
you can not remember that -- !
i can see the hammer still, it was cocked...
how can you remember that?
i did not take my eyes off it!
ah.
not the whole time, of course. i --
no further questions.
your honor, that is trial by ambush!
we just discovered him, your honor! his appearance is critical to a fair presentation of our case! he is an inmate at ossining correctional and --
-- objection, your honor! this case has no connection with any subsequent act my client may be charged with!
the witness will substantiate mr. kim's modus operandi. it is circumstantial evidence in the case at hand!
the witness is recalcitrant, your honor -- i had to personally make a body attachment this morning -- it took two marshalls to drag him here!
the great personal sacrifices endured by mr. reynard have no bearing on the legal issues, your honor -- !
your honor, i know as much about these gangs as anyone; I am well aware of the secrecy in which their machinations are cloaked... i assure you this witness offers the court a rare opportunity to place the defendant's crime --
-- alleged crime --
-- in a context.
i will allow the witness to testify. with the understanding that your questions are confined to the area of mr. kim's modus operandi.
-- with objection!
so noted.
mr. ortega, you have known the defendant at ossining correctional for how long?
i would tend to plead the fifth.
five years.
mr. ortega... what is "la compania"?
a cubano army, basically... inside and outside prisons.
and its purpose?
fighting the aryan warriors and the black guerrillas, basically.
for control of the prison drug trade?
i would tend to plead the fifth.
your honor, that is not fair -- !
complain to the bar commission.
do the rival gangs compete for control of the prison drug trade?
yeah, we do some of that.
what is your rank within la compania?
"name, rank and serial," mr. ortega. let's not hide behind the fifth.
I am a soldado in the g-wing regiment.
and what does a soldado -- a soldier -- do?
a soldado, he runs messages and materiel between the regiments...
"materiel"? what do you mean by that?
cigarettes, candy bars...  pcp, crack...
if a member of the aryan brothers tries to cut in on your distribution?
...a soldado, he takes care of it.
by "takes care of," you mean "kills".
that is right.
mr. ortega, what is shu kai kim's rank within la compania?
soldado.
is not it unusual for an asian to be accepted into a cuban prison gang?
shu's the only one i know of...
and why was an exception made?
chinatown. sounded pretty cold...
you mean to say mr. kim told you that he murdered jimmy chin?
objection.
sustained.
i move that the witness's testimony be stricken. he has clearly been terrorized by the prosecution, he is --
the testimony will remain in the record. do you wish to cross-examine?
it is okay. it was always like that.
should not one of us...?
no -- leave him be. it is better for everyone.
quite a bit you did not tell me.
when i joined up i took an oath of secrecy. i told you what you needed to know.
i did not need to know that a man I am defending on a gang-murder rap is a prison soldier who kills over drugs?
it was self-defense.
jimmy chin? was that self-defense too?
-- how could i help you?
by trusting me. shit, man...
when you leave this place you are going out to dinner or a movie or get laid. where is our bond? I am going back to my cell and wait to die. so tell me: where is our bond?
for awhile we had this dream we were innocent. that was our bond... but then we woke up. and now I would like to hear everything.
what do you want?
I am roger baron. i work with edward dowd.
what were you... why were you at shu's trial this afternoon?
-- what trial?
i followed you here from court.
i knew jimmy chin. the boy who was shot. okay?
...and you were at the trial to... to see that justice was done?
that is right.
then it was your idea to have chuckie roeder scare eddie off the case?
-- why do not you ask chuckie?
chuckie od'd, mrs. esparza. he is dead.
look. mister --
-- roger --
you must not talk to art. you must not tell art that i was at the trial. do you hear me?
eddie... a guilty client's not the end of the world...
exactly!
eddie... go home. get some sleep.
i do not need sleep!
i need sleep. some of us are mere mortals.
screw you too, kitty.
eddie -- it is art esparza!
what is art esparza?
i think he hired shu to kill jimmy chin... it was not a chinatown gang hit -- jimmy chin and art's wife were lovers! she just about told me...!
you phoned up art esparza's wife?
i followed her from the courthouse.
-- what?
I have seen this picture before.
they could have been brothers. it is why the eyewitnesses picked shu.
christ... shu is innocent.
"the killer was not chinese"... cecil stipe was right. .!
everyone else was wrong and the one fucking lunatic was right!
...jesus!
least we would already be at the morgue.
how long did it take badalato to drive jimmy chin's body from chinatown to the morgue?
... an hour.  that is why i thought the morgue was on the other side of town.
ms. vin's sister.
i have to talk to your brother.
the hell you do. at this hour?
gimme back my bottle.
let go of my hair.
i brought it... to the coroner.
an hour after you picked it up!
from chinatown... which is right up the street from the morgue! where did you go with the body? what did you do with it?
please... i need to sleep...
you are fishing. you do not know shit.
i know about esparza.
...we had to lick his boots clean.
he was your snitch.
our own colombian connection... for three years... three years of ball breaking detective work. and we put a lotta bad guys behind bars.
and one good guy.
demerol? what the fuck is your problem, man? you wanna die?
I am dead. we are both dead.
do not hurt him.
where is the nearest hospital?
bellevue. straight up first --
...where're we goin'?
that-a-boy. hospital.
i don' need a hospital... i feel fine.
too fine, badalato. the bad news is, you are going to live.
what, "everything"? you shot a corpse. i do not give a shit about that -- !
let's snuff this lowlife!
hey -- the fact you popped jimmy chin in broad daylight proves it was not premeditated. jury'll sympathize -- dude was banging your wife, right?
shut your sewer mouth!
you see that? you wanna be like that?
no. no...
you fucking swear to shut up!
good morning, mr. dowd. do you think you might be up to cross-examining mr. ortega this morning?
your honor: i imagine that, no matter how careful my questioning, mr. ortega would, in his well-intentioned way, dig my client's hole even deeper.
well then, does the defense have any witnesses?
i suppose i could find an inmate who would say that shu boasted about chinatown just to survive in the joint -- though he did not really do it...
-- then you do not wish to call any witnesses, mr. dowd?
i would like to put shu's alleged crime in a context, your honor. and we do have the foremost expert on prison and street gangs right here in this room... if it please the court, I would like to call mr. reynard.
-- can not mr. dowd find his own expert witness, your honor?
I would need a continuance. three weeks at least.
yes, mr. dowd.
did not this investigation, with its attendant publicity, catapult you into the office you now hold?
if i were sitting where i normally sit, i would say "calls for speculation."
did you do any hands-on work or did you just supervise, from on high?
mr. dowd, i was personally involved with all phases -- and principals -- of the investigation.
and who were the detectives who assisted you, mr. reynard?
lou sklaroff, vin badalato, dave montell.
the same three detectives on the jimmy chin case.
in those days, they often worked as a team.
and who was arturo esparza?
i do not think i know that name.
-- but you just said you were personally involved with all the principals of the investigation.
i can not be expected to remember the name of every informant eight years after the fact.
i did not say he was an informant. but since you mentioned it, was not esparza your primary informant?
you are trespassing into the area of witness protection, mr. dowd. such showboating puts lives at risk.
is not it true that without esparza, you had no investigation?
i think you are a dangerous man, mr. dowd.
i hope so, mr. reynard.
no.
no? then what did he say?
