I would fuck elvis.
really?
when he was alive. i would not fuck him now.
i do not blame you.  so we would both fuck elvis. it is nice to meet people with common interests, is not it?
well, enough about the king, how 'bout you?
how 'bout me what?
how 'bout you go to the movies with me tonight?
what are we gonna see?
a donny chiba triple feature. "the streetfighter", "return of the streetfighter", and "sister streetfighter".
who is sonny chiba?
he is, bar none, the greatest actor working in martial arts movies ever.
you wanna take me to a kung fu movie?
three kung fu movies.
nigger, get outta my face with that bullshit.
naw man, i do not be eatin' that shit.
that is bullshit.
naw man, that is some serious shit.
nigger, you lie like a big dog.
what the fuck are you talkin' about?
floyd say he do not be eatin' pussy.
shit, any nigger say he do not eat pussy is lyin' his ass off.
i heard that.
hold on a second, big d. you sayin' you eat pussy?
nigger, i eat everything. i eat pussy. i eat the butt. i eat every motherfuckin' thang.
preach on, big d.
look here. if i ever did eat some pussy - i would never eat any pussy - but, if i did eat some pussy, i sure as hell would not tell no goddamn body. I would be ashamed as a motherfucker.
shit! nigger you smoke enough sherm your dumb ass'll do a lot a crazy ass things. so you will not eat pussy? motherfucker, you be up there suckin' niggers'        dicks.
heard that.
yeah, that is right, laugh. it is so funny, oh it is so funny.  there used to be a time when sisters did not know shit about gettin' their pussy licked. then the sixties came an' they started fuckin' around with white boys. and white boys are freaks for that shit -
- because it is good!
then, after a while sisters use to gettin' their little pussy eat. and because you white boys had to make pigs out of yourselves, you fucked it up for every nigger in the world everywhere.
go on pussy-eaters... laugh. you look like you be eatin' pussy. you got pussy-eatin' mugs. now if a nigger wants to get his dick sucked he is got to do a bunch of fucked-up shit.
so you do eat pussy!
naw naw!
you do not like it, but you eat that shit.  he eats it.
damn skippy. he like it, too.
me thinketh he doth protest too much.
well fuck you guys then! you guys are fucked up!
why you trippin'? we jus' fuckin' with ya. but i wanna ask you a question. you with some fine bitch, i mean a brick shithouse bitch - you are with jayne kennedy. you are with jayne kennedy and you say "bitch, suck my dick!" and then jayne kennedy says, "first things first, nigger, i am not suckin' shit till you bring your ass over here and lick my bush!" now, what do you say?
i tell jayne kennedy, "suck my dick or I will beat your ass!"
nigger, get real. you touch jayne kennedy she will have you ass in wayne county so fast -
nigger, back off, you am not beatin' shit. now what would you do.
am not no man have to eat pussy!
take that shit somewhere else.
you tell jayne kennedy to fuck it?
if it came down to who eats who, damn skippy.
with that terrible mug of yours if jayne kennedy told you to eat her pussy, kiss her ass, lick her feet, chow on her shit, and suck her dog's dick, nigger, you would aim to please.
I am hip.
in fact, I am going to show you what i mean with a little demonstration. big d, toss me that shotgun.
i think there is a seven-up in there.
anything stronger?  oh, probably not. beer? you can drink beer, can not you?
i can, but i don't.
that is about all i ever eat.
go to the liquor store -  where is there a liquor store around here?
uh, yeah... there is a party store down 54th.
get a six-pack of something imported. it is hard to tell you what to get 'cause different places have different things. if they got fosters, get that, if not, ask the guy at the thing what the strongest imported beer he has. look, since you are making a beer run, would you mind too terribly if you did a foot run as well. I am fuckin' starvin' to death. are you hungry too?
I am pretty hungry. when i went to the store i was going to get some ding-dongs.
well, fuck that shit, we will get some real food. what would taste good.  what do you think would taste good?
I am really not very -
you know what would taste good? chicken. i have not had chicken in a while. chicken would really hit the spot about now. chicken and beer, definitly, absolutely, without a doubt.  where is a good chicken place around here?
i really do not know.
you do not know the chicken places around where you live?  ask the guy at the place where a chicken place is.
this should cover it, auggie-doggie.
okee-dokee, doggie-daddy.
is not she the sweetest goddamned girl you ever saw in your whole life? is she a four alarm fire, or what?
she seems very nice.
daddy. nice is not the word. nice is an insult. she is a peach. that is the only word for it, she is a peach. she even tastes like a peach. you can tell I am in love with her. you can tell by my face, can not ya? it is a dead giveaway. it is written all over it. ya know what? she loves me back. take a seat, pop, we got to talk -
clarence, just shut up, you are giving me a headache! i can not believe how much like your mother you are. you are your fuckin' mother through and through. i have not heard from ya in three years. then ya show up all of a sudden at eight of the clock in the morning. you walk in like a goddamn bulldozer... do not get me wrong, I am happy to see you... just slow it down. now, when did you get married?
daddy, I am in big fuckin' trouble and i really need your help.
I am me... i mean, that is me.
step inside.
well, the part you are reading for is one of the bad guys. there is brian and marty. peter breck's already been cast as brian. and you are reading for the part of marty. now in this scene you are both in a car and bill shatner's hanging on the hood.  and what you are trying to do is get him off.  whenever you are ready.
where did you come from?
i do not know. he just appeared as magic.
well, do not just sit there, shoot him.
that was very good.
thank you.
if we decided on making him a new york type, could you do that?
sure. no problem.
could we try it now?
absolutely.
where did he come from?
i do not know. he just appeared as magic.
well, do not just sit there, shoot him.
look, i do not know this is pretty heavy-duty, so if you wanna explode, feel free.
you are always making jokes. that is what you do, is not it? make jokes. making jokes is the one thing you are good at, is not it? but if you make a joke about this -  - I am going to go completely out of my fuckin' head!
what do you want from me?
what?
stop acting like an infant. you are here because you want me to help you in some way. what do you need from me? you need money?
do you still have friends on the force?
yes, i still have friends on the force.
could you find out if they know anythin'? i do not know they know shit about us. but i do not wanna think, i wanna know. you could find out for sure what is goin' on.  daddy?
what makes you think i could do that?
you were a cop.
what makes you think i would do that?
I am your son.
you got it all worked out, do not you?
look, goddamnit, i never asked you for a goddamn thing! I have tried to make your parental obligation as easy as possible. after mom divorced you, did i ask you for anything? when i would not see ya for six months to a year at a time, did you ever get your shit about it? no, it was always "ok", "no problem", "you're a busy guy, i understand". the whole time you were a drunk, did i ever point my finger at you and talk shit? no! everybody else did. i never did. you see, i know that you are just a bad parent. you are not really very good at it. but i know you love me. I am basically a pretty resourceful guy. if i did not really need it i would not ask. and if you say no, do not worry about it. I am gone. no problems.
the forager's back.
thank god. i could eat a horse if you slap enough catsup on it.
i did not get any chicken.
how come?
it is nine of the clock in the morning. nothing's open.
it is about that pimp that was shot a couple of days ago, drexl spivey.
what about him?
well, ted, to tell you the truth, i found out through the grapevine that it might be, and i only said might be, the drexl spivey that was responsible for that restaurant break-in on riverdale.
are you still working security for foster & langley?
yeah, and the restaurant's on my route. and you know, i stuck my nose in for the company to try to put a stop to some of these break-ins. now, while i have no proof, the name drexl spivey kept comin' up who is case is it?
mcteague.
i do not know him. is he a nice guy? you think he will help me out?
i do not see why not. when you going to come round and see my new place?
you and robin moved?
shit, are you behind. me and robin got a divorce six months ago. got myself a new place - mirrors all over the bedroom, ceiling fans above the bed. guy'd have to look as ugly as king kong not to get laid in this place. I am serious, a guy'd have to look like a gorilla.
they have nothing. in fact, they think it is drug related.
do tell. why drug related?
apparently, drexl had a big toe stuck in shit like that.
no shit?
yeah. drexl had an association with a fella named blue lou boyle. name mean anything to you?
nope.
if you do not hang around in this circle, no reason it should.
who is he?
gangster. drug dealer. somebody you do not want on your ass. look, clarence, the more i hear about this drexl fucker, the more i think you did the right thing. that guy was not just some wild flake.
that is what I have been tellin' ya. the guy was like a mad dog. so the cops are not looking for me?
naw, until they hear something better they will assume drexl and blue lou had a falling out. so, once you leave twon, i would not worry about it.
thanks a lot, daddy. you really came through for me.
i got some money i can give you -
keep it.
well, son, i want you to know i hope everything works out with you and alabama. i like her. i think you make a cute couple.
we do make a cute couple, do not we?
yeah, well, just stay outta trouble. remeber, you got a wife to think about. quit fuckin' around.  i love you son.
bye, daddy! hope to see you again real soon.
what kind of daughterly smackeroo was that?
oh, hush up.
clarence?
you got it.
it is great to hear from you.
well, you are going to be seein' me shortly.
you comin' to l.a.? when?
tomorrow.
what is up? why are leavin' detroit?
well, there is a story behind all that. I will tell you when i see you. by the way, i will not be alone. I am bringing my wife with me.
get the fuck outta here!
I am a married man.
get the fuck outta here!
believe it or not, i actually tricked a girl into falling in love with me. I am not quite sure how i did it. I would hate to have to do it again. but i did it. wanna say hi to my better half?
hi, dick. I am alabama worley.
hello, alabama.
i can not wait to meet you. clarence told me all about you. he said you were his best friend. so, i guess that makes you my best friend, too.
tell him we gotta go.
clarence says we got to be hittin' it.
what?
tell him we will be hittin' his area some time tomorrow.
he said do not go nowhere. we will be there some time tomorrow.
wait a minute -
tell him not to eat anything. we are going to scarf when we get there.
do not eat anything.
alabama, could you tell clar -
ask him if he got the letter.
did you get the letter?
what letter?
what letter?
the letter i sent.
the letter he sent.
clarence sent a letter?
has he gotten his mail today?
gotten your mail yet?
yeah, my room-mate leaves it on the tv.
yes.
has he looked through it yet?
ya looked through it?
not yet.
nope.
tell him to look through it.
get it.
let me speak to clarence.
he wants to speak with you.
no time. gotta go. just tell him to read the letter, the letter explains all. tell him i love him. and tell him, as of tomorrow, all his money problems are over.
he can't. we got to go, but he wants you to read the letter. the letter explains it all. he wants you to know he loves you. and he wants you to know that as of tomorrow, all of your money problems are over.
money problems?
now tell him goodbye.
bye-bye.
now hang up.
do you know who i am, mr. worley?
i give up. who are you?
I am the anti-christ. you get me in a vendetta kind of mood, you will tell the angels in heaven that you had never seen pure evil so singularly personified as you did in the face of the man who killed you. my name is vincenzo coccotti. i work as a counsel for mr. blue lou boyle, the man your son stole from. i hear you were once a cop so i assume you have heard od us before. am i correct?
I have heard of blue lou boyle.
I am glad. hopefully that will clear up the how-full-of-shit-i-am question you have been asking yourself. now, we are going to have a little q and a, and, at the risk of sounding redundant, please make your answers genuine.  want a chesterfield?
no.
i have a son of my own. about you boy's age. i can imagine how painful this must be for you. but clarence and that bitch-whore girlfriend of his brought this all on themselves. and i implore you not to go down the road with 'em. you can always take comfort in the fact that you never had a choice.
look, I would help ya if i could, but i have not seen clarence -
I have seen him.
now i can not be sure of how much of what he told you. so in the chance you are in the dark about some of this, let me shed some light. that whore your boy hangs around with, her pimp is an associate of mine, and i do not just mean pimpin', in other affairs he works for me in a courier capacity. well, apparently, that dirty little whore found out when we are going to do some business, 'cause your son, the cowboy and his flame, came in the room blastin' and did not stop till they were pretty sure everybody was dead.
what are you talkin' about?
I am talkin' about a massacre. they snatched my narcotics and hightailed it outta there. wouldda gotten away with it, but your son, fuckhead that he is, left his driver's license in a dead guy's hand. a whore hiding in the commode filled in all the blanks.
i do not believe you.
that is of minor importance. but what is of major fuckin' importance is that i believe you. where did they go?
on their honeymoon.
I am gettin' angry askin' the same question a second time. where did they go?
they did not tell me.
could i have one of those chesterfields now?
sure.
oh, do not bother. i got one.  so you are a sicilian, huh?
uh-huh.
you know i read a lot. especially things that have to do with history. i find that shit fascinating. in fact, i do not know if you know this or not, sicilians were spawned by niggers.
come again?
it is a fact. sicilians have nigger blood pumpin' through their hearts. if you do not believe me, look it up. you see, hundreds and hundreds of years ago the moors conquered sicily. and moors are niggers. way back then, sicilians were like the wops in northern italy. blond hair, blue eyes. but, once the moors moved in there, they changed the whole country. they did so much fuckin' with the sicilian women, they changed the blood-line for ever, from blond hair and blue eyes to black hair and dark skin. i find it absolutely amazing to think that to this day, hundreds of years later, sicilians still carry that nigger gene. I am just quotin' history. it is a fact. it is written. your ancestors were niggers. your great, great, great, great, great-grandmother was fucked by a nigger, and had a half-nigger kid. that is a fact. now tell me, am i lyin'?
... when my mom went into labor, my dad panicked. he never had a kid before, and crashed the car. now, picture this: their car's demolished, crowd is starting to gather, my mom is yelling, going into contractions, and my dad, who was losing it before, is now completely screaming yellow zonkers. then, out of nowhere, as if from thin air, this big giant bus appears, and the bus-driver says, "get her in here.". he forgot all about his route and just drove straight to the hospital. so, because he was such a nice guy, they wanted to name the baby after him, as a sign of gratitude. well, his name was waldo, and no matter how grateful they were, even if i'da been a boy, they would't call me waldo. so they asked waldo where he was from. and, so there you go.
and here we are.
that is a pretty amazing story.
well, she is a pretty amazing girl. what are women like out here?
just like in detroit, only skinnier.
you goin' out?
well, for the past couple of years I have been goin' out with girls from my acting class.
good for you.
what is so fuckin' good about it? actresses are the most fucked-in-the-head bunch of women in the world. it is like they got to pass a test of emotional instability before they can get their sag card. oh, guess what? i had a really good reading for "t.j. hooker" the other day.
you are going to be on "t.j. hooker"?
knock wood.
... formica. i did real well. i think she liked me.
did you meet captain kirk?
you do not meet him in the audition. that comes later. hope, hope.
that was so good i am gonna have another.
you can not have just one.
how much of that letter was on the up and up?
every word of it.
you are really in love, are not you?
for the very first time in my life.  do you know what that is like?
oh, look what happened. oh god, I am so sorry. are you ok?
yeah. I am fine. it did not hurt.
I am the clumsiest person in the world.
it is ok. do not worry about it. accidents happen.
what a wonderful philosophy. thanks for being such a sweetheart. you could have been a real dick.
not at all. i, this guy here, he is sonny chiba.
the oriental.
the oriental in black. he is an assasin. now, at the beginning he was hired to kill this guy the cops had. so he got himself arrested. they take him into the police station. and he starts kickin' all the cops' asses. now, while keepin' them at bay, he finds the guy he was supposed to kill. does a number on him. kicks the cops' asses some more. kicks the bars out of the window. and jumps out into a getaway car that was waiting for him.
want some goobers?
thanks a lot.
i thought sonny was the good guy.
he am not so much good guy as he is just a bad motherfucker. sonny do not be bullshittin'. he fucks dudes up for life. hold on, a fight scene's coming up.
great movie. action-packed!
does sonny kick ass or does sonny kick ass?
sonny kicks ass.
you shoulda saw the first original uncut version of the "streetfighter". it was the only movie up to that time rated x for violence. but we just saw the r.
if that was the r, I would love to see the x.
my name is clarence, and what is yours?
alabama whitman. pleased to meet ya.
is that your real name? really?
that is my real name, really. i got proof. see.
where is your car? I will walk you to it.
i took a cab.
you took a cab to see three kung fu movies?
sure. why not?
nothing. it is just you are a girl after my own heart.
what time is it?
'bout twelve.
i suppose you gotta get up early, huh?
no. not particularly.  how come?
well, it is just when i see a really good movie i really like to go out and get some pie, and talk about it. it is sort of tradition. do you like to eat pie after you have seen a good movie?
i love to get pie after a movie.
would you like to get some pie?
I would love some pie.
well, enough about the king. how about you?
how 'bout me what?
tell me about yourself.
there is nothing to tell.
c'mon. what are ya tryin' to be? the phantom lady?
what do you want to know?
well, for starters, what do you do? where are ya from? what is your favorite color? who is your favorite movie star? what kinda music do you like? what are your turn-ons and turn-offs? do you have a fella? what is the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone? and, in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
ask me them again. one by one.
what do you do?
i do not remember.
where are you from.
might be from tallahassee. but I am not sure yet.
what is your favorite color?
i do not remember. but off the top of my head, I would say black.
what is your favorite movie star?
burt reynolds.
would you like a bite of my pie?
yes, i would.
like it?
very much. now, where were we?
what kinda music do you like?
phil spector. girl group stuff. you know, like "he's a rebel".
what are your turn-ons?
mickey rourke, somebody who can appreciate the finer things in life, like elvis's voice, good kung fu, and a tasty piece of pie.
turn-offs?
I am sure there must be something, but i do not really remember. the only thing that comes to mind are persians.
do you have a fella?
I am not sure yet. ask me again later.
what is the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone?
apparently, i was hit on the head with something really heavy, giving me a form of amnesia. when i came to, i did not know who i was, where i was, or where i came from. luckily, i had my driver's license or i would not even know my name. i hoped it would tell me where i lived but it had a tallahassee address on it, and i stopped somebody on the street and they told me i was in detroit. so that was no help. but i did have some money on me, so i hopped in a cab until i saw somethin' that looked familiar. for some reason, and do not ask me why, that theater looked familiar. so i told him to stop and i got out.
and in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
because you looked like a nice guy, and i was a little scared. and i sure couldda used a nice guy about that time, so i spilled my popcorn on you.
wow. what a swell place to work.
yeah, i got the key, so i come here at night, hang out, read comic books, play music.
how long have you worked here?
almost four years.
that is a long time.
I am hip. but you know, I am comfortable here. it is easy work. i know what I am doing. everybody who works here is my buddy. I am friendly with most of the customers. i just hang around and talk about comic books all day.
do you get paid a lot?
that is where trouble comes into paradise. but the boss let's you borrow some money if you need it. wanna see what "spiderman" number one looks like?
you bet. how much is that worth?
four hundred bucks.
i did not even know they had stores that just sold comic books.
well, we sell other things too. cool stuff. "man from u.n.c.l.e." lunch boxes. "green hornet" board games. shit like that. but comic books are main business. there is a lot of collectors around here.
what is that?
that is a "rookies" doll. george sanford brown. we got to lotta dolls. they are real cool. did you know they came out with dolls for all the actors in "the black hole"? i always found it funny somewhere there is a kid playin' with a little figure of earnest borgnine.
god, spiderman looks different.
he was just born, remember? this is the first one. you know that guy, dr. gene scott? he said that the story of spiderman is the story of christ, just disguised. well, i thought about that even before i heard him say it. hold on, let me show you my favorite comic book cover of all time.
oooooh, you look so cute in your little cowboy outfit. how old were you then?
five.
oh, you look so cute as little elvis.
i finally knew what i wanted when i grew up.
you know when you sat behind me?
at the movies?
uh-huh, i was tryin' to think of somethin' to say to you, then i thought, she does not want me bothering her.
what would make you think that?
i dunno. i guess I am just stupid.
you are not stupid. just wrong.
i love janis.
you know, a lot of people have misconceptions of how she died.
she od'd, did not she?
yeah, she od'd. but was not on her last legs or anythin'. she did not take too much. it should not have killed her. there was somethin' wrong with what she took.
you mean she got a bad batch?
that is what happened. in fact, when she died, it was considered to be the happiest time of her life. she would been fucked over so much by men she did not trust them. she was havin' this relationship with this guy and he asked her to marry him. now, other people had asked to marry her before, but she could not be sure whether they really loved her or were just after her money. so, she said no. and the guy says, "look, i really love you, and i wanna prove it. so have your lawyers draw up a paper that says no matter what happens, i can never get any of your money, and I will sign it." so she did, and he asked her, and she said yes. and once they were engaged he told her a secret about himself that she never knew: he was a millionaire.
so he really loved her?
uh-huh.
what is wrong, sweetheart? did i do something? what did i do?
you did not do nothing.
did you hurt yourself?  whatd'ya do? step on a thumbtack?
clarence, I have got something to tell you. i did not just happen to be at the theater. i was paid to be there.
what are you, a theater checker? you check up on the box office girls. make sure they are not rippin' the place off.
I am not a theater checker. I am a call girl.
you are a whore?
I am a call girl. there is a difference, ya know.  i do not know. maybe there is not. that place you took me to last night, that comic book place.
"heroes for sale"?
yeah, that one. somebody who works there arranged to have me meet you.
who?
i do not know. i did not talk with them. the plan was for me to bump into you, pick you up, spend the night, and skip out after you fell asleep. i was going to write you a note and say that this was my last day in america. that i was leaving on a plane this morning up to ukraine to marry a rich millionaire, and thank you for making my last day in america my best day.
that dazzling imagination.
it is over on the tv. all it says is: "dear clarence." i could not write anymore. i did not not want to ever see you again. in fact, it is stupid not to ever see you again. las night... i do not know... i felt... i had not had that much fun since girl scouts. so i just said, "alabama, come clean, let him know what is what, and if he tells you to go fuck yourself then go back to drexl and fuck yourself."
who and what is a drexl?
my pimp.
you have a pimp?
uh-huh.
a real live pimp?
uh-huh.
is he black?
he thinks he is. he says his mother was apache, but i suspect he is lying.
is he nice?
well, i would not go so far as to call him nice, but he is treated me pretty decent. but I have only been there about four days. he got a little rough with arlene the other day.
what did he do to arlene?
slapped her around a little. punched her in the stomch. it was pretty scary.
this motherfucker sounds charming!
goddamn it, alabama, you got to get the fuck outta there! how much longer before he is slappin' you around? punchin' you in the stomach? how the fuck did you get hooked up with a douche-bag like this in the first place?
at the bus station. he said I would be a perfect call girl. and that he knew an agency in california that, on his recommendation, would handle me. they have a very exclusive clientele: movie stars, big businessmen, total white-collar. and all the girls in the agency get a grand a night. at least five hundred. they drive porsches, live in condos, have stockbrokers, carry beepers, you know, like nancy allen in "dressed to kill". and when i was ready he would call 'em, give me a plane ticket, and send me on my way. he says he makes a nice finder's fee for finding them hot prospects. but no one's going to pay a grand a night for a girl who does not know whether to shit or wind her watch. so what I am doin' for drexl now is just sorta learnin' the ropes. it seemed like a lotta fun, but i do not really like it much, till last night. you were only my third trick, but you did not feel like a trick. since it was a secret, i just pretended i was on a date. an, um, i guess i want a second date.
thank you. i wanna see you again too. and again, and again, and again. bama, i know we have not known each other long, but my parents went together all throughout high school, and they still got a divorce. so, fuck it, you wanna marry me?
what?
will you be my wife?
yes.
you will?
you better not be fucking teasing me.
you better not be fuckin' teasin' me.
did ya ever see "the chinese professionals"?
i do not believe so.
well, that is the one that explains how jimmy wang yu became the incredible one-armed boxer.
i do.
thank you.
hello, mrs. worley.
how do you do, mr. worley?
top o' the morning, mrs. worley.
bottom of the ninth . mr. worley. oh, by the by, mr. worley, have you seen your lovely wife today?
oh, you are speaking of my charming wife mrs. alabama worley.
of course. are there others, mr. worley?
no no no no no no no no no...
yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes...
where you goin', honey?
i just got to get somethin'.
what?
can you live with it?
live with what?
with that son-of-a-bitch walkin' around breathin' the same air as you? and gettin' away with it every day. are you haunted?
yeah.
you wanna get unhaunted?
yeah.
then shoot 'em. shoot 'em in the face. and feed that boy to the dogs.
i can not believe what you are tellin' me.
i am not tellin' ya nothin'. I am just sayin' what I would do.
you would really do that?
he do not got no right to live.
look, elvis, he is hauntin' me. he does not deserve to live. and i do want to kill him. but i do not wanna go to jail for the rest of my life.
i do not blame you.
if i thought i could get away with it -
killin' 'em's the hard part. gettin' away with it is the easy part. whaddaya think the cops do when a pimp's killed? burn the midnight oil tryin' to find who done it? they could not give a flyin' fuck if all the pimps in the whole wide world took two in the back of the fuckin' head. if you do not get caught at the scene with the smokin' gun in your hand, you got away with it.
sweetheart, write down your former address.
what?
write down drexl's address.
why?
so i can go over there and pick up your things.
no, clarence. just forget it, babe. i just wanna disappear from there.
look, sweetheart, he scares you. but I am not scared of that motherfucker. he can not touch you now. you are completely out of his reach. he poses absolutely no threat to us. so, if he does not matter, which he doesn't, it would be stupid to lose your things, now would not it?
you do not know him -
you do not know me. not when it comes to shit like this. i have to do this. i need for you to know you can count on me to protect you. now write down the address.
where the fuck is that bitch?
she is with me.
who the fuck are you?
I am her husband.
well. that makes us practically related. bring your ass on in.
what was i sayin'?
rock whores.
you am not seen nothin' like these rock whores. they ass be young man. they got that fine young pussy. bitches want the rock they be a freak for you. they give you hips, lips, and fingertips.
looky here, you want the bitches to really fly high, make your rocks with cherry seven-up.
pussy love pink rocks.
grab a seat there, boy. want some dinner? grab yourself an egg roll. we got everything here from a diddle-eyed-joe to a damned-if-i-know.
no thanks.
no thanks? what does that mean? means you ate before you came down here? all full. is that it? naw, i do not think so. i think you are too scared to be eatin'. now, see we are sittin' down here, ready to negotiate, and you have already given up your shit. I am still a mystery to you. but i know exactly where your ass is comin' from. see, if i asked you if you wanted some dinner and you grabbed an egg roll and started to chow down, I would say to myself, "this motherfucker's carryin' on like he am not got a care in the world. who know? maybe he don't. maybe this fool's such a bad motherfucker, he do not got to worry about nothin', he just sit down, eat my chinese, watch my tv." see? you am not even sat down yet. on that tv there, since you been in the room, is a woman with her titties hangin' out, and you am not even bothered to look. you just been starin' at me. now, i know I am pretty, but i am not as pretty as a couple of titties.
you ok? that stupid dumb-ass did not break your nose, did he?
naw. it do not feel too good but it is alright.
you see what you get when you fuck wit me, white boy? you are going to walk in my goddamn house, my house! going to come in here and tell me! talkin' smack, in my house, in front of my employees. shit! your ass must be crazy.  i do not think that white boy's got good sense. hey, marty.  he must of thought it was white boy day. it am not white boy day, is it?
naw, man, it am not white boy day.
shit, man, you done fucked up again. next time you bogart your way into a nigger's crib, an' get all his face, make sure you do it on white boy day.
wannabee nigger...
fuck you! my mother was apache.
I will keep lover boy here entertained.  you know the first thing I will do when she gets here. i think I will make her suck my dick, and I will come all in her face. i mean it am not nuttin' new. she is done it before. but i want you as a audience.  marty, what the fuck are you doin'?
I am tryin' to find my jacket.
look in the hamper. linda's been dumpin' everybody's stray clothes there lately.
was it him or you?
yeah. but to be honest, i put myself in that position. when i drove up there i said to myself, "if i can kill 'em and get away with it, I will do it." i could. so i did.
is this a joke?
no joke. this is probably the best hamburger I have ever had. I am serious, I have never had a hamburger taste this good.
i think what you did was...
what?
i think what you did...
what?
... was so romantic.
holy mary, mother of god.
this is great, we got cable.
this shit can not be real.
it will get ya high.
do you want some wine, sweetheart?
nope. I am not really a wine gal.
it is fuckin' real!  it is fuckin' real!
i certainly hope so.
you have got a helluva lotta coke there, man!
i know.
do you have any idea how much fuckin' coke you got?
tell me.
i do not know! a fuckin' lot!
this is drexl's coke?
drexl's dead. this is clarence's coke and clarence can do whatever he wants with it. and what clarence wants to do is sell it. then me and bama are going to leave on a jet plane and spend the rest of our lives spendin'. so, you got my letter, have you lined up any buyers?
look, clarence, I am not joe cocaine.
but you are an actor. i hear these hollywood guys have it delivered to the set.
yeah, they do. and maybe when i start being a successful actor I will know those guys. but most of the people i know are like me. they am not got a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. now, if you want to sell a little bit at a time -
no way! the whole enchilada in one shot.
do you have any idea how difficult that is going to be?
I am offering a half a million dollars worth of white for two hundred thousand. how difficult can that be?
it is difficult because you are sellin' it to a particular group. big shots. fat cats. guys who can use that kind of quantity. guys who can afford two hundred thousand. basically, guys i do not know. you do not know. and, more important, they do not know you. i did talk with one guy who could possibly help you.
is he big league?
he is nothing. he is in my acting class. but he works as an assistant to a very powerful movie producer named lee donowitz. i thought donowitz could be interested in a deal like this. he could use it. he could afford it.
what'd'ya tell 'em?
hardly anything. i was not sure from your letter what was bullshit, and what wasn't.
what is this acting class guy's name?
elliot.
elliot what?
elliot blitzer.
ok, call 'im up and arrange a meeting, so we can get through all the getting to know you stuff.
where?
the zoo.
the zoo.  what are you waiting for?
would you just shut up a minute and let me think?
what is to think about?
shut up! first you come waltzing into my life after two years. you are married. you killed a guy.
two guys.
two guys. now you want me to help you with some big drug deal. fuck, clarence, you killed somebody and you are blowin' it off like it do not mean shit.
do not expect me to be all broken up over poor drexl. i think he was a fuckin', freeloadin', parasitic scumbag, and he got exactly what he deserved. i got no pity for a mad dog like that. i think i should get a merit badge or somethin'.
so you guys got five hundred thousand dollars worth of cola that you are unloading -
want an animal cracker?
yeah, ok.
leave the gorillas.
- that you are unloading for two hundred thousand dollars -
unloading? that is a helluva way to describe the bargain of a lifetime.
i grow it on my window-sill. the lights really great there and I am up high enough so you can not see it from the street.
ha ha ha. no really, where does it come from?
coco leaves. you see, they take the leaves and mash it down until it is kind of a paste -
look, dick, i do not -
no problem, elliot. I am just fuckin' wit ya, that is all. actually, I will tell you but you got to keep it quiet. understand, if dick did not assure me you are good people I would just tell ya, none of your fuckin' business. but, as a sign of good faith, here it goes: i got to friend in the department.
what department?
what do you think, eightball?
the police department?
duh. what else would i be talking about? now stop askin' stupid doorknob questions. well, a year and a half ago, this friend of mine got access to the evidence room for an hour. he snagged this coke. but, he is a good cop with a wife and a kid, so he sat on it for a year and a half until he found a guy he could trust.
he trusts you?
we were in four h together. we have known each other since childhood. so, I am handling the sales part. he is my silent partner and he knows if i get fucked up, i will not drop dime on him. i did not tell you nothin' and you did not hear nothin'.
sure. i did not hear anything.
what?
do i look like a beautiful blond with big tits and an ass that tastes like french vanilla ice-cream?
no. no, you don't.
then why are you telling me all this bullshit just so you can fuck me?
clarence...
let me handle this.
get it straight, lee is not into taking risks. he deals with a couple of guys, and he is been dealing with them for years. they are reliable. they are dependable. and, they are safe.
riddle me this, batman. if you are all so much in love with each other, what the fuck are you doing here? I am sure you got better things to do with your time than walk around in circles starin' up a panther's ass. your guy's interested because with that much shit at his fingertips he can play joe fuckin' hollywood till the wheels come off. he can sell it, he can snort it, he can play santa claus with it. at the price he is payin', he will be everybody's best friend. and, you know, that is what we are talkin' about here. I am not puttin' him down. hey, let him run wild. have a ball, it is his money. but, do not expect me to hang around forever waitin' for you guys to grow some guts.
hello, is dick ritchie here?
naw, he am not home right now.
do you live here?
yeah, i live here.
sorta room-mates?
exactly room-mates.
maybe you can help me. actually, who I am looking for is a friend of ours from detroit. clarence worley? i heard he was in town. might be travelling with a pretty girl named alabama. have you seen him? are they stayin' here?
naw, they am not stayin' here. but, i know who you are talkin' about. they are stayin' at the hollywood holiday inn.
how do you know? you been there?
no, i am not been there. but i heard him say. hollywood holiday inn. kinda easy to remember.
you are right. it is.
i do not know, clarence, "doctor zhivago" is a pretty big movie.
the biggest. the biggest movie you have ever dealt with, lee. we are talkin' a lot of film. a man'd have ta be an idiot not to be a little cautious about a movie like that. and lee, you are no idiot.
but the bottom line is: I am not paramount. i have a select group of distributers i deal with. i buy their little movies. accomplish what i wanna accomplish, end of story. easy, business-like, very little risk.
now that is bullshit, lee. every time you buy one of those little movies it is a risk. I am not sellin' you something that is going to play two weeks, six weeks, then go straight to cable. this is "doctor zhivago". this'll be packin' 'em in for a year and a half. two years! that is two years you do not have to work with anybody's movie but mine.
well, then, what is the hurry? is it true the rights to "doctor zhivago" are in arbitration?
i wanna be able to announce this deal at cannes. if i had time for a courtship, lee, i would. I would take ya out, I would hold your hand, I would kiss you on the cheek at the door. but, I am not in that position. i need to know if we are in bed together, or not. if you want my movie, lee, you are just going to have to come to terms with your fear and desire.
he wants to talk ya.
mr. donowitz?  i told you, through dick.  he is in my acting class.  about a year.  yeah, he is good.  they grew up together.  sure thing.
he says wednesday at three of the clock at the beverly wilshire. he wants everybody there.  he will talk to you. if after talkin' to you he is convinced you are ok, he will do business. if not, he will say fuck it and walk out the door. he also wants a sample bag.
no problems on both counts.
you did it, quickdraw. I am so proud of you. you were like a ninja. did i do my part ok?
babalouey, you were perfect, i could hardly keep from busting up.
i felt so stupid just blowing those bubbles.
you were chillin', kind of creepy even. you totally fucked with his head. I am going to go grab dinner.
I am going to hop in the tub and get all wet, and slippery, and soapy. then I am going to lie in the waterbed, not even both to dry off, and watch x-rated movies till you get your ass back to my lovin' arms.
yeah, i subscribe. it is a pretty decent one.
have you read the story on elvis?
no. not yet.
you know, i saw it on the stands, my first inclination was to buy it. but, i look at the price and say forget it, it is just going to be the same old shit. i ended up breaking down and buying it a few days later. man, i was ever wrong.
that good, huh?
it tried to pin down what the attraction is after all these years. it covers the whole spectrum of fans, the people who love his music, the people who grew up with him, the artists he inspired - bob dylan, bruce springsteen, and the fanatics, like these guys. i do not know about you, but they give me the creeps.
i can see what you mean.
like, look at her. she looks like she fell off an ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down. elvis would not fuck her with pat boone's dick.
fuck! i knew it! i fucking knew it! i should have my head examined, driving like this!  kandi, you gotta help me.
what can i do?
you gotta hold this for me.
you must be high. uh-huh. no way.
just put it in your purse.
I am not going to put that shit in my purse.
they will not search you. i promise. you have not done anything.
no way, jos.
please, they will be here any minute. just put it in your bra.
I am not wearing a bra.
put it in your pants.
no.
you are the one who wanted to drive fast.
read my lips.
look, sunshine, we found a sandwich bag of uncut cocaine -
not a tiny little vial -
but a fuckin' baggie.
no do not sit here and feed us some shit.
you got caught. it is all fun and fuckin' games till you get caught. but now we gotcha. ok, mr. elliot actor, you have just made the big time -
you are no longer an extra -
or a bit player -
or a supporting actor -
you are a fuckin' star! and you are going to be playin' your little one-man show nightly for the next two fuckin' years for a captive audience -
but there is a bright side though. if you ever have to play a part of a guy who gets fucked in the ass on a daily basis by throat-slitting niggers, you will have so much experience to draw on -
and just think, when you get out in a few years, you will meet some girl, get married, and you will be so understanding to your wife's needs, because you will know what it is like to be a woman.
'course you will wanna fuck her in the ass. pussy just will not feed right anymore -
that is, of course, if you do not catch aids from all your anal intrusions.
krinkle, this is it. we got it, man. and it is all ours. i mean talk about fallin' into somethin'. you shoulda seen it, it was beautiful. dimes is hittin' him from the left about being fucked in the ass by niggers, I am hittin' him form the right about not likin' pussy anymore, finally he starts  cryin', and then it was all over -
krinkle, you are lookin' at the two future cops of the month. we have it, and if i say we, i do not mean me and him, I am referring to the whole department. have not had a decent bust this whole month. well, we mighta come in like a lamb, but we are goin' out like a lion -
both you, idiots shut up, i can not understand shit! now, what is happened, what is going on, and what are you talking about?
okee-dokee. it is like this, krinkle; a patrol car stops this dork for speeding, they walk up to window and the guy's covered in coke. so they bring his ass in and me an' nicholson go to work on him.
nicholson and i.
nicholson and i go to work on him. now er know somthing's rotten in denmark, 'cause this dickhead had a big bag, and it is uncut, too, so we are sweatin' him, trying to find out where he got it. scarin' the shit outta him.
which was not too hard, the guy was a real squid.
so we got this guy scared shitless and he starts talkin'. and, krinkle, you am not going to fuckin' believe it.
suspect's words -
to front for him. so elliot is workin' out the deal between them and his boss, a big movie producer named lee donowitz.
he produced "coming home in a body bag".
that vietnam movie?
uh-huh.
that was a good fuckin' movie.
sure was.
do you believe him?
i believe he believes him.
he is so spooked he would turn over his momma, his daddy, his two-panny granny, and anna and the king of siam if he had anything on him.
this rabbit'll do anything not to do time, including wearing a wire.
he will wear a wire?
we talked him into it.
dirty cops. we will have to bring in internal affairs on this.
look, we do not care if you bring in the state milita, the volunteer fire department, the l.a. thunderbirds, the ghost of steve mcqueen, and the twelve roman gladiators, so long as we get credit for the bust.
excuse me, mr. coccotti.  do you know nick cardella?
no.
then where the hell do you get off talkin' that kind of talk?
i did not mean -
shut your mouth. nick cardella was provin' what his words was worth before you were in your daddy's nutsack. what sun do you walk under you can throw a shadow on nick cardella? nick cardella's a stand-up guy.
ya know, i used to fuckin' hate airports.
really?
with a vengeance, i hated them.
how come?
i used to live by one back in dearborn. it is real frustratin' to be surrounded by airplanes when you am not got shit. i hated where i was, but i could not do anythin' about it. i did not have enough money. it was tough enough just tryin' to pay my rent every month, an' here i was livin' next to an airport. whenever i went outside, i saw fuckin' planes take off drownin' out my show. all day long I am seein', hearin' people doin' what i wanted to do most, but couldn't.
what?
leavin' detroit. goin' off on vacations, startin' new lives, business trips. fun, fun, fun, fun.
but knowin' me and you going to be nigger-rich gives me a whole new outlook. i love airports now. me 'n' you can get on any one of those planes out there, and go anywhere we ant.
you am not kiddin', we got lives to start over, we should go somewhere where we can really start from scatch.
i been in america all my life. I am due for a change. i wanna see what tv in other countries is like. besides, it is more dramatic. where should we fly off to, my little turtledove?
cancoon.
why cancoon?
it is got a nice ring to it. it sounds like a movie. "clarence and alabama go to cancoon". do not 'cha think?
but in my movie, baby, you get the top billing.
yeah, well if we got lost, it is your ass.  come on, clarence, lets go. elliot's going to meet us in the lobby.
I am just makin' sure we got everything.  you got yours?
i got the part on "t.j. hooker".
no shit? dick, that is great!
they did not even want a callback. they just hired me like that. me and peter breck are the two heavies. we start shooting monday. my call is for seven of the clock in the morning.
ah, dick, let's talk about it in the car. we can not be late.
clarence.
yeah?
um, nothing, let's go?
like gang-busters. now, remember, if you do not want to go to jail, we got to put your boss in jail.
we have to show in court that, without a doubt, a successful man, an important figure in the hollywood community, is also dealing cocaine.
so you got to get him to admit on tape that he is buying this coke.
you do more than try.
you do.
hope you are a good actor, elliot.
you got that playing basketball?
yeah. i got elbowed right in the eye. and if that was not enough, i got hurled the ball when I am not looking. wam! right in my face.
what the fuck did you bring that for.
in case.
in case of what?
in case they try to kill us. i do not know, what do you want me to say?
look, dillinger, lee donowitz is not a pimp -
i know that richard. i do not think I will need it. but something this last week has taught me, it is better to have a gun and not to need it than to need a gun and not to have it.
do you really mean it?
no, i do not really mean it. well, i mean, this is our last chance to think about it. how 'bout you, bama?
i thought it was what you wanted, clarence.
it is what i want. but i do not want to spend the next ten years in jail. i do not want you guys to go to jail. we do not know what could be waiting for us up there. it will probably be just what it is supposed to be. the only thing that is waiting for us is two hundred thousand dollars. I am just looking at the downside.
now's a helluva time to play "what if".
this is our last chance to play "what if". i want to do it. I am just scared of getting caught.
it is been fun thinking about the money but i can walk away from it, honey.
that rhymes.
well, if we are not going to do it, let's just get in the car and get the fuck outta here.
yeah, let's just get outta here.
where is everybody else?
they will be along.
well, i guess it is about that time.
i guess so. follow me.
elliot.
yeah?
get on your knees.
he knows.
how the fuck could he know?
he saw the wire.
how is he supposed to see the wire?
he knows something is up.
do not you?
no.
do not lie to me, motherfucker. you apparently think I am the dumbest motherfucker in the world! do not you? say: clarence, you are without a doubt, the dumbest motherfucker in the whole wide world. say it!
we gotta get him outta there.
whatta we going to do? he is in an elevator.
say it, goddamn it!
you are the dumbest person in the world.
apparently I am not as dumb as you thought i am.
no. no you are not.
what is waiting for us up there. tell me or I will pump two right in your face.
he is bluffin ya, elliot. can not you see that? you are an actor, remember, the show must go on.
this guy's going to kill him.
do not blow it, elliot. he is bluffin'. he just told you so himself.
you are an actor, so act, motherfucker.
yes.
are you dick ritchie?
no.
do you know a clarence worley?
yes.
do you know where we can find him?
he is at the beverly wilshire.
where is that?
well, you go down beechwood...
well, i have to admit, walkin' through the door and seein' these "soldier of fortune" poster boys made me a bit nervous. but, lee, I am fairly confident that you came here to do business, not to be a wise-guy. so, if you want, I will put the gun on the table.
i do not think that will be necessary. let's all have a seat. boris, why do not you be nice and get coffee for everybody.
oh, mr. donowitz -
lee, clarence . please do not insult me. call me lee.
ok, sorry, lee. i just wanna tell you "coming home in a body bag" is one of my favorite movies. after "apocalypse now" i think it is the best vietnam movie ever.
thank you very much, clarence.
you know, most movies that win a lot of oscars, i can not stand. "sophie's choice", "ordinary people", "kramer vs. kramer", "gandhi". all that stuff is safe, geriatric, coffee-table dog shit.
i hear you talkin' clarence. we park our cars in the same garage.
like that merchant-ivory clap-trap. all those assholes make are unwatchable movies from unreadable books.
what was the jew-boy's name?
donowitz, he said.
now, that is practically uncut. you could, if you so desire, cut it a helluva lot more.
do not worry, I will desire. boris, could i have some more coffee.
me too, boris.
you like a little coffee with your cream and sugar?
I am not satisfied till the spoon stands straight up.
no. but thanks.
no thanks, my stomach's a little upset. i ate somethin' at a restaurant that made me a little sick.
where did you go?
a norms in van nuys.
bastards. that is why i always eat at lawreys.
elliot tells me you are fronting for a dirty cop.
well, elliot was not supposed to tell you anythin'.  thanks a lot, bigmouth. i knew you were a squid the moment i laid eyes on you. in my book, buddy, you are a piece of shit.  he is not a dirty cop, he is a good cop. he just saw his chance and he took it.
why does he trust you?
we grew up together.
if you do not know shit, why does he think you can sell it?
i bullshitted him.
wanna count your money?
actually, they can count it. I would like to use the little boy's room.
clarence, i gotta hand it to ya. you were cooler than cool.
i was dying. i thought for sure everyone could see it on my face.
all anybody saw was clint eastwood drinkin' coffee.
can you develop an ulcer in two minutes? being cool is hard on your body.
oh, and your line to charles atlas in there: "i'll take that gun", "you'll have to".
that was cool, was not it? you know, i do not even know where that came from. i just opened my mouth and it came out. after i said it i thought, that is a cool line, i got to remember that.
how do you think I am doin' with lee?
are you kiddin'? he loves you.
you do not think I am kissin' his ass, do you?
you are tellin' him what he wants to hear, but that am not the same thing as kissin' his ass.
I am not lyin' to him. i mean it. i loved "coming home in a body bag".
that is why it does not come across as ass-kissin', because it is genuine, and he can see that.
