we want you to tell us about last night.
i went to the surface and i collected specimens like i was told.
i mashed the spider, did not i?
we will get to the spider later, mr. cole.  right now, we want to know everything that you saw.
it is important to observe everything.
i think it was...i'm sure it was 2nd street.
wake up, cole.
uh, i did not hear the...
i asked you, why did you volunteer?
well, the guard woke me up.  he told me i volunteered.
to be determined by the proper authorities.
you do not want to jeopardize that reduction, do you, cole?  have it taken away?
no, sir!
we have a very advanced program, something very different, requires very skilled people.
we want tough minded people.  strong mentally.  we have had some...misfortunes with "unstable" types.
for a man in your position...an opportunity.
-- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. totally irrational, totally disoriented, does not know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff.  all they got was his name.  they figure he is stoned out of his mind, it is some kinda psychotic episode, so they are going to bring him...
he is been tested for drugs?
negative for drugs.  but he took on five cops like he was dusted to the eyeballs.  no drugs.  you believe that?
you have him in restraints.
were you listening?  we got two officers in the hospital.  yeah, he is in restraints, plus the medic gave him enough stellazine to kill a horse.  look at him!  still on his feet.
that would explain the bruises, i guess.  the struggle.
you want to go in?  examine him?
yes, please.  you said he gave a name...
james cole.  that is everything we got.  none of the james coles on the computer match him. no license, no prints, no warrants.  nothing. you want me to go in with you?
no, thank you.
I will be right here...just in case.
mr. cole?  my name is doctor railly. I am a psychiatrist.  i work for the county -- i do not work for the police. my only concern is your well being -- do you understand that?
i need to go now.
I am going to be completely honest.  I am not going to lie to you.  i can not make the police let you go...but i do want to help you.  and i want you to trust me.  can you do that, james?  may i call you "james"?
"james"!  nobody ever calls me that.
have you been a patient at county? have i seen you someplace?
no, not possible.  listen, i have to get out of here.  I am supposed to be getting information.
what kind of information?
it will not help you.  you can not do anything about it.  you can not change anything.
change what?
i need to go.
do you know why you are here, james.
because I am a good observer.  because i have a tough mind.
i see.  you do not remember assaulting a police officer...several officers?
they wanted identification.  i do not have any identification.  i was not trying to hurt them.
you do not have a driver's license, james?  or a social security card?
no.
why not?  most people have some id.
you would not understand.
you have been in an institution, have not you, james?  a hospital?
i have to go.
a jail?  prison?
underground.
hiding?
i love this air.  this is wonderful air.
what is wonderful about the air, james?
it is so clean.  no germs.
you are afraid of germs?
i have to go.
why do you think there are not any germs in the air, james?
this is april, right?
july.
july?!
do you know what year it is?
what year is it?
what year do you think it is?
1995?
you think it is july of 1995?  that is the future, james.  do you think you are living in the future?
no, 1995 is the past.
1995 is the future, james.  this is 1989.
what did they give you?  thorazine?  how much?  learn your drugs -- know your doses.
i need to make a telephone call.
a telephone call?  that is communication with the outside world!  doctor's discretion.  hey, if alla these nuts could just make phone calls, it could spread.  insanity oozing through telephone cables, oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people, infecting them!  whackos everywhere!  a plague of madness.  in fact, very few of us here are actually mentally ill.  I am not saying you are not mentally ill, for all i know you are crazy as a loon.  but that is not why you are here.  why you are here is because of the system, because of the economy.  there is the tv.  it is all right there. commercials.  we are not productive anymore, they do not need us to make things anymore, it is all automated.  what are we for then?  we are consumers.  okay, buy a lot of stuff, you are a good citizen. but if you do not buy a lot of stuff, you know what?  you are mentally ill! that is a fact!  if you do not buy things...toilet paper, new cars, computerized blenders, electrically operated sexual devices...  screwdrivers with miniature built-in radar devices, stereo systems with brain implanted headphones, voice- activated computers, and...
does this bother you, mr. cole?
no!  look, i do not belong here!  what i need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out.
who would you call, mr. cole, who would straighten everything out?
scientists.  I am supposed to report in to them.  they will want to know they sent me to the wrong time.
so you could talk to these scientists and they do what?  send you to the future?
no, no.  i can not talk to them.  it is called, "voice mail".  I am supposed to leave messages. they monitor it from the present.
it was some lady.  she did not know anything.
perhaps it was a wrong number...
no.  that is the reason they chose me -- i remember things.
james, where did you grow up?  was it around here?  around baltimore?
what?
i have the...strangest feeling I have met you before...a long time ago, perhaps. were you ever...?
wait!  this is only 1989!  I am supposed to be leaving messages in 1995.  it is not the right number yet.  that is the problem.  damn!  how can i contact them?
germs?!
in the 18th century there was no such thing!  nobody'd ever imagined such a thing -- no sane person anyway.  along comes this doctor...semmelweiss, i think.  he tries to convince people... other doctors mostly...that there are these teeny tiny invisible "bad things" called germs that get into your body and make you...sick!  he is trying to get doctors to wash their hands.  what is this guy...crazy?  teeny tiny invisible whaddayou call 'em?..."germs"!
"what about the germs?"  i say.  he goes, "i do not believe in germs.  germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" now, he is crazy, right?  hey, you believe in germs, do not you?
I am not crazy.
of course not, i never thought you were. you want to escape, right?  that is very sane.  i can help you.  you want me to, do not you?  get you out?
if you know how to escape, why do not you...?
why do not i escape, that is what you were going to ask me, right?  'cause I would be crazy to escape!  I am all taken care of, see?  I have sent out word.
what is that mean?
I have managed to contact certain underlings, evil spirits, secretaries of secretaries, and assorted minions, who will contact my father. when he learns I am in this kind of place, he will have them transfer me to one of those classy joints where they treat you...properly. like a guest!  like a person!  sheets! towels!  like a big hotel with great drugs for the nut case lunatic maniac devils...
they hurt you!
not as bad as what they are doing to kitty.
look at those assholes, they are asking for it!  maybe people deserved to be wiped out!
wiping cut the human race!  that is a great idea!  but it is more of a long term thing -- right now we have to focus on more immediate goals.  i did not say a word about "you know what".
what are you talking about???
you know -- your plan.
what are you writing?  you a reporter?
it is private.
a lawsuit?  you going to sue them?
what....???
wooooo, they really dosed you, bro. major load!  listen up -- try and get it together.  focus!  focus!  the plan! remember?  i did my part.
what...???
not, "what", babe!  when!
it is just a shot to calm you.
no more drugs.  please...
i have to do this, james.  you are very confused.
do not be defensive, kathryn, this is not an inquisition.
i did not think i was being defensive. i was just...
he should have been in restraints.  it was bad judgment on your part, plain and simple.  why not just cop to it?
okay, it was bad judgment.  but i have the strangest feeling about him -- I have seen him somewhere and...
two policemen were already in the hospital and now we have an orderly with a broken arm and a security officer with a fractured skull.
i said it was bad judgment!  what else do you want me to say?
you see what i mean?  you are being defensive.  is not she being defensive, bob?
he was fully sedated!
then are you trying to tell me that a fully sedated, fully restrained patient somehow slipped out that vent, replaced the grill behind him and that he is wriggling through the ventilation system right now?
well?
uh, what?
he is drugged out of his mind!  he is completely zoned out.
cole, did you or did you not record that message?
uh, that message...me?
it is a digital reconstruction of a message, cole, from a weak signal on our contact number.  did you make that call?
i could not call!  you sent me to the wrong year!  it was 1989.
they forced me to take drugs.
forced you!  why would someone force you to take drugs?
i got into trouble.  i got arrested. but i still got you a specimen -- a spider -- but i did not have anyplace to put it, so i ate it.  it was the wrong year anyway, so i guess it does not matter.
him?  you saw that man?
uh, i think so.  in the mental hospital.
jose!
cole!  oh, god, cole, where are we?
cole!  james cole!  you escaped from a locked room six years ago.
1989.  six years for you.  there is the sign!  right here!
i can not believe this is a coincidence, mr. cole.  have you been...following me?
you told me you would help me.  i know this is not what you meant, but...i was desperate... no money...bum leg... sleeping on the streets. i probably smell bad.  sorry about that. but then i saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture.  i can read, remember?
yes, i remember.  why do you want to go to philadelphia?
it is the next step.  i checked out the baltimore information, it was nothing. it is philadelphia, that is where they are, the ones who killed everyone.  zs that a radio?  does it play music?
you used to call me "james".
you would prefer that? ... james...you do not really have a gun, do you.
everybody's got a gun.  in this city...
"never cry wolf!"
what?
my father told me that.  "never cry wolf."  then people will not believe you if...something really happens.
"if something really happens"...like what, james?
something bad.  is that all the music? i do not want to hear this stuff...
did something terrible happen to you when you were a child?  something so bad...?
ohhhh, that one!  can we hear that one?
you were in my dream just now.  your hair was different, but I am sure it was you.
we dream about what is important in our lives. and i seem to have become pretty important in yours.  what was the dream about?
about an airport...before everything happened.  it is the same dream i always have -- the only one.  I am a little kid in it.
and i was in it?  what did i do?
you were very upset.  you are always very upset in the dream, but i never knew it was you before.
it was not me before, james.  it is become me now because of...what's happening.  please untie me.
no, i think it was always you.  it is very strange.
you are flushed.  and you were moaning. i think you are running a fever.  what are you doing?
my notes.  observations.  clues.
clues?  what kind of clues?
a secret army.  the army of the twelve monkeys.  I have told you about them. they spread the virus.  that is why we have to get to philadelphia.  i have to find them -- it is my assignment.
what will you do...when you find this...secret army?
i just have to locate the virus in its original form before it mutates.  so scientists can come back and study it and find a cure.  so that those of us who survived can go back to the surface of the earth.
does that disturb you, james?  thinking about that little boy in the well?
when i was a kid i identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down -- does not know if they are going to save him.
what do you mean -- when you were a kid?
nevermind.  it is not real -- it is a hoax.  a prank.  he is hiding in a barn. hey, turn left here.  left!
look, I am warning you.  you do anything, I am going to go crazy -- hurt people!
I am not going to "do" anything, i promise.  but you need help, james. none of this is what you think it is.
they are keeping an eye on me.
who is keeping an eye on you?
the man...with the voice.  i recognized him.  he is from the present.  he...
are you hurt?
uh, no.  yes.  i mean, just some scrapes...
oh, jesus, james!  you killed him!
i did him a favor.  now come on.
you did not have a gun before, did you?
I have got one now.
i told you what i want.  lock the door!
james, why do not we...?
lock it now!
i told you that fuckhead mason would get us into something like this.
shut up!
mason???
jeffrey mason?
that is him.
what are you going to do with us?
all i see are dead people.  everywhere. what is three more?
you know dr. mason's son, jeffrey mason, do not you, james?  you met him in the county hospital six years ago.
the guy was a total fruitcake.
and he told you then his father was a famous virologist.
we need gas.
i thought you did not know how to drive.
i said i was too young to drive.  i did not say i was stupid.
what is the matter with your leg?
i got shot.  look -- there is a gas station up ahead.
shot!  who shot you?
it was some kind of...war.  never mind, you would not believe me.  turn off here.
you were going to run out off gas on purpose, were not you?
no.  i want you to turn yourself in, james -- it will go much better for you if you do -- but I am not going to trick you.
that has your name on it.  give him cash.
you smell so good.
you have to give yourself up, you know.
never saw him before in my life.  go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do.
you do know me.  you helped me once.
that would be totally out of character. helping people is against my principles.  see, he definitely does not know me.  now, I am going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science while you torture this intruder to death.
I am here about some monkeys.
excuse me -- what did you say?
monkeys.  twelve of them.
county hospital, right?  1989.  the "immaculate escape" -- am i right?  why, thank you -- you look wonderful, too.
listen to me -- i can not do anything about what you are going to do. i can not change anything.  i can not stop you.  i just want some information...
we need to talk.  come on.  upstairs.  i am a new person!  I am completely adjusted.  witness the tux.  it is armani.  who chattered?  goines?  weller?
i just need to have access to the pure virus, that is all!  for the future!
i do not have time to go upstairs.  the police are looking for me.  i need to know where it is and exactly what it is.
i get it!  this is your old plan, right?
plan?  what are you talking about?
remember?  we were in the dayroom, watching tv, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. and you said to me, "wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?"  you do remember that, do not you?
bulishit!  you are fucking with my head!
and that is when i told you my father was this famous virologist and you said, "hey, he could make a germ and we could steal it!"
listen, you dumb fuck!  the thing mutates we live underground!  the world belongs to the fucking dogs and cats.  we are like moles or worms.  all we want to do is study the original...
what have you done?  did you...kill someone?
no!  i...don't think so.  i stole a car and they chased me.  i hit a tree.
see -- you can drive after all!
yeah, sort of, i guess.  i...i'm sorry i locked you up.  i thought...i thought... i think maybe i am crazy!
what made you think that?
jeffrey mason said it was my idea about the virus.  and suddenly, i was not sure.  we talked when i was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. the drugs and stuff.  you think maybe I am the one who wiped out the human race?  it was my idea?
nobody is going to wipe out the human race.  not you or jeffrey or anybody else.  you have created something in your mind, james -- a substitute reality. in order to avoid something you do not want to face.
i'm..."mentally divergent".  i would love to believe that.
it can be dealt with, but only if you want to.  i can help you.
i need help all right.  they are coming after me.
first, it is important that you surrender to them instead of them catching you running.  okay?
it would be great if I am crazy.  if I am wrong about everything...the world will be okay.  I will never have to live underground.
give me the gun.
the gun! ... i lost it
you are sure?
no gun!  stars!  air!  i can live here.  breathe!
but just until you recover your, uh,... equilibrium.
you are still a little... disoriented.
we are very close!  because of you!
this is it, james...what you have been working for.
women will want to get to know you...
i do not want your "women," you brainless twit! i want to be well!
he kidnapped you, kathryn.  you saw him murder someone.  you knew there was a real possibility he would kill you, too.  you were under tremendous emotional stress.
for god sakes, owen, listen to me -- he knew about the boy in fresno and he says three billion people are going to die!
kathryn, you know he can not possibly know that.  you are a rational person. you are a trained psychiatrist.  you know the difference between what is real and what is not.
and what we believe is what is accepted as "truth" now, is not it, owen?  psychiatry -- it is the latest religion.  and we are the priests -- we decide what is right and what is wrong --we decide who is crazy and who isn't. ... I am in trouble, owen.  I am losing my faith.
the food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations -- you have not become "addicted" have you, cole?  to that "dying" world'
no, sir!  i just want to do my part. to get us back on top...in charge of the planet.  and i have the experience, i know who the people are...
you said we were not "real," cole...
well, sir, i do not think the human mind was built to exist in two different... whatever you call it..."dimensions." it is stressful, you said it yourselves, it gets you confused.  you do not know what is real and what is not.
but you know what is real now?
yes, sir.
i understand.  there would be no point.
we are going to think about it, cole. among ourselves.  we will get back to you.
let's consider again our current information -- if the symptoms were first detected in philadelphia on june 28, 1995, that makes us know that...?
it was released in philadelphia, probably on june 14, 1995.
and it appeared sequentially after that in...?
san francisco, new orleans, rio de janeiro, rome, kinshasa, karachi, bangkok, then peking.
meaning...???
that the virus was taken from philadelphia to san francisco, then to new orleans, rio de janeiro, rome, kinshasa, karachi, bangkok, then peking.
and your only goal is...???
to find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus.
so that...???
uh, so that a vaccine can be developed that will, uh, allow mankind to reclaim the surface of the earth.
it is the kidnap woman -- the one who was with the guy who tied us up.
what is she doing?
she is drawing attention to us, that is what she is doing. ... i do not know what you are up to this time, mason, but you are going to get us in deep shit!
one dozen bolt cutters!  whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters?
you really want to know?
no!  absolutely not. do not tell me anything.
why do not we forget my goddamn psychiatrist and deal with the task at hand.  this is important.
your psychiatrist?  did you just say, "your psychiatrist"?
ex-psychiatrist!  now, what about flashlights?  how many flashlights...?
that woman is...was...your... psychiatrist?  and now she is spray- painting our building?
james!  that is a policeman.  pretend you do not know me.  if he sees you...
no, i want to turn myself in.  where is he?  do not worry -- it is all okay now.  I am not crazy any more!  i mean, i am crazy, mentally divergent, actually, but i know it now and i want you to help me.  i want to get well...
wow, a guy in a chevy is chasing her and some other guy i can not see.
hey, no problem, it is probably just another kidnapping featuring jeffrey's shrink, pardon me, make that ex-shrink.  this is your leader, a certifiable lunatic who told his former psychiatrist all his plans for god knows what whacko irresponsible schemes, and now who knows what she is painted out there on our wall?
who cares what psychiatrists write on walls?  you think i told her about the army of the 12 monkeys?  impossible!  know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretend-friend-to- animals"?!  I will tell you why:  because when i had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing -- i had not even thought of it yet!
then how come she knows what is going on?
i do not understand what we are doing.
we are avoiding the police until i can....talk to you.
you mean, treat me?  cure me?  kathryn, those words on the wall -- I have seen them before...  i...i...dreamed them.
okay...you were standing there looking at the moon...you were eating grass... then what?
i thought i was in...prison again.
just like that?  you were in prison?
no, not really.  it's...it's in my mind.  like you said.
you disappeared!  one minute you were there, the next minute you were gone. did you run through the woods?
i do not know -- i do not remember.
the boy in the well.  how did you know that was just a hoax?
it was?  i didn't...know.
james, you said he was hiding in the barn...
i think i saw a tv show like that when i was a kid.  where a boy...
it was not a tv show!  it was real!
what does this mean to you?
...i had a dream about...something like that.
you had a bullet from world war one in your leg, james!  how did it get there?
you said i had delusions -- that i created a world -- you said you could explain everything...
well, i can't. ... i mean...i'm trying to.  i can not believe that everything we do or say has already happened, that we can not change what is going to happen, that I am one of the three billion people who are going to die...soon.
i want to be here.  in this time.  with you.  i want to become...become a whole person.  i want this to be the present. i want the future to be unknown.
james...do you remember...six years ago...you had a phone number!  you tried to call and...
you want me to rob him?
i...i...we need cash, james.
it is a carpet cleaning company...
a carpet cleaning company?
no superiors!  no scientists.  no people from the future.  it is just a carpet cleaning company.  they have voice mail -- you leave a message telling them when you want your carpet cleaned.
you... you left them a message?
i could not resist.  i was so relieved. wait'll they hear this nutty woman telling them...they better watch out for the army of the twelve monkeys...
you... you could not have heard me.
they got your message, kathryn.  they played it for me.  it was a bad recording...distorted.  i did not recognize your voice.
what...virus?
she knew about it, jeffrey.  she knew you were going to try this.
what virus are we talking about, dad?
you are insane, jeffrey.
you "develop" viruses and you are calling me insane?  typical.  what does this virus attack?  do not tell me, you sick fuck, it does not matter.  have i ever "developed" a virus?  do i put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? do i inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements?  wow!  and I am crazy!
please tell me, jeffrey, what exactly are you going to do?  i do not have to tell you I am afraid.
this is a fucking experiment!  you are our helpless little test animal, daddy. got that?  now -- what fucking virus have you come up with, you demented fucking maniac?
i think I have seen this movie before. when i was a kid.  it was on tv.
shh -- do not talk.  hold still.
i have seen it, but i do not remember this part.  funny, it is like what is happening to us, like the past.  the movie never changes -- it can not change -- but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you are different -- you notice different things.
if we can not change anything...because it is already happened, then we ought to at least smell the flowers.
flowers!  what flowers?
why are we doing this?
so we can stick our heads out the window and feel the wind and listen to the music.  so we can appreciate what we have while we have it.  forgive me, psychiatrists do not cry.
but maybe I am wrong.  maybe you are wrong.  maybe we are both crazy.
in a few weeks, it will have started or it won't.  if there are still baseball games and traffic jams, armed robberies and boring tv shows -- we will be so happy, we will be glad to turn ourselves in to the police.
you were in my dream just now.  i did not recognize you.
well, you look pretty different, too.
i mean in my dream -- i did not realize it was you.  then...i woke up and i...i thought you were gone.
i remember you...like this.  i feel I have known you before.  i feel I have always known you.
nine thirty
might be tight.
tight?  my watch says 7:30.
on your normal mornin', okay, plenty a time, but today, got to take inta account your army-of-the-twelve-monkeys factor.
what?  what did you say?
twelve monkeys, honey.  guess you folks did not turn on your radio this morning.
that is what they were up to!  freeing animals!
on the walls -- they meant the animals when they said, "we did it."
i know this place! ... this is my dream.
airports all look the same.  maybe it's...  james!  your moustache!  it is slipping.
they may be looking for us, james.  use this.  you can fix it in the men's room.
i was here...as a kid.  i think you were here, too.  but you...looked just like you look now.
james, if we are identified, they are going to send us someplace...but not to key west!
right!  you are right.  i have to fix this.
I will get the tickets and meet you... in the gift shop.
jo...jose????
pulling out the tooth, man, that was nuts!  here, take this.
me?  are you kiddin?  you are the one! you were a hero, man.  they gave you a pardon!  and whadda you do?  you come back and fuck with your teeth!  wow!
how did you find me?
the phone call, man.  the phone call.
the call i just made?  five minutes ago?
hey, five minutes ago, thirty years ago! yes, that phone call.  i been in training for this a couple a months now -- ever since i got back from that... "weird" war we were in.  you remember that?  here, take it, man!  you could still be a hero if you would cooperate!
this part is not about the virus, is it?
hey, man...
it is about obeying, about doing what you are told.
they gave you a pardon, man.  whatdaya want?
who am i supposed to shoot?
