you like sports?
it is my field. i represent athletes. I am an agent.
what a coincidence? I am a male synchronized swimmer and I am looking for representation.
is that right?
but I am afraid of water, so that is been holding my career back a little bit.
you represent someone in philadelphia?
I am meeting a player from temple university. he is a cornerback. you like football?
not really.
this kid is six foot two, two hundred and forty pounds. he runs the fifty in under six seconds. he is going to be a god.
how are you feeling?
okay.
you are in the emergency room of the university of pennsylvania hospital. you were in a serious accident.  how is your vision?
fine.
where were you sitting on the train?
against a window.
in the passenger car?
yes. where are the rest of the passengers?
was your family traveling with you?
no.
did you get up from your seat?
no.
i do not think i got the job in new york.
what does that mean?
I am still going to new york. just not this second.
i do not want to drag this out too long for jeremy.
i know.
jeremy, why do not you go sleep with your mom?
i want to sleep here tonight.
i think it is be better if i was alone.
i will not make any noise.
how about your room then? if you get scared like before, you can come back in here?
yes?
is noel in?
no sir he is not.  i read about you in the paper.
oh.
i was in an accident once too. a horse almost trampled me to death.
wow.
i had to put him down.
proceed.
ask if he can check how many sick days I have taken since I have worked here?
is that the entire message?
yes.
is jeremy okay?
he is asleep.
oh.
i do not know. it is been a while.
i have not been sick this year. i know that.
okay.
do you remember me getting sick?
not a specific day. what is this about?
megan, do you ever remember me getting sick?
...i can not remember.
that is strange is not it? not remembering one fever... or a cold... or a sore throat. what do you think that means?
it means we are probably to tired to remember.
is that what you wanted to ask me?
yes.
is there anything else you wanted to ask me while I am up?... when was the last time you wore pink? when was the last time you drank soup standing up? final call for strange questions at two in the morning.
no that is it.
when was the last time i wore pink?
the mitchell barbecue three years ago.
oh shit...
matching shirt and shorts. it was brutal.
no more sitting in this room. I have let it go on long enough.
I am not going out anymore. I am not getting hurt again. this was the last time. i told you.
you can not do anything about that. you might fall between that chair and this television. if that is what god has planned for you, that is what is going to happen. you can not hide from it in your room.
...i got a present for you.
why?
forget why. do you want it or not?
well, go get it then.
where is it?
on a bench, across the street.
wrap it up.
you have made a considerably wise decision.
once again please?
my son jeb. it is a gift for him.
how old is jeb?
four.
no.
no, no, no, no no... you need to go now.
what did i say?
do you see any telletubbies around here?... do you see a slender plastic tag clipped to my shirt with my name printed on it?... do you see a little asian child with a blank expression sitting outside in a mechanical helicopter that shakes when you put a quarter in it?... no?... well that is what you see at a toy store? any you must think this is a toy store, cause you are in here shopping for an infant named jeb. one of us has made a gross error and wasted the other person's valuable time...
I am listening.
I will keep it in my office room.
what about jeb?
i have a lock on the door.
you have never been sick?
i do not know for sure.  ...i do not think so.
how certain are you that you have not been sick in your life?
seventy-five percent.
seventy-five percent? that is not nearly good enough for me. I am extremely skeptical.
skeptical about what?
your answer to my question. it is one thing to have never been injured in your life, but to state that you have never taken ill, well that is a whole new level.
what is he talking about?
in college. a car accident.
was it serious?
i assumed because of the train.
you assumed wrong.
you forgot the "now I am going to tell you what the hell is going on" step. see usually that comes before the, "it's over" step. and it always, always comes before the "you can go" step.  what is over?
the life of an idea that has lived too long in my head.
this city has had its share of disasters. well publicized ones. it was around the time of that plane crash, when it first entered my head. and there it stayed, as i waited and watched the news over the years...  and then one day i see a news report on a train accident and its sole survivor who was miraculously unharmed.  and just like that, an idea blossoms into the flower of possible reality.
what was your idea elijah?
at the church... you were following me were not you?
technically no. i gambled that you would attend the church service. i just waited for you.
what is this about? this is obviously some scam. is this where you tell me one of those pictures is like an investment?
you have misunderstood.
i see guys like you all the time in my work. you find someone you think is emotionally vulnerable and you tell them a fantastic story, utterly convincing... and somewhere in there, you slip it in... 'i just need your credit card number','i just need a small down payment.'
I have come to a decision.
oh.
dunne, it is jenkins, we got a guy at gate 17c with a bogus ticket. says he knows you. he will not tell me his name.
what is he look like?
he is got the most beautiful eyes... the hell kind of question is that? he is a guy.
send him packing. I am not walking all the way over there.
consider him packed. i did not like his attitude... struttin around with a cane and shit.
it is for last week's game.
I have come to understand that...  an ill advised purchase in the parking lot.
what do you want?
not money.  but i appreciate your healthy cynicism in the manner. it will be wise for both of us to proceed with greatest caution.
we are not proceeding anywhere together.
we have already begun.
why is it, do you think, that of all the professions in the world... you chose protection?
are you for real?
you could have poured coffee in starbucks, you could have learned to install track lighting in office buildings, you could have told people their horoscopes on the internet... you could have been one of ten thousand things... but in the end, you chose to protect people. you made that decision... and i find that very, very interesting.  now all i need is your credit card number.
just give me a minute.
is there a problem?
that guy in green. sometimes people carry weapons in here. then they drink too much. they are team is not doing so well, bad things happen... we do random pat downs of the crowd to discourage people from carrying.  if he is carrying, he will step out of line.
i got you a seat in the seven hundred level.  it is nose-bleed territory, but at least you will not get spit on.
how did you know that man you bumped was carrying a weapon?
probably the army jacket. those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show.
you thought he was carrying a knife?
i thought he was carrying something.
but not a knife?
i got this picture of a silver handled gun tucked in his pants.  like on t.v.
you have good instincts when it comes to things like that?
like what?
telling when people have done something wrong?
yes.
have you ever tried to develop it?
i do not know what you are asking?
you are skill.
listen. i got to be on the sidelines during the game... you can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at--
characters in comic books are often attributed special powers. x-ray vision, things of that sort.
okay, i do not want to play this game anymore.
it is an exaggeration of the truth. maybe it is based on something as simple as instinct. like being able to touch someone and tell whether they have done something wrong... or the level of what they have done wrong.
the guy might not have been carrying anything.
or he might have been carrying a silver handled gun tucked in his pants.
i have to go now.
one last question.
quick.
the car accident you were in... was there anyone else involved?
he going pro in the draft. they say he can run the fifty--
in under six seconds.  I have heard.
I am going to go in.
just play one set of downs. i told them you were great.
why did you do that?
just one--
jeremy.  I am going in. i have to do some things.
what things?
I am going to work out.
I will help you.
there is nothing to do.
you think you could beat up mike tyson? i mean before he started wiggin out and eating people's ears?
no.
what if you worked out everyday for six months? you think you could beat him then?
no.
what if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year?
you put too much. that is two hundred and fifty pounds.
how much can you lift?
no.
i mean if you knew karate?
no jeremy.
what if he was not aloud to kick and you were really mad at him?
how much did you take off?
i lied.
how much is it?
two hundred and seventy.
what do you do if something happens?
get mom.
how many did you put on that time?
all of it.
there is no more left?
yeah, hello.
is david dunne there?
megan?
yes. is this david?
yeah? megan where are you calling from?
my name is megan inverso. we went to college together.
i remember you.
i was hoping you would call me, but... anyway i decided not to wait.  i was thinking, it might be nice to go to dinner together.
...when you work with clients on machines, do they sometimes just jump up a level or two? do something they did not know they were capable of?
not often, but it is possible. most people get scared when they see the shadow of their limits. they do not know how long the shadow really is. they do not know how far away the real limits are standing... they stop out of fear.
what do i do when I am around someone i know?
you use your sleeve.
I am sleeping in my room.
i see.
I am not scared.
that is great.
do you know why?
i know now.
know what?
you are secret identity.  that man was right.
we are going to prevent any substantial atrophy of your good leg with this.  it works the quadriceps.
how long have you been married?
twelve years.
how did you get together?
now you are going to have to tell me more.
...see my husband was a big football star in college and we were in an accident together. our car flipped on an icy road. we were both injured. he could not play football anymore.  if that had not happened, we would not have been together.
how so?
football was not the kind of life i wanted... for ten years I would be by the phone waiting for a call telling me he broke his neck in a practice game. and if it was not that call, it would be a call telling me he blew out his knee or suffered his third concussion. I have seen way too much of it in my job... i can barely take it when my clients are in pain.  i do not hate the game. i admire the amount of skill it involved and, like everyone else, i was in awe of how he could play it, but i could not give him my heart and then have something happen to him. and it always does with that game.  it is not a thing many people would understand.
you and my mother would have a special connection.
any way, fate stepped in and took football out of the equation.
...and everyone lived happily ever after.
there have been three major disasters in this city over the last four years. I have followed each one of them... a seven-three-seven crashes on take off. one hundred and seventy-two die. no survivors... a hotel fire downtown. two hundred and eleven die. no survivors... and am amtrak train derails seven and half miles outside of the city. one hundred and thirty one die. one survivor. he is unharmed.  I have spoken with your husband about his survival. i suggested a rather unbelievable explanation. since then, I have come to believe, that my explanation, however unbelievable, is in fact, true.
and what was that explanation?
is this a religious thing?
i own a comic book museum. it is called the limited edition.
for a second there i thought you were a fanatic.
i believe comic books are based loosely on reality -- i believe there are real life equivalents of the heroes in those books that walk the earth -- i believe your husband is one of those individuals.
yeah?
there is a message for you at the office. your kid was hurt.
when?
just now. they want you to come down to his school.
he is just laying in bed. he is pretty upset. he will not talk.
he is dealing with a lot of things.  i think he needs to find answers himself.
would you like to try going--
yes.
out again?
oh. elijah price came to visit me at the center today.
jesus.
he did not do anything. he just told me his theory... it is sad when patients get like that. they loose reality.
jeremy what the hell are you doing?
you will not get hurt...
elijah was wrong.
that was me they were talking about. i almost died. that was me.
you are lying.
I am not. i just did not connect it.
I will just shoot him once.
jeremy listen to what--
do not be scared.
jeremy if you pull that trigger I am going to leave! I am going to go to new york.
i must have felt some lump in his back when i bumped him. most guns have a black or silver handle. i had a fifty-fifty shot at the color.
that is not what i witnessed david.
stop messing with my life elijah. my son almost shot me last night. he wanted to prove you were right.
i never said you could not be killed. i never said that.
you have a problem, elijah. my wife is right. somewhere along the line one of your bones broke and your mind just broke with it.
are you finished?
no. and i have been sick. i spent a week in a hospital when i was a boy recovering from pneumonia and almost drowning. two skinny eight year old kids were playing around the pool. they were dunking me. i swallowed water. they did not know it and they almost killed me.  heroes do not get killed like that. normal people do.
...i think rust.
rust?
as a color, not as rust. you know, a rust colored paint or wood?
i did not know that. mine's still brown.
my turn. what is your favorite song?
soft and wet, by the artist formerly known as prince.
what was that?
we are supposed to be honest.
soft and wet. that is very interesting.
my turn.  when was the first time the thought popped into your head that we might not make it?
I am not sure.
think carefully?
what about the game?
it is finished. i won.
maybe it was not a specific moment, maybe it--
i had a nightmare one night and i did not wake you up so you could tell me it was okay.  i think that was the first time.  does that count?
that counts.
why?
i do not know megan.
it is like you resent us david. resent the life you have.
he does not look very threatening.
that is what i said to my son. he said, there is always two kinds. the soldier villain who fights the hero with his hands, and then there is the real threat. the brilliant and evil arch enemy who fights the hero with his mind.
i am. I am helping him with the sale.
it is a pleasure to meet you. I am david dunne.
he is spoken of you. he says you are becoming friends.
we are.
he is doing well today.
I am very proud of him.  he is been through a lot in his life. a lot of ups and downs, a lot of bad spells. a couple I would thought had broken him... i mean emotionally.  they were bad... but he made it. yes he did.
he is kind of a miracle.
yes he is.
