did you hear?
yes, the child ...
the child!
yes.
there's no child here.
but ... the dogs...
there's no child here, and no dogs either.
no?
no!  good night!
what were you dreaming about?
a voice ...
that spoke to you?
that called ... commanded ...
what did it say?
your father?
yes!
the master ... is asleep!
by the time we return there, all the preparations for the blood transfusion are completed.
joseph returns from the room where gisèle is. he has evidently succeeded in calming her. he goes and sits in the chair where nikolas sat. he rests his head in his hand. he sees the open diary and begins reading it.
the blood transfusion is now in progress. the only words are curt orders like: 'now! - quickly! - that's enough! - give it to me! - sit still!' etc.
joseph is reading the diary, which arouses his interest more and more. it is as if he finds a connection between what he reads and the fearful events that have taken place around him. an extract from the diary is shown.
the blood transfusion continues. marc has positioned himself outside the circle of light from the lamp, so that he can see nikolas in bright light, while he himself sits in the dark. nikolas watches léone's face anxiously and closely during her struggle with death. life slowly seems to return to her, and her breathing becomes more peaceful. she opens her eyes and looks at the people round her, but she is much too enfeebled to speak, and closes her eyes again. marc keeps a close watch on nikolas, who grows paler and paler. his eyes swivel slowly from nikolas to the patient and back to nikolas again.
another fragment of the diary is shown [having to do with vampires].
the blood transfusion is completed. while marc himself is looking after the patient, the nurse leads nikolas into an adjoining room, where she makes him sit down and prepares his bandage. the doctor stands bending over léone.
what is it?
the wound is bleeding!
go to sleep!
what is it now?
i'm losing my blood!
you're losing your blood?
yes!
nonsense! ... it's here! ... your blood ...
