where is john?
performing solo.  enjoying the concert so far?
what did cox pull him out early for?
barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, remember?
do not remind me.
what the hell happened?
lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. if the simulator is not calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of vr is like experiencing death within a dream. the experience becomes real.
simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world.
i was assured the problem was corrected.
my first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
why was not i told?
you all right?
why'd.. .you pull me out?
donley started experiencing the attack for real. if i had not gotten you out, the same thing would have happened to you.  you may not believe this, parker,
what the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for?
he was a computer program for crissake.
you were supposed to act as if everything was real.
real, my ass. it is an overblown game.  anybody ever catch that fucking psycho?
before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first.  new scar  you making it okay in there?
I am getting by.
but with the six months off i get for being your guinea pig, I have only got to survive another 17 years, 5 months, and 23 days.
do not give up, parker. not ever.
you know those cheesy christmas cards of your family under that tree in your back yard you keep sending me every year?
what about them?
do me a favor  keep sending them.
do not be angry with me, daryl.
did you recognize the son-of-a bitch who got away?
should i have?
think hard -- it will come to you...
you embarrassed me in front of the highestranking law enforcement official in the country.  do you have any idea how much money you just cost me?
the reason you insisted on testing my system with prisoners is because of the increased risks involved with increased realism.
of the six prison inmates you have tested  all of whom have had at least some military or survival training - only mr. barnes is still breathing.
I am still making adjustments...
you have had a yearandahalf to make all the adjustments you want, lindenmeyer.  ) elizabeth deane does not give second chances. neither do i. you are fired.
I am what?!
you are to turn over the sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. is that understood?
i understand... i understand perfectly.
how does he know who i am?
he hears...everything.
as a matter of fact, i do.
to the first letac engineer to go into production on prototypes.
as long as you keep overpaying me, I will be the first to go into production on three, and four, as well.
as long as they keep overpaying me, I will keep overpaying you.  ) just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
mr. wallace, i could have 10 of them ready by tomorrow.
do they have to look so...robotic?
at this stage, you either get form or function. you said she wanted function. i gave you function. what are you complaining about?
all they want to produce around here is mediocrity!
true genius is rarely rewarded within its lifetime.
it was you, was not it?
it was me, what?
you amped the neural connectors back up, did not you?  you are the reason the convict died. you are the reason i got fired!
i could not just let them make you bring down my degree of difficulty. I am a triple-twisting, double back flip off the high platform, not a swan dive.
my god...
which god would that be, the one who created me, or the one who created you?  in your world, the lord giveth, and the lord taketh away. but in my world, the one who gave me life does not have the balls to stop a couple of bureaucratic assholes from taking it away.
what do you expect me to do, put your character module in my pocket and just walk you out of here?
i had something a little different in mind.  instead of just playing peeping tom with reilly, why do not you get him to show you what he is been working on after hours?
you actually listen to all those tapes?
no, i just like the effect a tape recorder has on you.  how you feeling today?
a little less than yesterday.
in other words, par for the course.  how do you feel about the simulation you participated in yesterday?
john died.
i know. i was there. i saw the whole thing.  if i was your therapist, i would have advised you against putting yourself back into that kind of situation.
you are not my therapist. you are hear to study me. face it  I am nothing more than a lab rat to you.
that is not true, parker.
if i had died yesterday, you would have already dissected my brain and analyzed it to see if i carry any genetic predisposition toward violence.
what was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
not much. he was just a computer program. nothing more.
you did not see the expression you had on your face when you pulled the trigger. but i did.  you kind of liked it, did not you? that thrill of going over the edge again. of taking out an innocent bystander or two, as long as you got the target...
go to hell.
it was just like before, was not it? was not it?  but you are making progress. instead of killing seven people to get the one you are after, this time there was only one other person involved.
enough!
i need to know what snapped in you. what made you capable of it. you have to make me understand.
i do not have to do anything except survive. and it is taking everything I have got just to do that.
hey!!!
show's over unless i get to see what you have been working on after hours.
i have not been working on anything.
do i get to see it or not?
bastard...  sheila, do not go anywhere. I will be right back.
she is some of your finest work, daryl.
all my work is my finest.
get that fucking thing away from me!
you're...such a wimp.
watching your vr people auto reset gave me the idea.
it is nanotechnology, is not it? machines the size of molecules...
coordinated by polymer neural net.
it feels so.. .real.
it is better than real. it is synthetic flesh. synthetic blood. synthetic organs...  it is a physiological machine.
this is supposed to be years away.
as far as the public is concerned, it is. the reason you got fired, and i got my second demo into production, is I am a lot smarter than you. i never give my best stuff away.
how do you kill it?
separate the character module from the neural net...
... and you get nanodeath.  do not worry, I have got a bunch of other ones.
amazing. i hate to say it, but it is.
i know.  I am ready to incubate something a little more advanced than a coldblooded reptile. if you want to experience the future, meet me in my office in 15 minutes. and bring the sheila 3.2 character module with you...
you catching my drift?
i think i understand what you have in mind...
you need a maid.
what i need is a nymphomaniac.
sid  no!!!
what do you expect me to do, thank him?
you are wasting your time. I am not going to play any more of your goddam games.
parker barnes, I would like you to meet crime czar elizabeth deane.
it is too early in the morning for me to be cordial. you got any coffee?
i watched your simulation, mr. barnes. very impressive. you know, you are the only one to ever go up against sid 6.7 who is still alive.
only because i got pulled out early.
nobody else ever got anywhere near him. nobody else... understands him like you do.
these were taken inside letac an hour ago. pretty pictures, are not they?
I have seen worse.
name was clyde reilly. hardware specialist.  letac surveillance cameras got a picture of the perp as he left the building.
we do not know how, but sid 6.7 made himself into an android.
you mean a nanotech synthetic organism.
whatever.
jesus christ.  can you kill it?
if you can catch him.
think you can do it?
not from in here.
this is a full pardon. it authorizes your immediate release.
recognize this? how would you like your old job back?
catch him and your record's clean.
what happens if i can not catch him?
if sid 6.7 has not killed you, we throw you back in here and you serve out the rest of your sentence.
how do you know i will not run?
this is the newest technology approved for general implementation. it is called a locater implant. every parolee gets one.  we are going to know where you are every second for the rest of your life.
if you try to run, I will hunt you down and kill you myself.
yes or no, mr. barnes?
there is already a task force out looking for lindenmeyer. every other officer in the city will be hunting sid right along with you.
but only you will know he is not human.
ms. deane, you wanted to see me?
we have an emergency situation which requires somebody with expertise in criminal psychology. under the authority vested in me by the president, I am giving you temporary reassignment.
what is the assignment?
you are going to put your theories to practice. I am sending you into the field.
that is also where mr. barnes lost his arms to mathew grimes' booby trap. what is your point, dr. carter?
letting a lunatic like parker barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. at some point, he will go off -- you saw what happened in the simulator. the risk to the public is unacceptably dangerous.
not if you are with him every step of the way.
the man played judge, jury, and executioner with eight people's lives. he lost control and is capable of doing it again.
i understand the risks involved here. but there is nobody better qualified to go after sid 6.7 than barnes. and, there is nobody who knows him better than you. if a situation becomes volatile, you will find a way to quell it. i have complete confidence in you.
i do not need a babysitter.
what you need is a collar.
she is going to help you understand what makes sid 6.7 tick.
what she is going to do is get in my way.
this is the personnel file on the programmer, lindenmeyer. there might be something in it you can use.
she was not part of the deal, cox.
fine  you want to stay here?
officers in toluca lake just found an affluent couple...completely gutted.  so were the first two cops to arrive on scene.
their weapons missing?
sid 6.7 is now armed.
where is my gun?
every day for the last five years, i told myself someday i would be out here again. no more bars. no more guards. no more fights just to stay alive.  every day for the last five years, i told myself that lie.
it was not a lie.
every time i said it, it was. i never really thought i was going to make it.
you all right?
fine. never felt better in my life.  see, I am a good liar.
you ready for this?
do not worry. if i can not handle it, I will just kill everybody.
he was reenacting charles manson's labianca murders.
manson did not kill the first cops to arrive on the scene.
whoever did this wanted to do charlie one better  to improve upon what was already done.
charlie? you say that like you are close, personal friends.
I have spent over 50 hours interviewing him.  charlie killed leno and rosemary labianca because of the ugly way the members of his family had butchered sharon tate. after seeing the blood bath on television, he wanted to show them how it should be done.  the question is, what does charlie have to do with sid 6.7?
i know who would know.
learn anything from lindenmeyer's file?
he had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. all he did day and night was play the violin.
what happened when he was 17?
every music school in the country rejected him and he turned to computers.  stay here.
you have got a problem with me carrying a gun?
do me one favor  if you shoot at anything, make sure I am nowhere near it.
what are you doing?
checking my pulse. it is elevated.  you enjoy frightening me, do not you?
you have studied me, now I am studying you. seems only fair, do not you think?
this lindenmeyer's a real piece of work.
maybe after they catch him, you should write a book about him...
I am surprised you did not write one about me.
I am still working on it.
remember a few years ago when music schools were using a computerized teaching tool that accidently started frying kids' brains?
I have been in prison, remember?
the government must have figured there was no better person to create a psycho than a psycho.
just like they figured there was no better person to catch one...
i am the demon from the bottomless pit...
... here on earth to create havoc and terror. i am war, i am death. i am destruction. david berkowitz, 1977.
i am impressed.
for murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ.
who said that?
hamlet.  what is david berkowitz got to do with sid 6.7?
he is part of the mix. sid 6.7 is a composite.
lindenmeyer put increasingly complex combinations of criminal psychological profiles together to develop the ultimate villain.
creating a whole far more dangerous than the sum of its parts.
but rather than selecting pieces from each individual, he simply let the stronger traits of each individual cannibalize the weaker ones.
this is getting you pumped up, is not it? this is like the world series to you.
as a matter of fact, it is.
remember the bowling ball bag sid carried with him in virtual reality?
dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy factory.  we need to get a look at sid 6.7's final profile.
what we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the sonof-a-bitch before he kills anybody else.
in order to find him, we have to understand what makes him tick...
) daryl lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. but he was singularly the most brilliant student i ever had in a classroom. he created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies...
can you tell us what is on the disc?
) there is one program with approximately 1.3 million lines of programming. it is thoroughly secured, which is not surprising considering lindenmeyer created it.
what are they doing in los feliz?
madison lives two blocks from their present location.
why would they be going there?
i do not know.
i wish we could hear them.
give me your wrist.
give me a goddam break. I am not going to go anywhere alone.
and I am going to make sure of it.  give me your wrist.
told you i was not going to go anywhere.
how did you get your hand out?
why did not you tell me you had a daughter?
i prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal life.
she is beautiful, you know?
thank-you.  her name is karin.
want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house?
i told you, it was on the way and i wanted to change clothes.
you should practice lying more often. you are awful at it.  where to?
sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his programming.
what does that mean?
now that he is in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. sid is going to evolve.
sounds to me like a welleducated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
what i do know is that whatever he is becoming, sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before.
then all we can do is stay mobile and alert. he is got to make a move sometime, and we have got to be ready when he does.  welcome to police work. you better like coffee.
i forgot what real coffee tastes like...
you know, considering you have only been out of prison for seven hours, you are readapting quite well.  wait, i did not mean that the way it sounded. i meant...
do not worry about it, all right?
dammit, i hate sounding so clinical all the time. all i meant to say was i thought you were doing well, but then i...
relax. i know what you meant.
i ruin so many moments by analyzing them when i should just be living them.
then why do not you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a while?
do not get out of the car.
stop me.
what the hell's going on?!
this is my area of expertise.
what did you do to those people?
nothing.
being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, is not it?
enjoying yourself?
you know i am.
this is not a game, parker!
tell him.
the symphony of collision...
the only thing i want to hear is your silence.
i must make them very nervous if they let you out of prison.  you know, we have so much in common  we have such history together I have been thinking we should become friends.
you and me have nothing in common.
who else do you know who touches the world with synthetic hands?
what is the problem?
I am doing the best i can!
... illegal search of lindenmeyer' s duplex. eleven civilian vehicles damaged or destroyed. twentyfour citizen complaints. and the calls are just starting to come in...  i forgot what it is like to have you on the streets.
any sign of lindenmeyer?
none. he could be hiding, he could be helping sid, or could be in little pieces on santa monica beach.  any idea what sid's going to do next?
until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can not be sure.
in other words, we collectively do not know shit.
it makes me nervous just seeing him in a uniform.  i will never forget the first time i saw the photos from the crime scene.
neither will the public.  the media has caught wind of his pardon. unless mr. barnes starts giving me some tangible results, I am going to put him back in his cage.
in english, please.
i accidently triggered a protection mechanism which erased the entire program.
it was very wellhidden. there was no way to see it until it was too late.
it is not your fault. we appreciate you trying.
look, i feel bad about this, so I am going to try to look into the programming of his maestro teaching tool for you.  ) I have had one sitting around for years. maybe i can learn something that you will find useful.
whatever he was doing here was only the start.
start of what?
i do not know, yet. what we do know is his performances are increasing in scale, not decreasing.  whatever it is, he is not finished...
it is not just sid 6.7's performances that are increasing. stars need bigger and bigger audiences.  whatever sid is going to do next, it is going to involve media.
you like baseball?
real effective security...
you could have just flashed him your badge, you know?
authority still makes me nervous.
which way?
both.
parker - stop! stop! do not make me shoot you
if you are going to do it, better do it now.
grimes is back! he is back! he is come back!!!
no! grimes is not back. he is only one part of sid. sid 6.7 is a hell of a lot worse than grimes ever was.  get a hold of yourself!
i should have told him.
do not blame yourself. in your shoes, i do not think i would have told parker, either.  so do you think grimes has become the dominant personality?
I am not sure. my guess is that is what sid wants us to think.
you think he is smart?
captain, I am afraid of how smart sid 6.7 is.  but I am even more afraid of what is he is becoming.
you...mother...fucker! I am going to kill you!!!
now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? i mean, just because I am carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me does not mean we can not be friends.
grimes, you are dead!
I am sorry, the party you are trying to reach is not answering. is there anyone else you would like to talk to?
dead! you hear me?
you really are pathetic, you know that? mathew grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. he is nothing compared to me.
barnes would not kill two innocent guards.
he would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
do i need to remind you what happened to his wife? to his daughter?  i will stake my reputation that barnes did not kill those guards.
you already have staked your reputation.  mayor bennett and i have been friends a long time. since grimes tried to kill him, it does not take a rocket scientist to come to the conclusion that sid 6.7 might go after him, too.  bennett's re-election rally is tomorrow night and we already have enough trouble on our hands with one psychotic on the loose.  the fail-safe online, yet?
there is no way parker killed those guards. no way.
i think we both know who did.  what is so urgent?
i need your help--
why did not anybody tell me?!
i do not set policy.  you have the key?
give me 30 seconds, then flip every switch you can reach.
got it.
we know you did not kill those guards.
they are going to fry me for it, anyway.
do not worry, they have no idea where you are.
you sonofabitch. how could you let them put the implant in my head? how?
he did not know about the neural toxin.  i did.
you knew the entire time? can you give me one good reason why i should not kill you right now?
she saved your life, parker. she did not have to, but she did.
then i guess we are even.
how did you find out about the toxin?
sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. he suggested i kill you rather than him.
you are not capable of it.
i pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember?
i was wrong.  and i was wrong not to tell you grimes was part of sid. i should have told you. i will not make the same mistake again.
when this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head?
on my life, i promise you i will.
if you are lying, I will hunt you down and kill you myself.
the rally's a little obvious as a target, do not you think?
i told you before, grimes liked to be obvious.
sid 6.7 is not grimes.
part of him is.
if we find sid, lindenmeyer will not be far behind.
think he is keeping track of his creation?
that, or living through him...
see something?
I am not sure...on the bridge...the guy at the payphone...
nice work.
thanks.
i would not pull the trigger if i were you
why is that?
what c-4...was cox talking about?
let me put it to you this way... whether I am here...or whether I am not...i'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
where did you plant the c-4?!
find out anything?
a bomb's going off tomorrow night, but i have no idea where.
can i ask you something?
you mean there is something you have not asked me?
you have already fulfilled the terms of your pardon. you stopped sid 6.7 and you have got his module. you are free to go  right now.  why are you going to do this?
you do not know?
that is why I am asking.
because this painintheass criminal psychology expert has helped me understand what I am capable of. and what I am not.  and better than anyone else, i am capable of stopping sid 6.7.
what c-4...was cox talking about?
let me put it to you this way... whether I am here... or whether I am not...i'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
where did you plant the c-4?!
you can not die until you tell me where the c-4 is. where is it?!
my...secret.
i told you this would work.. by setting back the clocks, he has absolutely no idea he is in virtual reality. he still thinks he is in the real world.
what is wrong with parker?
how should i know?
show me his physical sensory level.
i wonder how that...
turn it down!
he is developing a hemisphere imbalance.
talk so i can understand.
if i do not adjust the level of neural information each side of his brain is receiving, he will not be able to walk when i take him out of vr.
then fix it.
it is really too bad you have to miss the grand finale.
i thought you liked me being in the audience. do not you want me to see it?
there you go  best seat in the house.
you are going after mayor bennett.
let's just say I am sending a very clear message to his reelection rally...
are not you going to watch with me?
I have got some final preparations to take care of checking his watch, he stops suddenly.
thank-you, daryl.  you had me going for quite a while there, sport.
what are you talking about?
i really did think i was still in reality. at least, until now.  beam me up, scotty!
i am beautiful, are not i?
of course you are.
how can i ever thankyou for bringing me back to life a second time, daryl?
help me get out of here.
glad to...
you made me a composite of 183 of the most vicious people who ever lived.  what do you think I am doing?
I am begging you...please do not kill me! please!
do not worry. through me, you will live forever...
you okay?
...i think so...you?
more or less.
lindenmeyer?
my guess is dead.
sid?
i do not know.
barnes, where the hell have you been?!
trying to find out where the bomb is. where the hell have you been?
what did you find out?
call off the manhunt looking for me. i did not kill the transport guards.
it is already been called off. witnesses confirmed you were not the shooter.  did you find out where the bomb is?
no, but I have confirmed the reelection rally is the target.  how much c-4 is missing?
enough to level an entire city block.
if i were you, I would get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the biltmore hotel.
demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. i do not know where...
sid is smart enough to know you would check everywhere in the immediate area. whatever the device is, he is probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates.  have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
you know how much man power you are talking about?
you are the highest law enforcement official in the country. use the fucking army if you need to.
this better not be a wild goose chase.
or what, you will authorize my death a second time today?
do not forget, convict, if this psycho is not stopped, you go right back to rotting in a prison cell.
you son-ofabitch, I am going to kill you.
me? what did i do?
I am sorry, i thought you were somebody else.
I have discovered something about lindenmeyer'5 maestro teaching tool i thought you should know...  the harm done to the music students who used the device  it was not by accident. the machine was designed explicitly for that purpose. lindenmeyer intended to hurt the kids using it.
jesus christ.  i know who the dominant personality is.  lindenmeyer.
where the hell are you going?
lindenmeyer never got over wanting to kill kids with more musical than he had...
now, is that any way to talk to an old friend?
barnes, you are dead!
how is your pulse?
i could not tell you.
then shoot him already.
duck!
what do we do now?
you will not want to watch. turn around.
