who we got here...?
john levy, staff, and amy cain, press off....
alright.  look here, any of you kids hear in this room:  what you hear here, what you say here, what you do here, f'it got out, you leaked it.  tell'em what they need to know.
when it broke, he said one word:  get me ronnie brean.
well.  alright.  what is it?  what's, he, uh...?  he had an illegal immigrant, was his gardener, some years back...?  what is the thing?  you people get ahead, you sure get nervous.
it can be documented that he displayed the...
this am not the illegal immigrant nanny.
there was a group of girlscouts here from indiana last month.  one of them expressed an interest in a frederick remington bust.  the president took her into the oval office, for a period...
three minutes.  it could not have been over three minutes, the secret service...
okay.  and she is alleging...?
we are virtually certain it isn't...
who is got the story?
do not you want to know if it is true?
what difference does it make if it is true?  it is a story, and, it breaks they are going to have to run with it -- how long've we got til it breaks?
front page.  washington post.  tomorrow.
well, yeah.  now.  that is not good.  okay:  okay.  we will set up the war room here...
china.
when is he coming back...?
touchdown, andrews, fourteen hundred, today.
alright, now, here:  he stays on the ground in china til tomorrow.
...why?
...you the press office?
...yes.
earn your money.  ...he's ill, the plane is sick...
...good...
when do we bring'em back?
you got to give me a day.  i need a day.  he is sick, get it out now.  get him on the phone'n tell him how sick he is.  we got to get it out before the story breaks, so we are not quote, responding to it. issue is as a bulletin.  he is got some rare strain of...
it will not hold.
all i need is the one day.
it will not even hold the one day, ronnie --
yes -- it will... now:  why is the president in china?
trade re1ations.
you are goddamn right.  and it is got nothing to do with the b-2 bomber.
there is no b-2 bomber,
that is what I am telling you.  the two things:  the two things:  rare strain of flu, no cause to be alarmed.  and the b-2 bomber...  clear me a space.  get me a copy, go rob one, get it off the computer, wash post, n.y. times,
you want some research, flu?  side-effects of medi....
naw, we can not play this one catch-up.  that is how long since you stopped beating the wife.  we have to...
we are going to have to explain away the...
they caught him in the closet with a girlscout.  side- effects of a pill am not gone trump that.  you have to keep'em guessing for  two weeks.  you  do not have to cure cancer, pal, you just have to give them something more interesting than...
what is more interesting than boffing the girlscout?
well, that is what we are doing here...
car and a driver, mr. brean, the westgate, now, please...
okay, look, who is takin' the press conference today?
is there a press conference today?
what do you think?  what i need from you:  i need a base of operations.  some place in the district.  i need some clean money ...
how much...?
and, to hold it together, i need two days.  there is no b-2 bomber:  here's what you do ahout that:  whoever is leaking stuff to that geek at the post, lets it slip, "geez, i hope this does not screw up the b-2 program..." "what b-2 program, and why should it screw it up?"  "if the president moves to deploy the b-2 before it is fully tested."  "deploy the b-2, why?"  "in the crisis."
what crisis?
I am working on it.  same time, you call billy scott at joint chiefs, and pour him onna plane right now to seattle, y'got that...?  all flustered and worried. to talk to the boeing people.
do it...
and you?
but there is not a b-2 bomber.
where did you go to school, kid.  wellesly?
dartmouth
then show a little spunk.  there is no b-2 bomber, general scott, the best of your knowledge, is not in seattle to talk with boeing...
it will not hold.
one day, two days?  course it is going to hhhh....
it will not hold, ronnie, it will not prove out.
we do not need it to prove out.  we need it to distract them for two weeks til the election.
what would do that...?
what in the world would do that?
I am working on it.
gimme twenty thousand dollars.
I will be back within the hour.  now,
it is going to be fine.  it is going to be ... you remember in 88, when...
what is it?
it is the rough-cut, the other side's new commercial.
twenty thousand dollars.
yeah, I am going to have to go to l.a.
gemme a plane.  business aviation, national, one hour. fly to chicago.  o'hare, lax 6 a.m.
I will see you at national.
tell, tell, tell me again.
....we landing?
tell me again.
lookit, do not worry about it.  it is not a new concept. wake me when we touch down, will...
we can not afford a war.
we are not going to have a war.  we are going to have the "appearance" of a war.
I am not sure we can afford to have the "appearance" of a war.
what is it going to cost?
but, but, but, "they" would find out.
who would find out?
...the...
the american "people"?
yes
who is going to tell'em.
...but...
what did they find out about the gulf war?  one shot: one bomb, falling though the roof, building coulda been made of legos.
...you want us to go to war...
...that's the general idea.
why?
why not, what have they ever done for us...?  also:  they sound... ah, you see, this is why we have to mobilize the b-2 bomber...
...they sound what?
shifty.  who knows anything about em...
hold on, hold on, hold on:
well, I am going to hold on, but you went to win this election, you better change the subject.  you wanna change this subject, you better have a war.  what do you need?  it is got to be quick, it is got to be dramatic, you got to have an enemy.  okay?  what do you need in an enemy?  somebody you fear.  who do you fear? som'b'y you do not know.
who?
well, I am working on it....
yes.
why?
what do you know about them?
...nothing...
precisely.
what did albania ever do to us?
what did they ever do for us...?  you see, this is why we have to mobilize the b-2 bomber.
...you want us to go to war with albania.
here's what you got to do:  get your press office, right now.  to deny;  there is no report of albanian activity.  they have to deny it. now, get the c.i.a.
do i know you?
we have some mutual friends in washington.
waal, mr. moss, i wouldn't....
you would not be here if it was not true.  it is true, right?
and you are here why...?
I am here, mr. moss, because you have shown yourself a great supporter of the party.
party's going to need more than a couple bucks now.
what one has to do, mr. moss.  is to fight a holding action.
...holding action.  they are going to tear this guy to shreds.
if we can hold the break-in-the-dam for ten days, til the election, we...
yeah, hut you can not hold the dam.  how the hell, n'nu'n', i do not get what you want me to ...
what do you want the kid to say?
have him say, 'i know we are all concerned for the president, there will he an update at 5:45.'
string a few together.  all i need's eleven,
how you going to stretch it?  this will not hold for eleven days.  guy fucked a twelve- year-old...whadday're going to do to hold that off?
what do you think would hold it off?
uh, nothing, oh, nothing ... uh... a war, uh...  you are kidding.
I am a jew in show business.  why come to me?
I am going to tell you why...
here's the short course:  fifty-four, forty or fight. what does that mean?
uh, it is a slogan.  from, uh...
remember the maine...
that is from the ... it is got to be from the...
tippecanoe and tyler, too!
...uh ... no, that's...
we remember the slogans, we can not even remember the fucking wars.  y'know why.  cause it is show business. that is why I am here.  naked girl, covered in napalm. five marines raising the flag, mount suribachi. churchill, v for victory, y'remember the picture, fifty years from now, they will have forgotten  the war.  gulf war?  smart bomb, falling through the roof.  2500 missions a day, 100 days, one shot of one bomb.  the american people bought that war. m'i getting through to you?  war in the balkans, do not mean nothing, till some g.i. flyer, went down, eating snakes for ten days. n'then it is show business, mister moss.  that is why I am here.
it is like being a producer, mr. moss.  the things in trouble.  somebody is got to wade in, save the thing.  you get the actors get up there, and strut and posture.  but somebody, knows what is what, got to jump in and save the thing.
why albania?
why not?
who?
the...
"they got to know?"  stan...?  get with it.  who killed kennedy...?  i read the first draft of the warren report, said he was killed by a drunk driver.  you watched the gulf war.  what did you see?  day after day, the one "smart bomb" falling into a building. the truth, i was in the building when they shot that shot, they shot it in a studio, falls church virginia, 1/10th scale model of a building.
is that true?
how the fuck do we know.  you take my point?
...going to war...
it is not "war."  it is a pageant.  it is a pageant... like the oscars... why we came to you...
i never won an oscar.
n'it's a crying shame.  but you staged the oscars...
yes.  indeed i did.
you know, you are a writer, that is your script.  you are a director...  but if you are the producer ... what did you do?  what did you do?  all you have got is the credit...  some plaque on the wall...
and if you never won an oscar, how did you like an ambassadorship...
hell, I would just do it for the hell of having done it, for a story to tell...
well, no, well, you could not tell any...
hey, i know that, hey, I am kidding...  "it's a pageant"
...that's what it is.
"the country is at war."
it is miss america, n'you're bert parks.
...yoha, yoha... yoha.  <i>why</i> albania?
because.
they got to have something that we want.
I am sure they do.
what do we have that they want?
"freedom."
why would they want that?
alright, well, alright:  geopolitically...
we have just found out they have the bomb.  we have just found out they have the bomb, aaaand... no, no wait a second, no, no, wait a second, no.  the bomb's not... it is not there -- because they would have to have a rocket and that shit n'they're a buncha wogs-- it is ... it is a suitcase bomb.  ooookay.  it is a suitcase bomb, and it is .... in canada!  eh?  albanian terrorists have placed a suitcase bomb in canada, in an attempt to infiltrate the bomb into the usa.
you know what?  this is good.  this is terrific, and I will tell you why:  it is cost effective.  this is....
it is producing.
no, this is great.
i could tell you stories:  cecil b. demille:  alright? the greatest show on earth:  he needs an elephant,
i have the white house on the line.
...one minute:  demille needs an elephant for a reshoot.
ames here.  yessir...
okay.  okay.  the suitcase bomb...
...the suitcase bomb.  act one albania denies it. president comes on the air, "be calm."  okay, now: good.  now, alright.  act two...  i need the following here.  right now:  johnnie green, liz butsky, and get me the fad king.
is not johnny green in the...
no, he is back in nashville.
...who is this guy...?
act two:  and then, act two...
we do not need an act two.
and get me the fad king.  no.  get him first...  we do not need an act two?
we have just got to hold their interest for ten more days, till the election.
...it's a teaser!
it is a teaser, absolutely right,
the thinking is, as of this moment, terrorism...  ...they're getting a good reaction on the "albania" thing...
hello, king.  how the heck are you...?  get out...  get out... well, man, you fall in love like a hillbilly...  ditch the wife, toss the kids in the pick-up,   listen, king:  get your fat redneck ass out here, willya...
...but the president wonders about the possible albanian backlash...
you can not have a war without an enemy.
no, king, i need you here yesterday...  how long do i need him for?
well, you could have one, but it would be a very ineffective war...  we are done in 10 days...
ten days.  there going to be any back end in this thing?
w...what?
...there gonna be any money in this thing?
"back end" ... count on it.
lots n lotsa cash.  stay on for gracie, she will get you a ticket
...where is the back end coming from?
it is like that thing with the yellow ribbon...
the thing with the yellow ribbon...
the hostages...?
the hostages, but that was a naturally-occuring...  it was a put-up job?  but where was the, where was the money in that?
in the yellow ribbon.
...the yellow ribbon, but who, who would profit from that...
the ribbon manufacturers.
king, king, i got a thing here, a product placement, gonna have a bigger back-end than hattie mcdaniel. now:
i gotta protect the canadian horder,
why can not it be a ribbon?
it can not be a ribbon cause aids had a ribbon, cause the yellow ribbon thing had a ribbon, cause...
look, look, look, look, canada, okay...?  our neighbor to the north, alla sudden, transformed, into that place, where, like the north wind, terror comes...
keep talking....
what guards us against canada...?
uh...uh... mounties.  the mounties guard the border. uh... those mountie hats.
they look stupid.
we had davy crockett hats... they made a fortune.
we had davy crockett hats, but you could crush'em ... you could crush'em, see, when you felt stupid. crush'em, put em in your pocket.  you can not put a mountie hat in your...
y'see, this is what producing is:  you put me in a room...
...and he is got a negative rating of...
king, we have got to be on the streets in...
...what am i doing?  do you see me working...?  here's what you want to do, you want to come out of the box, an item, someone 'ready has, but then you sell it to'em.  torn jeans, uh ... faded levi jackets, uh... uh...
where are we on the image?  grace?  grace...
over a sleeping brean, stretched out on a poolchair, grace, the secretary, comes out on to the pool area, holding the shot of a small, foreign looking child, in front of a pile of rubble. she shows it to moss.
...we own it?
public domain.
and what?  what?  she was driven from her home, by albanian terrorists.  it is her we are mobilizing to defend... it is "she"?
we-are-mobilizing-to-defend-her.
can we give'er a kitten?
no problem.  here's the...
i gotta get something, i gotta get ...shoes?  ties? hats...?  good.  good.
...what is this?
headshots.  girls to play the girl in our footage.  i like the sorrowful one.  anybody else....?
...what is this?
i go with this here...
too texan.  go with the stick.  thanks.  what...? ...does it have to be albania...we're locked into albania...why?
it is tough to rhyme.
i believe in you....
albania, albania, albania, james bond villains.
john belushi... jim belushi...
jim belushi...?
surest thing you know.
shoes, hats....
the special hats of the special anti-terrorist detachment of the border patrol.
the special anti-terrorist detachment of the border patrol... what do they do...?
...they... you know...
they guard our, you know ... "borders," night and day...
yeah, good good good good good.  and they are so secret...
oh huh...
...they have the capacity to meld into the woods, and...
and one of them is in love with the sister of...
I am just talking about the hats.
the hats.
a beret.
why a beret?
cause you can crush it and put it in your pocket.
"...the special detachment..." good!  what is it?
three-o-three...
the men and women of detachment three-o-three, with their...
black...
leopard skin...
with their berets...
...their leopard skin berets....
well, that am not very butch, is it?
it is a beret...
...i meant the leopard skin...
british regiments drape their drums in leopard skins.
thank god this is america.
bunny:  i had an idea:  a slinky, that falls up...  naa, we can figure that out.  what I am wondering:  what do we call it...  you got my number...
why are they ...
ny times, washington post, war, war, war.  times got the girlscout page twelve, post in section two.... horses in mid-stream...?
i do not think you are going to need it.
well, we paid for it, we got the guys on a retainer.
they got the guys on a retainer, it is cheaper, pay'em, but do not lettem touch it... let'em leave us alone.
what can it hurt.
what can it hurt is they offend me.
i need a ruling on the hats.  i say a leopard-skin, and...
hey, you're getting the big bucks....  i think we are up-and-running...
i did not ask for a dog.
...the pet wrangler suggested it..he's also got a...
do it later...  okay,  now, "the little girl," who is she, what is she doing?  she is....she's ...okay, okay, it is an albanian village... she is the victim of, she has been relocated, to, to, for the terrorists, the government labs...the, the... a staging area for their atomic workshop.  they are torturing her family, because they have connections in canada, which would permit the terrorists access to the american border.
better.
you like it?
yes.
fine.  good.
would somebody wake me in five minutes?
does it have to be albania?  because, lookit:  i can get my hands on a lot of walking-around-cash, i think, if it is italy...look at the tie-in here:  the boot, "givvem the boot,"... if we were to go wide with a shoe as the fad.  a "shoe-fad"...  here's what it offers us...
we are locked into albania.
well, let's not be too sure, why is that?
the president is going to declare war against albania in a half an hour.
okay.  here's what we are going to do.
i need a little bit of help...?
miss, we are going to ask you to sign this little sheet of paper...
someone is bringing in a kitten...?
no, no, no.... we will punch in a kitten.  um... later.
...you're going to punch in a kitten later.
yes.
why...?
a wider option of what?
...of kittens...
and...she's not an illegal immigrant?  is she?  can i see her "chart?"  because...
gonna be fine.  gonna be fine, people?  are we getting there...?
...can we see the kitten...?
hello... yes.  we will be back...?
we will be back tonight.
tonight.  well, you have started a tempest in a teapot.
waal, that is where you want em...
...i just hope...
....beautiful.
of course, we are going to need some water, uh...
is it a stream, or is it a...
no, i think..
a "pond," or
no, i think it is ... can we see the calico kitten...?
a small, "calico" kitten, sir.  "calico."
...can we have a white one...?
can we have a white one, please...
why is this putz on the air...
... they are checking the ratings...uh...
...hell of a price for the country to pay.
...take a long view.
...what's the long view?
your guy gets four more years in washington...  ...it's only nine more days.
yes.  that is true.  but...
wilfred.  we have got work to do...
new york times, wash post, detroit register, san diego bee, all in emission.  no mention of the girlscout. none.
eight days to go
i live for midnight, when i can tear another of those suckers off.  watcha got for me?
big bird touches down when?
we are bring'n im in tomorrow, five am.
anything at the airport?
press thought "no," whaddaya think...?
i think, here's what i think:  s'it going to rain...?
gimme the weather for tomorrow morning, five a.m. andrews...
an albanian, a young albanian girl.
no rain.
a young albanian girl, dressed in their...
and carrying.  the national flower of albania, something..... now is it some festival?  some harvest festival, something...
get on this, right now...
...got to be something.  she gives him the sacred...  and tells him:  this is the traditional harvest offering, given to the man who ties the first sheaf, the last sheaf, whatever the fuck it is...
...this's good...
stanley moss, ladeesngennlmen... and she says...
is she saying this in albanian...?
yes:  she is saying this in albanian, but she is doing it not to be uh...  but because, she explains, that is the only way it can be understood by her aged and sainted mother, who is standing there with her, dressed in her traditional...
our adopted land...
...but to the old world; you are stilling the forces of hatred and of war which have, since i was a child...
...uh huh...
now, the old lady starts to weep, big bird shrugs off his secret service, goes to her, and covers her with his own coat.
find out is there any chance we can get some rain tomorrow, will you...?
so forth...
catching up on his reading.  asked about you, sends his thanks.
knock on wood.
speaking of thanks... we puttem back in, what does your fellow moss want?
i dunno.... ambassador to togo, somethin', i dunno... he...
maybe he is just a patriot.
yeah...what was i talking about...?
how long you been up, you need a nap.
due in nashville.
nashville...?
we are going to do the team song.
you are tired, ronnie.
y'wanna follow the cattle drive?  sleep in the winter. what does moss want...?  matchmaker comes to the levinsky family.  mr. levinsky, mrs. levinsky, would you entertain an offer of marriage for your son saul, from princess margaret of great britain.  well, they think, she is not jewish, but she is well to-do, a nice old family.  alright, yes, they say.  we would consider such an offer.  wonderful, matchmaker says, my job is half done.  now, look:  i got the file, from the l.a. contingent, i got the day-by-day, of how...
...this is magnificent.
...stanley moss...
8 days and we bring it back home....
none of these are ours.  none of em are ours....  ....that's real politik, buddy.
waal, i got to tell you.  I have been inside the beltway fourteen years, and i feel like i just got my feet wet.
...i just missed my plane.
you missed your plane?  my life is over.  my life is over.  what have you done to me?  what have i done?  fourteen years of public service...
well, keep your wits about you, and let's see if we can't...
...fourteen years...
...brazen-it-through...
brazen it through?  brazen it through?  they are going to hang us out to dry like the laundry --- do you know what we have ddd...
oh, migod.
guess who i am.
I would like to mention a few names, who...
i know who you are, mr. ames.
i was acting as a private citizen.  nothing that I have done should be construed as reflecting on the orders or intentions of anyone with whom you may have reason to believe i am connected with.  or in whose employ...
quite touching.
and i take this opportunity to suggest that, equally, i admit to nothing, and that i would like my lawyer present.
guess what?  we show, and n.s.a. confirms, there are no nuclear devices on the canadian border.  there are no nuclear devices in albania.  z'at put us in something of a pickle?  albania has no nuclear capacity.  our spy satellites show "no secret terrorist camps" in the albanian hinterland.  the f.b.i. and the border patrol, and the r.c.m.p. report no repeat no untoward activity along our picturesque canadian border.  the albanian government is screaming its innocence, the world is listening.  there is no war.
course there is a war.  I am watching it on television.
n'who might you be, when all's said and done?
my name is ronald brean.
who are you working for?
nobody whose name you want me to say, mr. young, i promise you.
s'all very well, but when the fit hits the shan, somebody is going to have to stay after school, and who do you 'spose that might be.
s'only got to hold for another few days.
well, I am not interested in how long its "got to hold for."
what are you interested in?
I am interested in the security of my country, mr. brean.
as are we all, and I would like to take this opportunity to suggest that the security of the country would be ill- served by any, any...any...
any untoward "revelation" regarding, uh...
and i think that the security of the country would be best-served by its citizens obeying its laws.  gemme a federal judge, gemme search-warrants, all premises controlled by our friends, and bench-warrants for the two of...
well, I am sure that speaks very well of you and for your parents.  but if forced to choose between the security of the country and the security of your job, which would you pick.  and, while you hesitate, permit me to suggest that they are one and the same.  your country and your job.
I am doing my job, mr. brean.  that is what you see me doing here.  what is it you thought you were doing?
and I would like to point out that I have been on prescription medication, the side-effects of which...
I am doing my job, too.  would you give me a... do you think you could call off your dogs for a minute.
what is on your mind?
i have a question for you.
ask it.
why do people go to war?
why do people go to war?
I will play your silly game.
why do they go to war?
to preserve their way of life.
would you go to war to do that?
i have.
well, i have, too.  would you do it again...?  in't that why you are here?  i guess so.  n'if you go to war again, who is it going to be against?  your "ability to fight a two-ocean war" against who?  sweden and togo? who you sitting here to go to war against?  that time has passed.  it is passed.  it is over.  the war of the future is nuclear terrorism.  it is and it will be against a small group of dissidents who, unbeknownst, perhaps, to their own governments, have blah blah blah. and to go to that war, you have got to be prepared.  you have to be alert, and the public has to be alert. cause that is the war of the future, and if you are not gearing up, to fight that war, eventually the axe will fall.  n'you're going to be out in the street.  and you can call this a "drill," or you can call it "job security," or you can call it anything you like. but i got one for you:  you said, "go to war to protect your way of life,"  well, chuck, this  is your way of life.  innit?  and if there am not no war, you can punch out, go home, and take up oil painting.  and there ain't no war but ours.
no.  i was busy.  yes, i need the new poll fig.... how long?  I will call in from nashville.  and patch me through to the big bird, will...?  I have got to hand it to you.  they sure let us out of there easy....
...they just had not thought it through...
we got the guy, we got the guy, we got the guy!
the canada thing was a shuck.  a shuck -- wasted a day. what can you do with canada?  bears, mapleleafs, "sugar -on-snow."  lays there on the plate like a lox.
what is it?
president's speech.
at the airport?  cause we decided at the airport he hugs the fat, wet albanian broad, we...
no, no, no, no, no after the airport.
he just got hip to us.  he just ended the war.
what are we gonna do about it...?
what are we going to do?
the war is over.
what?
the war is over.  senator nole just ended the war.
oh, god...
yep.  well, we started it, he ended it...
oh, lord....
...those limp-dick ... turncoat... i thought they let us out of there too easy.....
war's over, pal.
gloria -- sell the house.
the war am not over.
i saw it on tv.
the war am not over til i say it is over.  this is my picture.  you think you are in a spot?  you think this is a tight spot?  try making the hunchback of notre dame when your three lead actors die, two weeks from the end of principal photography.  this is... this is... this is just...  act one:  the war. act two ... the... uh...
it is like those japanese in the caves on okinawa... did not believe the war was over.
you got a guy, does not believe the war is... no no no. an american serviceman... a brave american serviceman, is left behind ...  he is left behind.  he is discarded like an old shoe...  gemme the pentagon.  list of people in all military special programs.... left behind.  like the old shoe... johnny: "good old shoe"...
hello...?
yeah, i need a list, people in military special pro...
...what do you got?
military special programs... programs... no, i am not shouting at you, i'm... I am sorry.  anyone named shoe schumann?  schuster... uh
do not tune it too good.
leave it flat, will you, ben?
william schuman.  old shoe.  u.s. army.  serial number, 21-31-2841-262.
take ten.
hold it a minute, benny, willya?
it is too clean.
let's take the bridge from nine, and the intro from one, and...
it is got to sound like an acetate recording, 1930.
hold it a minute, benny, we are going to tweak it a bit.  this may take a while.
a new take on the...  well, sir, we are coming back, we would like you to try it out, this evening...
listen to what I have ... listen to... does anybody know morse code?
what are you going to do with morse code?
...we put your guy in a sweater...
yeah...?
"good old shoe -- "  we put him in a sweater.
he can not respond to the allegations.  i do not care how many girlscouts are picketing the ... look, look, look, we are coming home with gold.  eh? tell him to hold firm for two hours... coming home with gold.
did we ever use those costumes for the border patrol? those guys in the leopard-skin hats?  here's my idea....
...this is a snappy song....
what did ya think?
i think it is fine?
it is not too clean...
no, it's...  i'll, yes, I am holding, but...  no, it is ...
in the folk music section.
in the folk music section.  we will be in in...
...this the guy.
oh, he is going to be aces.
where is he now?
some, military... special program, oklahoma somewhere...
...we get our hands on him?
they got him standing by.
what is the thing with morse code...
oh, you are going to love this:
hey, hey, I am just the producer, I am just the stationmaster, johnny green wrote that song, and...
all we have to do now is sell it to the president.
my prop guy, had a guy out here.
get it in the stacks at the library of congress, now.  who is seeing the guy at c.b.s.?
...tonight...
you are with him tonight, watching the president's speech, when the president...
what if he is busy tonight?
lure him.
what are you saying...
well, darlin' i am not your confessor.  tell him you have got some info on the president's sex scandal, it is on your conscience, believe me, he will drop what he is doing.  okay;  now:  folks, folks, folks, this is a shitty business, and it needs no ghost come from the grave to tell us that.  but in six days, lord willing n'jesus tarries, i am going to take you beauties into the second term. .....wait til you hear the speech tonight.  the 3-0-3 speech... where is the fad king, by the way...
...on the way in.
when you...  what?  I am busy.
it is the white house.
hello.  what?
what?
what do you mean he will not do it?  he will not do what?  he will not do the sp...  it is what?  it is corny?  corny?  is that the word?  of course it is corny.  we would not have him say the flippin' thing it was not corny.  put... listen, it is not a question, we are locked in to this speech.  no we're, are you listening?  locked in.  we're, we are playing way past it, we are past it -- it is the set-up for...he has got to say the speech.  tell ames to meet me at the west gate in...
he thinks it is too...
first of all, we are locked in to it, secondly:
mr. president, this is st...
hi, how are ya?  listen to this, willya...
ronnie says we do not need'em for another four days.  ...s'there a problem?
no.  no...pentagon says, army's got'em, they got'm in ..."custody"...
how is your wife?
fine.
the threat of nuc1ear terrorism has been quelled.  we are in contaot with the albanian premier, who assures me, and this government credits his assurances, that his country does not wish us ill, and has not.  that the threat which we perceived was not of his wish, or of his making.
cain, mouthing along, with the speech, she looks down, and we see written, on her copy. of his making
as we look up, we see the president biting his lip, and continuing with the speech.
from whence did it come?  our information states it came from a small group of armed, dissidents.  of armed and violent dissidents...
on cain, as she looks around.
but that group has been, in the main, subdued.  now: how did we come by this information?  and.  who subdued that group?
cain looks down at her script.  shrugs, and looks up.
on the presscorp, the reporters, listening widemouthed, to the president's speech.
it falls to me to reveal to you a secret.  to reveal the existence of a secret group of warriors. men, yes, and women, trained and pledged their strength, their skills, and, if called upon, their lives, in the service of their fellow americans. a group so secret, its very existence has been known to just a few, and known not by a name, but by a designation number, three-oh-three...
...member of the group, was left behind what were, then, enemy lines.
on liz, as she walks through the h.q., on a board we see "days till election 6" and % in favor 82%.  a huge tv shows the president.
and i can only say, to those family members, of group 303, which members are, i know, as i speak, gathering to comfort you, the parents of the missing man, i can only say,
not bad for government work.  having a good time.
have not had so much fun since live tv.
the president, holding the photograph
dashes and dots.  and those dots spell out a message in the morse code. and that message is, "courage, mom..."  and he got the message through. "courage.  mom..."  well, to the family of william a. schumann, to the men and women of unit 303, to my fellow citizens i say "courage."  i have informed the albanian government, and i inform you, that we will not rest until the safe return of sergeant schwn&nn.  I am told his unit mates gave him the nickname, "old shoe."  ladies and gentleman, we will not treat him like an old shoe, we...
young person's apartment, night.
...we will not be swayed, will, will not be swayed from every effort to find our old shoe, our...
mmm...
you do your job right, nobody should notice.
mmm.
s'only when you fuck up, everything gets full of shit.  do you think we could line him up for the peace prize?
hey, our job ends at the finish line.
yes, but i, well, you know...
just for the symmetry of the thing...?
...that's right.
if they can give kissenger the peace prize, i would not be surprised to wake up and find I would won the preakness.
well, yes, but the guy did bring peace.
yes, but there was not a war.
all the greater accomplishment.
what about it?
for schumann.
well, well, well, well, wait a minute, we got 86 percent.  we bring'em back tomorrow, the charts go up, they do not go down...
all part of the service we render.
he am not seen nothin' yet.
when do you bring'em back?  schumann.
schumann. we are going to go pick him up tonight.
where is he?
out in oklahoma.
going to make a little stop back home, pick up my shirts, show him a little treat.
see y'at the finish line.
tell'em to fly the inaugural speech past me.
inaugural speech, press corp's going to be jealous of giving up that one...
hey, lemme close out the thing in style.
I have come to feel it is my thing.  you know, you take a job... you take a job, and, many times, it is just a job.  and then...
hell of a ride, stanley...
...isn't it?  hey, what-the-hey ... it is all part of the bittersweet...
pride of a job-well-done...
it is the pride of a job well done, stanley, yes, but it is more than that.
...mmm?
it is the gratitude of your party, and of your president...
izzat the thing...
indeed it is.
against...who could be aggressor....help me out here...units of 303, the defense department confirms, early this morning, albanian time, stormed a mountain hideaway, near the city of -- help me out here -- and freed a tired, but happy william schumann, suffering no casualties.  his condition is reported as guarded, and his route to the us has not been disclosed, but a high white house source confirms he is expected in washington tomorrow morning...no, that is for the wire service.  moss's working on big bird's inaugural.  nine a.m...?  nine?  miss the commuters, but...
...we'll gettim in their cars.
yeah, we will gettem in their cars.  I am slowing down...  no, no.  look, lookit:  i think it is a mistake, well, I will tell you why:  you got'em by the balls, squeeze.  because schumann's the shark.  he is ...jaws.  you have to tease'em... you do not puttem in the first reel of the movie...  bring'em back slow, the president...  no, no, put him on.  put him on.  president wants to reveal scbumann before the election.
big mistake.
hell, yes, we're, we are on our way to get him now.  no. lookit:  it is like a girl with her virginity, y'understand...
guy says he will respect her tomorrow, he might, but why take a chance?  hold out til after you are married. that's... that's.... looky, we are offering'em schumann, make em vote for hhhh.... psychologically, they will understand that that is the bargain.  make them pay for him.  make... that is right, the price is their vote. now, we bring him home, the president announces he is flying home, he is here, he is there... f'there the election, ta da, here he is.  have him say it like i wrote it, it will be fine. thanks.  labor, five bucks an hour.  if you watch, ten bucks an hour.  if you help ... if you help, a hundred bucks an hour.
hey, lcokit:  any business...
am not that the truth.
whattaya gonna do when this is all over?
what am i going to do?  I am going to "fade away."  what are you going to do?
well, I will be damned if i know ... you know... doing this thing ...  you know what the worst word is, in the english language?  it is retirement."  what the hell was i thinking of?  hell, i used to...
we pick up schumann.  sneak him back inside the beltway. and we plan his homecoming.  zt's gone be neil armstrong, dr. livingston, and lindy...they're going to forget, they are going to forget, they are going to forget that there is an election...the pres's going to have to say, one of his speeches, "don't forget to vote..."
i got it in the inaugural.  "thank you for voting for me, but, as importantly:  thank you for voting...
getting off on the inaugural?  gonna go...
might, if i was asked...
but, you know, this is the meeting, ron?  you think about it.  this is the meeting.  this, here.  schumann and us.  king kong and the trainers...this's it... what are you working on?
on brean, who is doodling.
medal.  medal and ribbon.
of what?
the albanian campaign.
...the albanian campaign.  this... this is history...
...the albanian campaign...
...like the sound of it, eh...
we have got to put that, into the inaugural.  "i have here, a ribbon.  you have not seen it before, and you will not see it too often now.  for it is the proud possession of a few, a very few men and women... it is the ribbon of the albanian campaign...."
wilfred, that is not bad.
that is not bad at all.
well, you know, "the whole thing's theatre..."
napoleon said, fellow will not sell you his life, but he will trade it to you for a little piece of ribbon.
...the albanian campaign.  and we will not even be a footnote...
we were the albanian campaign, john -- we were there.
well, c'n we get him back home?
could if we had to.  rather not.  rough weather.
they should be.  most valuable animal since sea biscuit.  isn't he...
bigger than that.  for want of a nail a kingdom was lost...
you have got something, there...
...a masterpiece...
...givem what they want...but...
we are due at andrews.
well, i would not go up in it, lest i had to...
captain...  you wanna take'er up...?
heavy weather east of here.
whaddaya think?
six to five and pick'em...you wanna chance it...
...child at the airport...  breaks through the ranks, runs to "old shoe" -- should we have flower or a bear...?
uh...didn't we do this?
never quit a winner.
i thought they were not meeting him at the airport...
they insist they wanna go with meeting him at the airport.  i told'em they are wrong, i can not convince'em. they are concerned that the last kid had the wheat. variations include, the kid is a boy, the kid is twins, it is a little dog ... they rub meat on schumann's cuff, the dog runs to him...
uh...
i think we asked for "special programs" and they gave us "special prisons."
yeah, well -- it is only one word difference.
he, uh, has he been in the "jail" long?
...twelve years.
much more...uh, he have much more time to "serve?"
yeeaahhh...  ohmigod ... ohmigod... ohmigod...
...and...
and?  no.  i do not wanna know.  what do you mean "and..."?
look, look, look....  he is fine, as long as he has his medication.
what happens if he does not have his medication?
he is not fine.
the plane, in a violent rainstorm, bucking wildly.  ames, on his knees, gathering up the pills, replaces them in the vial, shakes out two, and gives them to schumann.  who takes them.  moss then straps himself back in and brean continues talking on the telephone.
you gonna git me back tomorrow?  cause they havin beans tomorrow...
a slight, a slight, well, no, we are going to deal with it, we just, i need a little readjustment...we need to rethink...
yes, william, uh, we have this thing we are doing...
long's you git me back for the beans...
...for the beans, yes...
wilfred.
...what have you done to me...
all combat takes place at night, in the rain, and at the junction of four map segments...
...what are we going to do...?
he is fine, as long as he gets his medication.
speaking of that...  we are going to need a whole lot more of this....
well, get on the phone, and get it...
you know, i think you people are looking at this all wrong.  if you look at the backstory -- the guy's coming back from combat and torture.  of course he is going to be ... uh ... uh ... "fucked up".  of course he is going to "need a little help"...
oh, lord....
just....do what i ...look:  get me a ...hello...? hel...?  I am going to need an ambulance, we take him, the last moment, right from the pl...no, we land, we puttem in the ambulance.  air force jet lands, we take somebody else off that jet...what the fuck do i care? somebody in a hospital gown.  and we need a ......hello?  hello...?
cause i do not think this dog is going to hunt....
he is going to be fine, are not you boy...?
yeah, well, perhaps...  speaking of which:  i have a prescription here, I am going to give you the number, i need you standing by with a crate of the stuff.... it is ... what is it?
an anti-psychotic...
it is an anti-psychotic, the num...  the number...hello...hello...
this is nothing,  wait'll you have worked with a movie star, one time, this is nothing, we keep him shot-up and happy -- the old days, i used to think i was a pharmacist, the kind of stuff i had to do.  one time...
cause the beans, y'know, y'can tell if they are puttin stuff in it.
mmm.
what kind of stuff?  hello...?
give'em another pill...
no.  no.  he did not mean anything by it at all...
hello?   no, operator...
what the fuck did you mean, "what kind of stuff?"?
...this is nothing.  this is nothing. d'you ever shoot in italy?  try three italian starlets on benzedrine, this is a walk in the park...
...who are you?  who are you sonofabitches...
...what happened...?
i think we were experiencing a little technical difficulty.
how is our friend?
what the hell do we care?
eh?  I am like the rest of america.  i do not care -- I am just addicted to it...
the crowds at andrew's airkorce base, the "old shoe" banners, the "courage, mom," banners.  the still band.  a shot of the bandmaster, surreptitiously, glancing at his watch.
how is our friend?  what is he, "dead?"
wake up.
is he dead?
courage, mom.
oh.  hell.  and what do we do now?  what do we do now? boy producer?  mister win-an-emmy, social conscience, whaleshit, save- the-rainforest, liberal hire-a-convict shithead? mister affirmative-action peacnik.  commie... shithead....?
this is nothing. ...piece of cake.  y'know, producing is being a samurai warrior.  they pay you, day in, day out, for years, so that, one day, when called upon, you can respond, your training at its peak, and save the day.
brean, shaking his head.  in the b.g., moss, drinking. the tv comes to life.
no, i did not think so.
leav't alone.  wha'd television ever do to you?  ate your life, ruin'd your culture, but...
it destroyed the electoral process.
come on.
...where?
come on.
y'know what else bothers me?  "shh lil baby, don' saya word, papa's gon buy you a mocking bird..."  the baby don'say a word, what the fuck is the motherfucking mocking bird gone say?  you follow me...?
get on your feet, boy.
uh huh...why?
we are going home.  we are going home together...
we have no home.  we are vagrants.  n'each man's hand's against us.  we killed old shoe...  we killed the schuster...spend our life in a packingcrate...where are you going...?
come on, pal, come on willie, come on, old shoe...
just want to take a nap.
he is not dead, ronnie.  he is just a little understandab1y, fatigued.  let's get him to some help...
...gimme some help...
that is right, we will take a nap.  we will get you to washington, we will get you back to your buddies, and...
...just want to get back to the beans...
come on, you fucking sissy, you think this is tough? try show-business.  1970-1990, n'ybody i worked with, y'could of bottled their piss n'sold it in the ghettos...  come on, pal...
I am tired.
finish strong!  are you nuts?  are you nuts?  this is pennies from heaven... on his triumphal return home, old shoe, his plane forced down...and yet...
he is supposed to be flying in from europe.
we will deal with that when we come to it.  this is producing.  this is what they pay off on...come on, pal, boots and saddles...
...his triumphal plane.  shot down.
shot down, forced down...  you guys are missing it... you are missing the opportunity
you can not tell this story.
why not?
some'b'y'll have you killed.
ha ha.  no, no, not now, not now, of course, but someday... when they tell this story...
you can not tell this story.  he is not kidding you.  you can not tell this story.  you knew that.  the pay off was, you get to be ambassador, or...
no, no, no...
you would be, two, if you would gone through what he went through.
he raped a nun...
what he went through in albania...
he is doped to the gills ...
...where's my l'il pill?
show some compassion.
... and he spent the last twelve years in a milit&ry prison...
how do we explain that?
...how do we explain that?  hey?  am i worried...?
...how do we explain that?  with the world watching.
fuck the world.  try a ten a.m. pitch meeting, no sleep, coked-to-the-gills, and you have not even read the material.
but how do we explain the fact he was in prison?
how do we explain that?  ah, well, you see, wilfred, this is where you have never been at a pitch.  you see? his records say he was in prison ... as they must, as all the records of group 303 have the men and the women, carried on their roster, as belonging somewhere else, the secrecy required of....
on brean and moss, who walk schumann across the highway. in the b.g. we see ames talking to the driver of the harvester, who is a small, hispanic man.
..."down safely," crew perished in the crash....
no, I am on top of it...
"...unsure whether or not enemy action..."
no, I am fine... i got it together....
...but...
you got a dime....?
on moss, as he walks the groggy schumann toward the gas station.
...how ya feeling, boy?
...mmm.
...'bout ready to mix it up...?
is today laundry day...?
yup.
how 'bout a cold drink...?
"...where's my pill..."
the group watching television.
I am concerned about the driver of the rig.
what rig?
...the harvester...
what about him?
well, he does not have his green card.  he does not have his greencard.
on schumann, who has cone to the back of the counter, and is emptying the cannisters.
where is my pill...?
... you want schumann saved by an illegal alien...?
well, what do you want to do about it?  what do you...
pals:  get on the phone... r'they flying it?
they will be here in ten minutes.
get on the phone, have'em fly in a ...whaddaya need to be a citizen?  a judge?  whaddaya need?  a judge...? call in a judge, call in a federal judge, and...  if you are concerned about him, being an ..."immigrant." make him a citizen... eh?  guys ... what is all this mopery, we...
...where is my pill?
on the men, in the room, arguing about the illegal alien, schumann in the b.g.
where is my fucking piiiilllllll...?
oh, hell...
susie?  susie.  are you alright...?  susie...
lemme talk to him.  will?  shoe?
susie...?  are you alright...?
lemme talk to him.  shoe?  shoe...?  you in there...?
on the gas station owner, who has retreated to his counter and produces a shotgun, and starts to load it.
shoe, boy...?  you know, you were telling me you wanted beans?  remember, you were concerned about the beans...?
naa, fuck this, this is nothing.  oh, lord -- this just got big.  i see it -- big -- big for you and big for me.
what are you talking about?
you are not thinking right, pal...
he is dead.  he is dead.  the fella killed old shoe.
and what is bigger than a triumphal homecoming...?
hell of a show.  hell of a job, stan.
...one more day.
naw, naw, we own the airways...
what would be true, then.
well, you  said it yourself, earlier, and if i may rephrase, that the success of the president, in the polls...
...as of today, 89% favorable.
eighty-nine percent favorable, is based not on events...
...by you?
by the  media, by, yes, by, in this case, our organization.
well, there is a lot to be said for that.  and I am going to show a clip.  you have seen it before, you have seen it many times...  but I am going to ask you to look at it once more.  with the election one day off, and the president's standing in the polls...
you see?  what is the lesson here?  never give up. never give up.
no.  you are right.
show must go on.
a proud tradition.
prouder of this, than anything i ever did in my life. i want to thank you, ron.  want to thank you.
what are you doing?
I am looking for a phone...
no, i do not think you can do that.
watch me.
no, i do not think you can do that, stanley...
watch me.
stanley.  stanley... you knew the... stanley.  you knew the deal when you signed on.
deal's changed.
no, the deal isn't changed.  the deal isn't changed. you can not ... what is it?  money?  money?  you want money?
money?  you think i did this for money...?  i did this for credit.  credit, paalll...
but you always knew you could not take the credit....
that is one thing, but I am not going to let two dickheads from filmschool take it... are you nuts?  are you nuts?
stanley, you can not do this....
could we have you in here, please...7
