how you doing buddy?
great carolyn, doing any better would be a sin...
...hey chuckie, how is the woman- slayer?
...still looking for the right 18 year old wife, how you doing, pal?
...if i had your looks, better.
...takes years of genetics, pal, and a yale education... and the right tailor.
...not that you learned anything, chunk.
i got to feeling we are going to make a killing today, marv.
yeah, where is your machine gun.
joke about it. i was up all night charting these stocks. you want to see this or what?
looks bearish to me, buddy. you got it all upside down.  okay, I am giving this to you and you alone, 'cause i feel sorry for you. take the knicks against the bullets, and my pick of the day -- duke to beat the spread against wake forest.
thanks, marv, with that i might be able to qualify for welfare.
you got a look in your eye, mr. mannheim... you got something for the small fry...
jesus, can not make a buck in this market, country's going to hell faster than when that sonofabitch roosevelt was around... too much cheap money sloshing around the world. the biggest mistake we ever made was letting nixon get off the gold standard. putney drug--you boys might want to have a look at it.
... that is what you told us to say.
give me that phone.  yes, sir, this is the manager. what seems to be the problem?
he is lying.
okay, sir. I will discuss this with the broker and I will get back to you. you are welcome.
if I am closing out this account. if he does not pay for it tomorrow, you pay for it.
mr. lynch, i swear to you, he is lying!
fox, you are making more problems than you are sales.
i do not think you are being fair, sir. you assigned me this guy, and you know he is got a history...
somebody has to pay for that error. and it is not me.
buddy, buddy, buddy; little trouble, huh, today.
howard the jerk reneged on me. I have got to cover his loss to the tune of about seven grand! I am tapped out man, american express got a hit man looking for me.
hey, things could be worse. it could have been my money. let me help you out, rookie.
thanks marv, I will make it good to you.  you know what my dream is? one day to be on the other end of that phone...
just put me on the institutional side of the room where the real cheesecake is. you forgetting something?
buddy, buddy, when ya going to realize it is big game hunters that bag the elephants, not retail brokers. i heard this story about gekko... he was on the phone 30 seconds after the challenger blew up selling nasa stocks short.
hello, natalie -- guess who? that is right, and you know everyday i say to myself, today could be the day... so what do you say... will you marry me? then please can you get me through to mr. gekko?
it concerns his future!
of course he is busy, and so am i. five minutes. that is all I am asking. i know that if he could only hear what i have to say... it would change his life.
buddy boy, how ya doing?
great charlie, any better it would be a sin.
...leave me alone willya. only thing makes me feel good anymore. spaghetti. she makes lousy spaghetti...
it is called pasta now dad, spaghetti's out of date.
... looks like you grown another inch... but you do not look so hot, getting bags under your eyes, starting to look old like me.
ah, i had a tough day. some jerk d.k'd me and i got to cover his loss.
speak english will ya.
d.k. -- did not know -- who i was when the options he bought took a bath. he reneged on me.
i told you not to go into that racket. you could have been a doctor or a lawyer,
coulda been a contender.
you coulda stayed at bluestar and been a supervisor in instead of going customer relations by now, 'stead of going off and bein' a salesman.
look dad, I am not a salesman. how many times i got to tell you I am an account executive, and pretty soon I am going to the investment banking side of the firm.
you get on the phone and ask strangers for their money, right? you are a salesman.
dad, it takes time. you got to build a customer list. I am doing it. i could make more money in one year as a broker than five years at the airline.
i do not get it, you get a scholarship to nyu, you get 35,000 the first year, and 50 last year, where the hell is it?
50 k do not get you to first base in the big apple, dad, not any more. i pay 40% in taxes, i got a rent of 15,000, i got school loans, car loans, food, park my car costs me 3 bills a month, i need good suits, that is $500 a pop, shoes...
so come home and live rent free, 'stead of that cockroach palace you live in. $50,000 jesus christ, the world is off its rocker. i made $37,000 last year and you...
it is queens, dad and a 5% mortgage and you rent the top room--i got to live in manhattan to be a player, dad. there is no nobility in poverty anymore, y'know. one day you are going to be proud of me, you will see...
it is yourself you have got to be proud of, huckleberry, how much ya need?
can you spare three hundred? pay you back next month, promise.
...got a 100 on me, you...
not in here dad... please. later.
... it adds up buddy, 300 here, 200 there. your brother never...  ...well, i always said money is something you need in case you do not die tomorrow...
how is mom?
...same, pain in the ass, god bless her, talks too much... going to take her to florida next month... west coast, near tampa, like to get out for good, but can not afford it.
...work okay?
...this drug testing is driving my guys nuts. i got flagged for my blood pressure pills. the only good news is, we just met with the comptroller over some union stuff...'member that crash last summer? and the investigation? well, the faa is going to rule it was a manufacturing flaw in the door latch mechanism. i kept telling 'em it was not maintenance, it was those goddamn greedy manufacturers out in cincinnati. and i was right.
that is great dad.
damn right, it gets us out from under suspension. we will get those new routes to pittsburgh and boston and the equipment we need. we are going to compete with the big boys now.
hey to bluestar, as your broker all i can advise is hold on to that stock dad...
you sure about this faa announcement?
about what?
the faa announcement.
sure I am sure. buddy, you got that mischievous look in your eyes. you used to smile just like that when you were a baby sleeping, just like that.
hello, natalie, you recognize the voice? I will give you a hint, you are thinking seriously about marrying me...
what are you doing here?
...and you are even lovelier than i pictured. i brought a birthday present for mr. gekko.
first of all, mr. fox, you can not just come barging in here. and what makes you think it is his birthday?
it is in the bible, see. you better go buy him a present. please, natalie. let me give him the gift; cuban cigars--davidoff, his favorite and hard to get.
stay here, I will see what i can do.
yeah, billy, who is your buyer?... no, not interested.  ollie, start calling a the institutions, start with marx at janson mutual, then reardon. get me that california retirement money, baby! and we are on our way!
you got it, g.g.
look harold, they are vulnerable, alright, but we do not want 'em to think they are under accumulation. go slow. call geneva and the bahamas for me, will ya? we feint towards it but we wait...
what about tipping off yurovich?
if i ever need surgery, get me the heart of an arb like yurovich, it is never been used...happy holideals harold...
how do you do mr. gekko. I am bud fox.
so you say. nice to meet you; hope you are intelligent. like these, how did you get these?
so what s on your mind kimosabe? why am i listening to you? got to monitor my blood pressure, so whatever you do, do not upset me.
oh no, no...
within 45 seconds, a microprocessor computes your systolic and diastolic pressure. has an lcd readout, and it is cost effective -- less than one visit to the doctor.
i just want to let you know mr. gekko i read all about you at nyu business, and i think you are an incredible genius and I have always dreamed of only one thing -- to do business with a man like you...
so what firm you with, pal?
jackson, steinem...
...going places, good junk bond department, you got the financing on that syndicam deal.
...yeah, and we are working on some other interesting stuff.
...a cosmetics company by any chance? what are you, the 12th man on the deal team? the last to know?
can not tell you that, mr. gekko.
so whatta you got for me, sport? why are you here?
chart break-out on this one here...uh whitewood-young industries...low p.e. explosive earnings. 30% discount from book. great cash flow. coupla 5% holders. strong management.
it is a dog, what else you got, sport, besides connections at the airport?
he respond to the offer? what? what the hell's cromwell doing giving lecture tours when his company's losing 60 million a quarter? i guess he is giving lectures on how to lose money...if this guy opened a funeral parlor, no one would die, this turkey's totally brain dead...well christmas is over and business is business.  keep buying. dilute the sonofabitch. ollie i want every orifice in his body flowing red.
he is flowing, gordo. piece of cake.
...rings a bell somewhere. so what?
a comer. 80 medium-body jets. 300 pilots, flies northeast, canada, some florida and caribbean routes... great slots in major cities...
...don't like airlines, lousy unions...
there was a crash last year. they just got a favorable ruling on a lawsuit. even the plaintiffs do not know.
how do you know?
i know...the decision'll clear the way for new planes and route contracts. there is only a small float out there, so you should grab it. good for a five point pop.
... just got 250,000 shares at 18 1/4 from janson, think I will pull twice that at 18 1/2 outta the california pensions. we got close to half a million shares in the bag.
hey, the terminator! blow 'em away ollie.
and, I am pretty sure we got the beezer brothers out of tulsa coming in with us and I am working on the silverberg boys in canada.
rip their throats out and put them in your garbage compactor.  interesting. you got a card?
my home number's on the back...
bud fox, i look at a hundred ideas a day. i choose one.
...thanks natalie.
...have a nice day mr. stone.  ... mr. gekko, the conference call is ready. mr. sugarman and mr. lorenzo in delaware. mr. bernard in los angeles. mr. jackson and ms. rosco in london. they are all on.
...well, see him?
yeah, but he did not see me.
cheer up buddy buddy. you shook gekko the great's hand and you still got all your fingers. he is not the only elephant in the jungle.
...got tickets for the knicks tonight. go out and cruise some bimbos afterwards, whaddaya say?
...gotta read my reports.
forget charts! we are not fund managers, bud, churn 'em and burn 'em. I am offering you the knicks and chicks. god save you before you turn into poor steeples over there.
nice guy but a loser. lost all his equity when his firm went belly up in the recession of 71. you wanna be coming in here in your late sixties still pitching? ... whatever happened to that cute analyst at thudder, wicks? ... cindy? susan?
cindy. having sex with her is like reading the wall street journal 'cept the journal do not talk back. 'sides this aids crap is ruining romance, nobody trusts anybody anymore, got to get a blood test in the toilet before you leave a bar together, somebody oughtta invent an aids dipstick, no kidding, make a fortune. i got to get to work... z's today.
got a little action there, eh buddy?
marv,  ...i just bagged the elephant!
hi...can i buy you a drink? I am celebrating tonight.
please, no thanks...
look, i know you get approached a lot by dubious men, but I am different, i never talk to strangers, all my life I have been waiting for the right person to walk across the room... you are that person, you do not know it but i do and if you walk away now I will never see you again or you me. you will grow old.
oh really.
I will grow old. we will both die. and we will never have known each other. that is sad. at least one drink for a dreamer...what's your favorite drink?
grand marnier.
sounds like a french word, what is it?
it is a romantic and tragic drink.
sounds tempting. i prefer mine with a twist of fate. you know like us meeting. do not go away...
sleep with me and the secrets of the west are yours.
now that is a crap company, sure you will make money on the takeover rumor, but what is being created. nothing. no substance behind it.
old values. buy.
buddy, buddy, some buddy; why did not you tell me to buy bluestar.
hey marv, he demanded confidentiality...
gimme a break. you buy bluestar airlines yesterday. today they just happen to get good news and the stock goes bat shit. you must have esp. a real nostradamus.  jesus christ, what are friends for?
all right, i owe you one marv.
that is right, next time a little birdie talks to you, talk to me too e.f. hutton.
nice piece of work, fox. why do not you join me and the partners for lunch tomorrow in the dining room?
I would love to, mr. lynch, thank you.
hi sport.
nice to see you again mr. gekko.
see this? can you believe it? two inch screen...
...i can not even see it...
...for my kid rudy -- 3 years old, electronics freak, got a liquid crystal display 'stead of an electronic beam. we are going into a new age pal. so how is business today.
bluestar was at 21 and an eighth when i left the office. it might spin up to 25 by the bell...
teldar's shooting up. buy any for yourself? bet you were on the phone two minutes after you got out of my office.
no sir, that would have been illegal...
sure...relax sport, no one's going to blow a whistle. here, is this legal?...you wanna put it in my account?
mr. gekko -- thank you for the chance. you will not regret this, you are with a winner.
...put the rest of it in a money market account for now. i want to see what you know before i invest it...and save the cheap salesman talk, it is obvious.
excuse me sir.
hello bud, I am lisa, a friend of gordon's.
lisa. gordon? oh, mr. gekko. sure. would you, uh, like to come in?
did not he tell you?  that is so like gordon. get dressed, we are going out.
we are?
so, where are we going?
wherever you like, lutece, 21, the river cafe...or maybe we can just drive around for a while.  work up an appetite.
want some?  gordon tells me you are a very talented broker. what do you like?
like? uh...hmmm. well...
i got this guy who should know tells me buy hewlitt packard but i been burned on tips. what do you think bud?
let's see, it closed at uh, 41 1/8...  up a quarter...very attractive... about average yield...
rising profits...strong balance sheets, good earnings per share.
so you are hot on this stock?
it is ready to take off. I would jump all over it if i were you.
morning buddy, you look happy.
any better and I would be guilty.
you were never that innocent sugarpie.
...how do you know? you wish...
...come on sport, you gotta try harder, i need some exercise for chrissake...
mr. gekko, i do not think i can...go on.
...finish out the game, bud, push yourself...
nice club, mr. gekko...
yeah... not bad for a city college boy. bought my way into this club and now every one of these ivy league schmucks is sucking my kneecaps...i just got on the board of the zoological society, cost me a million; that is the thing with wasps -- they like animals but they can not stand people!
uh, mr. gekko, we took a little loss today. we got stopped out on tarafly...  ...about 50 thousand.
i guess your father's not a union representative on that company.
what? how do you know about my father?
the most valuable commodity i know of is information. would not you agree on that?
yes...
know the name?
'course. larry wildman. one of the first raiders.
sir larry wildman. like all brits he thinks he was born with a better pot to piss in... bribed an old secretary of mine to open bar mouth and stole rdl pharmaceuticals right out from under me. wildman the white knight.
i remember that deal. you were involved?
revenge is a dish best served cold... well, it is payback time, sport.  ... see that building? i bought into it ten years ago. it was my first real estate deal. i sold it a couple of years later and made an $800,000 dollar profit. it was better than sex. at that time i thought that was all tne money in the world...  now, it is a day's pay ... i had a mole in wildman's employ. gave me half the picture, then he got fired...
i do not understand.
wildman's in town. he just became an american citizen. something big's about to go down. i want to know where he goes and who he sees. i want you, sport, to give me the missing half of the picture...
follow him? mr. gekko i...  it is not what i do. i could lose my license. if the sec found out, i could go to jail. it is inside information, is not it?
inside information. oh you mean like when a father tells his son about a court ruling on an airline? or someone overhears me saying I am going to buy teldar paper? or the chairman of the board of xyz suddenly knows it is time to blow out xyz. you mean that?  I am afraid sport, unless you got a father on the board of directors of another company, you and i are going to have a hard time doing any business...
what about hard work?
what about it? you work hard. I will bet you stayed up all night analyzing that dog you bought. and where did it get you?... my father worked hard too like an elephant pushing electrical supplies. and he dropped dead at 49 with a heart attack and a tax bill and the bank pissed on his grave and took the house; my mom ended up working in a dish factory... wake up pal, if you are not inside you are outside. and I am not talking a $200,000 a year working wall street stiff flying first class and being "comfortable", I am talking rich pal, rich enough to fly in your own jet, rich enough not to waste time, 50-100 million, a player bud -- or nothing. you had what it takes to let through my door. next question: you got what it takes to stay...??
what brings you out here...
client. got a private jet over at butler aviation... dad, you always got to light up when you see me, it is the...
do not start, alright.
alright. why so pissed?
goddamn fare wars are murdering us. had to lay off five guys. nothing i could do. what is it... money?
sure...lots of guys at the track talk like that... but how do you know you will have any dough next month...  what is this? i gave you two hundred.
dividend. i figure i owe you about five thousand in nickels and dimes...
...don't be crazy. put it to your school loans.
do not worry about the loans. I am doing good dad and it is going to stay that way now... least buy yourself a new suit.
what do i need a fancy suit for. i do not hobnob with the jet set. i just fix their planes.
problem with money is you never have enough or you got too much -- and when you got it you are never happy 'cause somebody is always trying to take it away from you. money's one giant pain in the ass y'ask me... thanks.
... dad, you should have been a ceo. how about dinner?
whatever night you like.
wait... next week's booked. let me check with my girl and get back to you on monday.
yeah, you do that huckleberry. I will still be here.
...gotta run dad. you stop smoking, you hear?
what the hell...
anacott steel. buy it.
mr. mannheim, got a sure thing.  anacott steel.
no such thing bud - 'cept death and taxes. not a good company anymore, no fundamentals. what is going on bud? do you know something?  remember there are no short cuts son, quick buck artists come and go with every bull market but the steady players make it through the bear markets.  you are part of something here, bud. the money you make for people creates science and research jobs. do not sell that out.
you are right, mr. mannheim, but you got to get to the big time first, then you can be a pillar and do good things.
can not get a little bit pregnant, bud.
it is a winner mr. mannheim, trust me -- buy.
wanna play some tennis saturday?
you mean teach you how to play. can't. going fly fishing in canada, big client...
...you take that anacott steel?
...light snack, but good, thanks pal, you are sharking your way up...
i got all i could get which was 750,000 shares plus 5000 march 50 calls. average price of $47 a share and $4 per contract for the call. i just wish i could have got more.
do not expect to get it all, sport, you will burn out. first rule of business is never get emotional about stock, clouds the judgment. where do we stand?
I will be right there, fix them a drink.
...we have 37.2 million invested. at this point, we are up 3.1 million and some change. if it goes to 75 bucks we can clean close to 12 mill.
you are walking between the raindrops kid. i expect sir larry is choking on his royal chamber pot by now.
my firm needs your signature on these option agreements tonight, sir, otherwise we could take a real bath tomorrow.
...can't it wait? I am good for it.  ...awright. come out, get the directions from natalie and hurry up.
sorry, mr. gekko.
allright. wait here...
hello again, i been holding these drinks for us for the last three weeks.
excuse me.
grand marnier. a romantic and tragic drink.
oh yes, i remember you.
destiny took us apart, but i knew it would bring us back together.
aha. poet or philosopher?
stock broker. as in: never have so few done so little for so much. so what do you see in this?
I would give anything to have this in my house, even for a week.
...few thousand dollars down the drain if you ask me.
oh really?  well, i guess you can kiss that career as an art appraiser goodbye, because we paid over four hundred thousand for it at the contemporary picture sale last june.
you could have a great beach house for that.
sure you could, in wildwood, new jersey. if you sold this,  you could have a pretty nice penthouse on fifth. but you would not have much left over for decoration.
boy, i thought gordon was a tough businessman, but somebody is really taking him to the cleaners here.
not really. I would say that gordon is one of the most astute collectors around. he has a great eye and he only buys the best. like this rug for instance, a silk tabriz, the finest of its kind. the day after he bought it in london, a dealer representing the saudi royal family offered him twice what he paid. it absolutely makes the room. see how this little bit of celadon in the border is picked up in the cushions oh the sofa... although...  i do not know if i would have used that tea dipped linen for the upholstery - too dingy. and it is a sacrilege having that pre-columbian pot in the center of the coffee table. some dope might use it as an ashtray.
i gather you are a decorator.
you got it, a great spender of other people's money.
well, if you are that good, you could probably do wonders at my place.
where is it?
upper west side.
oh really. home of the exposed brick wall and the  houseplant.
oh it is just a rental. I am moving to the east side soon. I have got a couple of deals brewing with gordon.  but that is just conversation... what about real things? like dinner. the two of us. friday. cafe. santo domingo.
what if i have a previous engagement?
break it.
i guess this must be destiny alright. my first yuppie apartment and...  my first yuppie.
you may call me a yuppie... it is mister yuppie to you.
so. see you friday.
you really do believe in destiny?
only if i want something bad enough.
i guess I will head back...
stick around... larry, one of my "gang" -- bud fox.
rarest pistol in the world, larry, a .45 luger. only six were ever manufactured.
congratulations but rarer still is your interest in anacott steel.
the same interest as yours larry. money. i thought it would be a good investment for my kid...
no. this time I am in for the long term. this is not a liquidation, gordon. I am going to turn it around. you are getting a free ride on my tail, mate, and with the dollars you are costing me to buy back the stock, i could modernize the plant. I am not the only one who pays here gordon. we are talking about lives and jobs; three and four generations of steel workers...
you must be wearing a mask you are laughing so hard behind it larry. let's cut the "sir" crap. correct me if I am wrong, but when you took cnx electronics, you laid off 8,000 workers, jessmon fruit about 6,000, that airline...
i could break you, mate, in two pieces over my knees, you know it, i know it, i could buy you six times ever, i could dump the stock just to burn your ass but i happen to want the company and i want your block of shares. I am announcing a tender offer at 65 tomorrow, and I am expecting your commitment.
the break up value is higher. it is worth 80.
but we do not want to be greedy now, so let's let him have it at $72.
considering you brought my mother into it, $71.50.
done. you will hear from my lawyers. 8 a.m. good night.
he is right. i had to sell. the key to the game is your capital reserves. you do not have enough, you can not pee in the tall weeds with the big dogs.
"all warfare is based on deception..." sun tzu says, if your enemy is superior, evade him, if angry, irritate him, if equally matched, fight... if not, split and reevaluate.
you are learning, sport...
money never sleeps pal. when i came in in '69, they traded six hours a day, now the clock do not stop, london's deregulated, the orient is hungrier than us. just let the money circle the world, sport, buying and selling, and if you are smart it comes back paying. i just made $800,000 in hong kong gold. it is been wired to you -- play with it. you done good, but you got to keep doing good. i showed you how the game works, now school's out.
mr. gekko, I am there for you 110%.
you do not understand. i want to be surprised...astonish me, sport, new info, do not care where or how you get it, just get it... my wife tells me you put a move on darien. here's some inside info for you. that euroflash gq guy she is going with's got big bucks but he is putting her feet to sleep. exit visas are imminent. so do not lose your place in line.  oh, jeez, i wish you could see this. the lights coming up over the water. I have never seen a painting that captures the beauty of the ocean at this moment.  ...an old russian proverb - "a fisherman always sees another fisherman from afar." i like you sport, i ever tell you that... gordon, call me gordon from now on.
...gordon.
yeah, I am going to make you rich, bud fox. I am going to make you rich enough you can afford a girl like darien. remember, power is the best aphrodisiac. this is your wake-up call. go to work.
fox, bud d. is this deja vu or has it really been a year. you are not hitting me up for nyu are you?
well we are thinking of putting up a statue of you in the subway. i hear you are moving up in the world. an associate already. not bad. how is margie?
can not complain. got a house in oyster bay. market treating you good? still seeing that sexy french gal?
nah, she asked the wrong question.
what was that?
"what are you thinking?"...that was it. the hours are hell, but the money's starting to tumble in. i know this guy who is got an iron- clad way to make money, i can not lose and i can not get hurt.
so, does "this guy" have a tip for an honest lawyer?
yeah, check out teldar paper, it is still not over.
okay.
what about you, i hear you guys are handling the fairchild foods merger and it may not be going through. any surprises i have not read about in the wall street journal?
come on buddy, you would not want to got me disbarred now would you?
who is listening? it is just one college buddy talking to another.
yeah, right...
relax, roger, everybody's doing it but you do not know, you do not know.
...and if i did, what is in it for moi?
more money than you ever dreamed, roger. and the thing is no one gets hurt...how bout a beer?
too much to do...but I will walk you out.
got him at an auction in kentucky.
how much?
close to two million.  but this sucker can go all the way to devon and the nationals.
devon? he looks like seattle slew. what about the triple crown?
he is not a racehorse, bud, he is a jumper.
how would i know? i once bet a horse. he went out at ten to one and came in at quarter to five.
the art of which is deception. spread the buy orders through different accounts and you will not get burned...
i think i got some friends that will not mind making some easy money...
if i could have anything... this would almost do.
yeah, almost...
so, how did your conference go with gordon?
the conference, oh yeah. fine. we reached an agreement and decided to divide up the world between us.
you have modest wants. i like that in a man.
and what do you want?
...a turner, a perfect canary diaiaond... a lear jet... world peace... the best of everything...
well, why stop at that?
i don't.
you are not trouble by any chance. are you?
what is going on?
lynch is giving him the boot... he is not pulling his quota.
you are on a roll kiddo. enjoy it while it lasts -- 'cause it never does.
...just kickin' ass and taking names, mr. mannheim.
so whaddaya say pal, wanna play some doubles at piping? meet the membership? i got a little blonde named mandy, about nineteen, avec cafe au lait boobs... she is mine but she is got a cousin who has great muffins.
...sounds dubious chuck, but piping rock any day.
thank you, janet...thank you, mr. lynch.
no, thank you. i knew the minute i laid eyes on you, you had what it takes bud. just keep it going.
...isn't it perfect!
...too perfect...let's not even eat. let's just watch it and think about it.
you know, the elevator man could not believe i paid $300,000 to have my walls looking like this, he is got them for free in brooklyn.
I will bet he is got an opinion on the stock market too. this apartment is already ahead of its time. i call it the "demolished" look. they have already heard about it at house and garden and they are coming next week to photograph it before it gets... lived in. is that alright? I would love to have it in my portfolio.
sure... but your fee... considering you are way over budget, should be negotiable.
let's get things straight, bud. I am not going to take a cut. i worked hard and you can not decorate a room in new york for less than $100,000. curtains alone...
I am kidding, I am kidding, we are still young, darien. so what is money anyway when everybody's making it, it is all relative. after all, this is not the house in connecticut, this is just a crash pad good for a couple of years...before we slip our two lovely kids, yuppie and fruppie into the lycee francaise.
you got it all charted out do not you, like a stock projection.
that is right -- one with high yield, rich assets and no downside...
do you think you are ready?
it is not me I am worried about...you know darien, the only reason we have not slept together is because we both know we will -- and not knowing when was the only surprise left. you owe me, i want you, what else is there...but you, me, the world.  ...right here...make love to me...now...  stop me if I am going too far.
I will let you know.
sure, and I am never going to die either, is this one of your chain letter schemes or do i got to buy a door to door cosmetic franchise in northern arkansas?
no, no dixon, my client wants to buy a large, large block of stock and needs to spread it around. I will park some money in your account and if it hits, you get a big cut. I am telling you, this is the easiest money you ever made...
...and you do not have to put up a dime, roger.
all right, bud... let's do it.
bud, i hate to tell you this but you are a genius!  darien...lightning has struck! the lightbulb has been invented. edison, da vinci, einstein are watching...
...are you going to trade all night again? you got to go to work in a couple of hours.
you think I am going to broker the rest of my life... I am going to be a giant, darien, an entrepreneur in the italian 15th century sense of the word -- a mover, shaker.
i love you, baby. did i tell you that sometime in the last 24 hours?
get in bed. y'ever hear of the sixty hour work week? you are turning into a yuppie frankenstein, you love money so much.
sure, why not, money's the sex of the 80's. i never had it like you when i was growing up, baby, it was not the upper east side.
you are so naive bud, you do not even know. your dad took care of you. i might have been rich when i was a kid...but my father lost all his money...in the seventies, in the stock market, at the track. he was a lousy gambler...
...that changes all my plans, i thought you were loaded...
so did i, till i hit 19 and found i had all the royal habits and no throne. mom got by but i had to go to work just like you. only the skills i had were shopping and making friends. so...that's why i do what i do, what makes you tick, buddy?
fear. the fear of being poor i guess, just like you, darien... but that is all going to change sweetheart. I am catching the express...  ... and you are going along for the ride.
mixed emotions, buddy: like larry wildman going off a cliff in my new maserati. men as smart as myself have got their asses handed to them on a sling with the airlines, fuel could go up, unions are killers...
yeah are not you forgetting something gordon: rule one, capital reserves. this company has $75 million cash in an overfunded pension. that buys us a lot of credibility...  ...and the beauty is you already own close to two percent of this sucker...
gordon, the insurance people are balking on the logging trucks...
tell those spineless toads we will self-insure if they do not write it... you fire 33 vice presidents and nothing changes...  you eating twinkies today, bud, or are you schtupping some stewardess...
gordon what i want--and i never asked you for anything--is to be your co-pilot on this. i want to take this airline, turn it around, and make it work. it is going to make us a fortune!
I am talking to a stockbroker who wants to run an airline. it is going to take me two years and 2000 headaches to turn teldar paper around, what do i need this dink airline for? I am up to my ass in more nuts than a fruitcake.
gordon, i worked at bluestar, i know my way around, i have friends there...inside.
what does that mean?
the three unions. it is 43% of bluestar's operating budget, the hourly cost of a flight crew is $850 an hour, that is the real hidden value g.g., if you can negotiate that out, get a crew down to $350-400 an hour a run, this airline is going to be the hottest thing since texas air...
what makes you think you can?
i can talk to these people gordon, they trust me...and my father can be a big help in getting cuts.
alright... susan, get buckingham on the box. i want him to look at it. and tell jock taylor at thwick, jensen...  so sport, the falcon has heard the falconer...tell me more...
dad, you know duncan wilmore, pilot's union, and toni carpenter, flight attendants...
i met them before you were born.
and I would like to introduce you to mr. gekko, and his lawyer, mr. salt.
a pleasure to meet you, mr. fox.
i thought this was an informal meeting. what is he doing here?
harold, you do not mind strolling around the block a couple hundred times, do you?
with all due respect, mr. gekko, what is to prevent you from doing the same thing?
cause i have a way around all this, a way we can all make money and make this airline profitable again. what do you say we cut to the chase. I am asking for a modest twenty percent across-the-board wage cut.
are you prepared to put that in writing?
I will have a letter of agreement drawn up within two days.
cards are on the table. what do you think?
if you mean what you say, i think we are in the ball park. I will take it to my people.
frankly, carl, i can not see giving much more. if you have any suggestions I will be glad to listen.
there came into egypt a pharoah who did not know.
i beg your pardon. is that a proverb?
no, it is a prophecy. the rich have been doing it to the poor since the beginning of time. the only difference between the pyramids and the empire state building is that the egyptians did not have unions.  i know what this guy is about-- greed--he's in and out for the buck and he do not take prisoners. he do not give a damn about northstar or us ...
now, wait a minute, dad...
sure. what is worth doing is worth doing for money. it is a bad bargain where nobody gains. and if this deal goes through, we all gain.
fine, if you do not want us, stay with the scum in present management--dedicated to running you and bluestar into the ground.
...that "scum" built this company up from one plane in thirty years, they made something out of nothing, and if that is a scum I will take one over a rat any day...
he is got your prick in his back pocket, son, and you are standing naked in the display window of macy's. he is using you. only you are too blind to see it.
no, what i see is a jealous old machinist who can not stand that his son's become more successful than himself.
what you see, son, is a man who never measured success by the size of a man's wallet.
that is because you never had the guts to go out into the world and stake your claim.
boy, if that is what you think, i must have really screwed up my job as a father.
...as far as being axed, I am still here and as long as i am, i have a responsibility not just to me but to the union members i represent...
your responsibility, dad, is to present the facts, not your opinions, to the men... you are going to destroy their lives, dad! do not do it to 'em. give it a chance. let the membership decide for themselves, dad. please.
I will be damned that when my men come to me tomorrow morning, wanting to know what is going on, I am going to lie to them!
your men! all my life "your men" have been able to count on you? why is it that you have never been there for me?
...this guy who said he was from the security exchange commission, whatever the hell that is, calls and wants to ask me about that stock i bought...
what did you tell him?
i told him i was in the bathroom and I would call him right back. what the hell was i supposed to say buddy, you got me into...
look dixon, calm down! it is not illegal to buy stock or to be right. and it is not all that unusual to be spot checked on a big buy. tell him you did your homework and you thought the stock was a sound investment.
what if he asks where i got the money?
tell 'em your father gave it to you.
what if they call him?
they won't. that is not their jurisdiction.
you sure?
yes! read the constitution, it is all in there. and remember--you do not know anything, nothing.
i do not know anything!
good. then call him back. and call me back. do not worry.
hey you hear the news. i just got a job at a new firm: "dewey, cheat 'em and howe." yuk yuk.
did not i tell you to knock before you came in here?
hey the door was open.
then get out and close it behind you.
you know what you need, buddy buddy--an optorectomy. that is when they cut the nerve that runs from your brain to your rectum--to change that shitty attitude of yours.
get the hell out!
so what is the problem?
...got a strange call from the sec. they asked to see my records... bud, this is a heavy...
....relax roget  you are 82m in the account numbers and I am the invisible man... they are always looking for red flags, gekko's always getting checked by them, they never come up with anything... we are invulnerable on this...
alright... i just wanna slow down bud... no more calls for awhile, no lunches... we suspend our business, alright...
sure roger, whatever you want, it is cool.
gekko asked us into the bluestar deal. we are reviewing the timetables, wanna come?
he never told me...
you are just the president of the company, what do you know? ... come on.
i did not know we had a meeting schedule for this morning.
I am sorry, this can not wait.
what the hell do you want?
i found out about the garage sale down at bluestar. why?
last night i read rudy the story of winnie the pooh and the honey pot. know what happened: he stuck his nose in that honey pot once too often and got stung.
maybe you ought to read him pinocchio. you told me you were going to turn bluestar around. not upside down. you used me.
you are walking around blind without a cane, sport. a fool and his money are lucky to get together in the first place.
why do you need to wreck this company?
because it is wreckable. i took another look and i changed my mind.
if these people lose their jobs, nowhere to go. my father worked at bluestar for twenty-four years. i gave 'em my word.
it is all about bucks, kid, the rest is conversation...  bud, you are still going to be president. and when the time comes, you will parachute out a rich man. with the money you are going to make, your father will not have to work another day in his life.
tell me, gordon--when does it all end? how many yachts can you waterski behind? how much is enough?
buddy, it is not a question of enough. it is a zero sum game, sport. somebody wins and somebody loses. money itself is not lost or made, it is simply transferred from one perception to another. like magic. that painting cost $60,000 10 years ago. i could sell it today for $600,000. the illusion has become real. and the more real it becomes, the more desperately they want it. capitalism at its finest.
how much is enough gordon?
the richest one percent of this country owns half the country's wealth: 5 trillion dollars. one third of that comes from hard work, two thirds of it comes from inheritance, interest on interest accumulation to widows and idiot sons and what i do -- stock and real estate speculation. it is bullshit. ninety percent of the american people have little or no net worth. i create nothing; i own. we make the rules, buddy, the news, war, peace, famine, upheaval; the cost of a paper clip.  we pull the rabbit out of the hat while everybody else sits around their whole life wondering how we did it...  ...you're not naive enough to think we are living in a democracy are you, buddy? it is the free market. you are one of us now...take advantage of it. you got the killer instinct, kid, stick with me. i got things to teach you...
obviously...
believe me, buddy, i was going to discuss this with you at the right time. look, why do not you calm down and come to the apartment for dinner tonight. bring darien...
...i can not make it tonight.
are you with me buddy?
I am sorry. i was afraid something like this could happen.
talk about being bent over the sink of life and being dry humped. i handed it to him on a silver platter. i told my father and those people...
buddy, it is not your fault, and it is not your decision.
I am not going to let it happen darien.
do not cross gordon. he will crush you. you have worked hard to get where you are. if gordon does not buy bluestar someone else will; and who is to say they will not do the same thing.
at least i would not be pulling the trigger.
are you mad! why are you doing this! we are so close, the town is going to be ours. do not throw away your future bud!
i can stay with the brokerage firm. and you are doing fine. we can survive without gordon gekko.
I am not looking to just survive. I have been doing that all my life.
what the hell's that supposed to mean?
you really mean that?  what did he promise you? to take you public? i guess without gordon's money and seal of approval, I am not such a hot investment anymore. you are just the best money can buy, darien...
you are not exactly pure bud, you went after gekko with the same vengeance you went after me. look in the mirror before...
I am looking...and i sure do not like what i see.
you may not believe this bud but i really do care for you. i think we could have made a good team...but that is how it goes...
get the hell out!
bud! where you been the last two days?
...janet get my father on the phone and the two other union reps, urgent...
he had a heart attack, hon, but he is okay, he is at the hospital...
oh christ!
your words, not mine...
you speak for me, son.
what do you say we go get a suite at the carlyle? caviar? champagne? celebrate, just like the old times sunshine.
those days are over, gordon. they were over a long time ago.
can not blame me for trying. you look as beautiful as that painting i just bought.
so what is the problem sunshine? you look like black thursday. bad case of puppy love?
it is not puppy love, gordon. anyway, buddy and i are splitting up.
sorry to hear that. i thought the kid had staying power.
it is over you, gordon.
you told him about us?
no, are you crazy? and i do not want him ever to know. do you understand?...
i want to ask you a big favor, gordon. please drop the bluestar deal.
now tell me, why would i want to do that?
because i do not want to see him hurt.
do not worry sunshine. bud and i had a little talk. we came to an understanding.  i want you to go back to him. soothe him. help keep his head straight. okay?
i can't...and i won't.
come on, we both like buddy. but this bleeding heart puppy love act is over the top... it does not fit.
maybe it does. do not patronize me gordon.
you and i are the same, darien. we are smart enough not to buy into the oldest myth running: love... a fiction created by people who got nothing to keep them from jumping out of windows.
you are really twisted, gordon. you are incapable of giving to anybody because deep down inside you there is a poverty that every last dollar in the world will not fill.
ooh ooh, tough talk from a scared little girl all wrapped in a pretty grown-up package. does this mean you are ready to cut the umbilical cord and step out into the world on your own? because, darien, if you are through with me, you are through with everything I am a part of.
i agree. go thou and sin no more.
i want to make it up to you. bluestar, put all your clients in it.
thanks, buddy, buddy, I am back. say, buddy, those optorectomies do work wonders.
the stock's going to pluto!
start unloading.
sell?
now! tell everyone to dump!
who the hell's out there? what are the arbs saying? it is got to be a big hitter.
they do not know what is going on!
we know what you are up to, gekko, and let me tell you this from here,  you suck eggs, mister, over my dead body you am not going to break up bluestar.
you guys must know something nobody else knows. if those are my plans, it is the first I have heard of it.
listen, you clowns, there is somebody else out there trying to buy your airline, if you want to be pac-manned and gobbled by atilla the hun be my guest!
we will take our chances.  nice to see you again, mr. gekko.
fox says bluestar just hit 23. what do you want him to do?
sell it all.  what the hell, so I will only make ten million.
gordon, it is two minutes to close. what do you want to do?! decide.
dump it.
hello bud.
gordon.
you sandbagged me on bluestar.  i guess you think you taught the teacher a lesson, that you can make the tail wag the dog, huh?
another cup of coffee?
no, thanks, I am nervous enough.
i guess it is time to hit the road.
yeah, do not want to be late for my own funeral.
dad, I am going to jail and you know it.
maybe that is the price, bud, maybe so. it is going to be rough on you but maybe in some screwed up way, that is the best thing that can happen to you...stop trading for the quick buck and go produce something with your life, create, do not live off the buying and selling of others...
hi.
why?
i figure a guy who is made some mistakes should be able to understand a girl who is made some of her own...
