darling?  i hear you were having drinks with the butler the other night.  now  you know that sort of thing leads to anarchy.
mom.
one has to keep the distance between `them' and `us'
they're all human beings
servants.  oh isn't it terrible darling, two more people have disappeared
oh really?  we're they `us'es' or `them's'?
don't be facetious darling. now drink your milk, you're late for college
mom, when are you going to let me have some coffee in the morning?
when - you're a big boy.  i mean you know it's bad for you
but mom, i need the caffine - badly
i'll think about it.  now run along darling.
your books master loftmore
thank you jenkins
and your coff - excuse me, caffeine sir
thank you
and uh, your nicotine sir
thank you
allow me sir
will you be wanting your wheels today sir?
uh, not today jenkins, i need the fresh air
have a nice day  sir
i saw the greatest movie with mark last night
with mark?
he still likes you
oh i don't give a shit the guy's a slob.  he doesn't even know how to spell  `lady' let alone treat me like one.  you know the last time we went out he  actually made me pay for a drink?
he did?
yes, i'm sure.  what i need is an older man, something with class, a  little style. someone who knows how to treat a lady.
businessman?
businessman!
doctor? lawyer? china lawyer, doctor, i don't care.
yeah, yeah, ok
yeah
so why are you dating jonathan?
but?
but he still has something mark hasn't.
what's that?
a body.  i mean we're talking major body
i can't believe she went out with that monster last night
forget her mark, she's a bitch
stop saying things so loud!
oh! the virgin has spoken! sarah stop it!
well that's for me to know - but i did enjoy rubbing oil all over that big.
just give it a break china ok? china jeez.  can't even take a joke
save it for the powder room babe, this man is in pain
you guys are being real assholes
you bet.  we all can't be such modern people
come on mark mark ah hell, why not.  i'll get the maid to write the essays
yes!
anybody want another drink?
it's eleven forty-five let's go
we need to talk. china yeah about what?
about what?  about us.
us is over.  you had your chance you blew it.
right. china i need a taking care of,  not `hey how bout a pizza after class babe'.  i'm looking  for something just a little more in a man.  a little `je nes se qua'.
a little what? china see.  you don't even speak french.
i'm sorry i'm not that good at languages ok?
yeah well why should i suffer for that?
suffer?  we're living in america.
looks a little spooky boys, you think we should do this?
never fear, tony is here.  ladies first.
well if you're in such a rush darling, why don't you lead the way?
ok toots, i will.
guys, if i'm going to play the hero at least give me a little room.
safety in numbers man.
right.
anyone else not coming?
right behind you.
velcome to ve vaxverk.
uh, wrong picture tony.
this time i really don't see anyone man.
must be what we came for. the four stand slowly and enter through the doors, which close behind them.  they begin walking around  the waxworks, which appear gruesome. the first they spy is of a high school student with a letter  jacket on the verge of being hacked with an axe by and angry woodsman.  they give each other looks of  disgust and continue on.  the next is of a frankenstein-esque creature carrying a woman in its arms.  the  four are now roaming around the waxworks individually, with tony encountering what appears to be  a tribal indian pointing a knife towards a victim.  mark walks past a circus cart with some sort of werebeast inside, and then continues on to a staircase exhibit with a dead woman at the base of it.  on the  staircase is a zombie-fied creature.  we see china walking on the other side of a bandage wrapped man  pumping gasoline into a woman's mouth.  finally, we see tony walking up to a cottage room display.
this. is killer.
haven't we been doing our homework.
i've always wondered why someone would believe in something like that.
getting scared?  don't worry, they've probably just gone home.
what?  tony and china, together?
wooo.  jealously rearing its ugly head.
i'm not kidding.  i want to get out of here - now, ok.
i hope you enjoyed your visit.
uh yes, thank you.  it was quite enjoyable.
two of your friends left earlier mark uh huh.
they seemed, closing by much
tony and china?
vell.  goodnight.
then why do you still like her?
like her?  i don't know if i ever liked her.  it's just you want what you can't get.
i know what you mean.
hello?
hello, mrs. webster.  is china there?
no jonathan.
no?
she went to a waxwork party
a party at a waxwork huh?
can i give her a message?
you don't happen to have the address do ya?
no mark. mark why not?
i don't know.  i really like you and i think you're very attractive.
come on.
no i'm serious.  it's. it's just i don't know i. i'm looking for something else.
no, no james, it's not like that.  tony and china, they're just friends.
that's not what you said last night.
ok, so maybe i was a little over emotional.
a little?
weird and tiny huh?
hi
yes, it's always been one of my favorites too.
hmm.
would you like a closer look?
it's all rather morbid though isn't it?
yes, i guess you're right
are you sure you wouldn't like a closer look?
you aren't sick! we've got to get back.  what are you doing!
listen sarah, i think i know what's going on ok.  i went to the waxwork today.i met this man.
oh that explains everything.
you don't understand.  i recognized his face now come on.
big deal!
if my mother caught me up here she'd kill me.
who's is all this?
well?
well.   .this, is mr. lincoln.  and that's the man i saw at the waxwork.
sir wilfred, this is sarah brighton.  this is sir wilfred.
hi there sarah
no thank you sir we're fine.
so mark, what's so urgent?
well, it's a long story.sir wilfred oh good share.  i love them
well, it all started when a friend and i
china
well?
well divide 18 into three
six six and six
if you sold your soul to the devil, you'd never age either
sell my soul?
any student of black magic can do it.   .most of these books will tell you how! sarah so what happens when you've sold out?
you get yourself a regular job, as satan's disciple.
doing what? sir wilfred tipping the scales.  ruining that delicate balance between good and evil.  i think  that our mr. lincoln has found a very effective way of doing it.  there's a  voodoo belief that by making a wax effigy of an evil being, containing a  belonging of his he possessed in earthly form, and feeding him the soul of a  believing victim, you can bring him back to life!
can this be stopped?
maybe before the event, never after.
sarah listen to me.
go away.
we're all here, and ready sir!
jenkins!
good evening sir.
oh mark.  it's ok.  it's ok.
china.  what happened? china shhh.  it's ok.  i missed you so much.
jenkins.  can i get you some help?
too late for that sir.  give my love to the misses.  get those bastards!
