which do you think is her best shot...
the one on the left - definitely...
do not give me shit - what do you want?
I have got a tenant coming over later - can i take the afternoon off?
as long as you get the hacksaw piece done by friday... friday?
that is not technically accurate - simpsons murders were not sexually motivated.
you know that circulation is down for three months in a row.
i heard something like that
then it is going to be 'i killed for sex'... listen darling, why will not you let us use your real name for the features - if people knew that it was the ellen carter writing the features and not just some pseudonym - then we might shift more units. you have not written anything in four years darling - i know you need this job - and if circulation keeps dropping, there is not going to be a magazine for you to write for...
I am sorry, i could not - when is she due?
at 2.00...
it does not mention 'females only'
i really do not know what to say
I am really very sorry - i was banking on this coming through, because it is only five minutes from my surgery...
surgery? are you a doctor?
no - a dentist
well, what do you think?
i do not know - it is your house ellen
yes - but you live here too - if it were your house?
i think he is fine - i do not know why you have this thing about men - it would be nice to have a guy in the house for a change - i do not think he would hurt a fly.
just put it in my room
no worries
I am sorry, i did not mean to shout...
do not worry about it -
oh - tell me ellen, i can call you ellen?
sure...
tell me - ellen carter  forgive me for being so pushy, but are not you a novelist? did not you write that terrific book - 'the color of fear'?
you are a novelist - why did not you tell me?
and not just any novelist - a great novelist - it was an impressive piece of work ellen...
i lost the touch
the touch?
her husband left her
oh...
do you take sugar?
yes, two please. I am sorry, i did not mean to pry, it is just that i really loved your book
what are you doing?
I am sorry?
what is with all the locks - and hammering
it says in the contract i can have a lock fitted - is there a problem angela?
my names is not angela...
yes - I am sorry ellen...
do not worry - is that my hammer  well just make sure that it is put back in the garage...
it is been what, three years?
what is this all about?
so have you seen hubby recently ellen?
what brings the rats out of the sewers?
I am here about the so called disappearance of your husband - it is best if we let old bones lie. know what i mean?  I am working on the white angel case now - and I have got to check all known murderers or suspected murderers for the last five years... and that means you...so where were you last thursday afternoon around five...
you think I am the white angel?
it did give me a chance to meet you again ellen - it is all routine you understand...so where were you?
at home alone - where were you?
as it happens, i was at home alone - maybe we could solve each others problems?
get out...
oh my gawd!
I am sorry - i did not think
a person could get killed round here just for working late
i thought you were someone else
well I am glad I am not them - what are you doing here so late? come to that, what the hell have you got that for?
i thought someone was following me - i - er -  i just needed my computer and some things...listen, I would like to work from home for a few weeks - is that ok?
why do not you take a few weeks off - you are due some holiday time.
sounds good - thank you
do not mention it - now can i get back to my accounts, or do you want to fillet me?
if you want any - there is some left in the kitchen
i think i will pass...
what is wrong with you?
i would prefer it if you kept away from leslie
what?
you heard me - keep away from him
you do not own him you know - you can not tell me not to see him!
yes i can...
i want you out now
leave!? who the hell do you think you are?
I am your landlady
sugar?
yes, one and a half please.
so what do you do?
I am a dentist
and how long have you been a dentist?
oh, about six years since i graduated
and how many people have you killed?
i do not know
you do not know?
no - the police say I have killed fourteen - but I have not - I have killed many more. it amazes me how they just have not found the bodies. what is society coming to when people just do not get missed. i agree, some of them are well hidden - i probably could not even show you where i put them - one girl, number eight i think the press called it - she was not even mine - i do not know who did it but i did not
where do you kill them...
oh anywhere - whenever i needed to - do you know how easy it is to take them? you just pick up a hiker, or someone off the streets - they believe so easily you know, 'look, i have something to show you' i would say - and that would be it. one girl, i think her name is debbie - she had broken down on the motorway, and i offered to take her to a service station to call for a tow truck - she just got in and i drove away. when i pulled into the layby and took out my knife - she just froze, and said - what do you want? - i said, you know what i want. - but she didn't. getting rid of the bodies is just as easy - the first i cut up, put in bags with bricks in, and tossed them off eldridge bridge in broad daylight.  the real problem with my work is the blood - there is so much of it - and it all spurts out so fast - like a fountain. it made such a mess of
my car  i stopped working from my car.  she could have stopped me you know - if she really wanted too. that is the difference between the confusion of humanity and the purity of the beast - if a dog attacked you - you could easily kill it without any damage to yourself - why then do people get bitten by dogs - savaged? why?
i do not know
because a dog will attack with a ferocity and force that we poses, but centuries of social contamination has run it out of us - that is what sets us aside from the purity of the beasts...society is rotting - men who once were strong and kept everything working are getting soft - women are making them soft - by the time a pretty girl has reached twenty - she has had three lifetimes worth of fun and attention- so she does not deserve any more -
did not debbie deserve anymore?
no she didn't...
what did you do with her?
you know everyone accuses me of being sick - the press, the tv - but I am not you know - they are - i do not watch it for entertainment every night - i do not sit and watch it whilst eating my dinner - they all say, how could he cut her up? she was dead - i can not hurt something dead - and all this whilst they slobber down their processed beef burgers by the dozen - i could not eat one of those burgers, you do not know what has gone in them!
the press think that the white angel is a woman - why is that? do you dress up leslie?
i do not want to talk about it -
ok, the press call you the white angle because you only kill girls wearing white - why white - white clothes, blonde hair...
i do not know...
is 'their' colour an expression of their inner self? by that i mean, extroverts wear bright colours - so what are people who wear white?
i do not know...
is white an expression of innocence? do you crave innocence leslie?
let me ask you, why do you wear black ellen carter? what are you running from?
do you feel sorry for the girls you have killed
why should i feel sorry - they are dead.
how long have you been watching me?
i have something i have to show you...
tell me about your wife...
my wife  my wife was the only one who really deserved it.  leslie do this. leslie do that. leslie it is your fault... she used to tell me what to wear, where to go, what to do - she mothered me...
then why did you marry her -
it seemed like a good idea at the time - why did you marry your husband.
what did not you like about her?
i hated being treated like a failure - looked down on - my sister used to do that - i hated it - i should have known, when we got married - in a registry office of course - she wore maroon - i just wanted a white wedding  i think she thought i was a ticket to the good life. i had a good job, prospects. and she was a slut - i did not know until too late. one day, i came
you are the first person i have ever told any of this to. we are birds of a feather ellen...we're in the same league
i do not think so...this is not a game you know...there are not points or leagues. sure i killed my husband - but i am no killer.
you have killed but you are not a killer
that is right...don't ever think that you and i are the same - we are not even remotely similar. i did what i had to do for myself, for my own self preservation - not to live out some bizarre role playing fantasy. my husband was sick -
tell me how it happened...
why should i?
why not? please - it would help me
and how did it feel to be rid of him
wonderful - like a great release - he was a malignant cancer and i had to remove him - the world is better without him
my mother...?  i never knew my real mother - i was adopted
tell me about your adopted mother
you think i killed my mother do not you?
did you?
no...i did not do it...i wish i had but i didn't. i was beaten to it. stephanie became my mother.
stephanie?
my sister - my adopted sister -
did stephanie kill your mother?
stephanie loved me - she got some insurance money and took legal custody of me - she was just old enough. we had a ball for years - we could do anything, anywhere, anyhow...and we did...we would play games - she would be the executioner and i would be the convict - she would strap me into the arm chair and pretend to electrocute me...
what was your relationship with stephanie?
it was wrong - all my life i have been cheated - cheated of anything good - i should not have been born - i was a mistake - my natural mother was a whore - that makes me...
i want it to stop - it all to stop...
then make it stop...
what?
i know this sounds insane ellen, but... telling you all of this, writing the book... it feels good. do not get me wrong - i feel like a weight is being lifted from my shoulders... when i tell you what i have done - i can not believe it is me...yet i know it was. this is like a purging for me...
psychiatrists would say that you are confronting your demons
demons... this would not have been possible without you... you have given me incentive ellen - i can see clearer now...
what is wrong?
nothing could be better...
i thought it was you - how are you?
I am good - i was just making a delivery near here, so i thought i would see if you were about...
yes, come on in...
that is good
I would really like it if you would come round some time - then i could cook you a meal - what do you say...
yes, that would be nice - I will call round some time...
good - I have got to dash -  say that i said hello to ellen for me would you...
yes - of course.
dr steckler?
yes...?
inspector dave taylor - scotland yard ...can i have a word?
dead?
or was it, she wished he was dead - that is it - i believe he left the country with another woman - all rather sordid.
so she did not mention anything more about it?
no - she is not in any trouble is she?
oh no sir - just making some enquiries...just tell her that inspector taylor called on you - she will understand
I will be sure to...
i should not really - I am not your surgeon...
who said anything about surgery...it'll only take a moment.
what is wrong?
i am ashamed of what i have done ellen. when i read what you had written it made me think - look into myself - i have not dared look into myself for a long time - i have stopped ellen, i can not carry on - i will not carry on. all i want is to start a new life - i want a second chance...you are good to me - you do not condescend, you are intelligent, and very beautiful...
what is it?
open it...
yes...
you want me to wear white for you? you must be madder than i thought...
but ellen, i told you i have stopped...
but for how long - what will set you off again? you will be walking down the street and some girl will be wearing a white hat - and that will be it - back on the merry go round...
where are you going?
out - i may be some time
we have got nothing to talk about
leslie I am sorry - i - i did not know what to think
i thought we had a relationship built on trust - and you just slap me in the face...
i am sorry...
leslie?  is that good enough?
yes - i suppose so...
you see, i am writing this article for chic magazine
chic magazine?
yes - it is about bank safety deposit boxes - i wonder if you might just explain how they work - and maybe even show me round.
when could i look round?
well, if you could come sometime just before we close, then i could show you everything and  then we could go for a drink to discuss the finer points...
that is very kind of you mr griffiths...?
brian...
but - if you could show me round now - and I will meet you later?
its cramped in here is not it brian
yes it is...
tell me brian, what would happen if the client lost the key?
then we would have to call in our locksmith to break the lock
so there is only one key...
that is right...
and it can not be forged?
i did not say that - I am sure it could be, but our clients must sign in first, checking signatures, and a photo ident - we had a nasty theft two years ago and we have been very strict since then.
yes, I am sure you could - but i can not risk you loosing your job
no -it's no problem - i do it all the time
all the time?
no - not all the time - i mean
i know what you mean - I will meet you at vinnies wine bar at six if you like. and do not make any plans for this evening...
sugar?
yes - one please.
ellen, would you like a cup - there is plenty in the pot
no thanks -
angel...
yes, sorry - he is here to make sure that you are alright
I would watch her mate - she has thing for men - they disappear near her.
i think you had better leave
first finish your tea...
he does not need to...
why did you let him in?
what was i supposed to do?
i do not like sugar
there is not that much - you did not even taste it - what is wrong - do not you like my tea?
it is not that - i just do not want any sugar
why whats wrong with the sugar -
i have not been using it recently leslie
crap! - i wish i had taken a photo of your face when i gave some to that detective - what is wrong ellen - you look pale - maybe you have been eating the wrong kind of foods lately - it could be food poisoning?
whats wrong...what have i done wrong?
nothing leslie - i just think we should wait...
wait for what!?
hello mrs steckler - we have not seen you for a long time
no - I have been abroad for a long time...
i should not say this - but you really remind me of someone i know
oh really - you must remember me from when i was a regular customer.
i was not a manager here then mrs steckler - do not you remember?
I am terribly sorry - i have a bad memory...
this must be one of the old keys -
yes - i have had it for years.
i do not want either of us to come to any harm - please...
you killed my friend!
i loved you ellen - why did you do this?
it is what you would do to me
do not you want me now leslie
no - I will have you after
what happened?
i had an accident - i fell down stairs...
is leslie here?
no he had to - he is just - he is out...
he saved my life you know - has he told you...
