would not it be awesome if we were about to say the exact same thing?
from your lips, to god's ears.
you go first.
ladies first.  i insist.
well. the prom's coming up.
yeah?
and i was wondering.
yeah?
if you do not have...i mean...
teddy? would you please please please take me to the prom?
shut up!  are you serious? of course i will...of course.
come on, bro. spare yourself the humiliation, the degradation...
you and your pep talks.
do not get me wrong. we can salivate over all the christy malones of our lives. wishing we could devour them like melt-in-your-mouth filet mignon. but we are strictly hamburger guys. ground chuck, sixty eight percent lean, is about the best we can hope for.
that is charlie.  my best friend. he is into beef analogies, partly because he is a butcher's son, and partly because, well, he is just into beef analogies. what can i say? he is also a photographer...
i genuinely think she wants me. i feel a vibe.
that vibe is from your wrist, pal. you have been over-tenderizing your meat, again.
see? did you see that?
she smiles at everyone, ted.  she is like a newborn with gas.
the only chick more untouchable than christy malone is miss april.  "hi, my name's ginger. i love tofu burgers, rainy nights, and riding bareback.  my biggest turn-off is cell phones during sex." here's a tip:  set it on vibrate, honey, and do not be stingy with the lube.  do not knock it till you tried it.
were you always this sick?
one thing for sure, christy malone am not lookin that good naked.
someday, I will find out.
you have a better chance of being hit by a mack truck with a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip.
i defy your hamburger theory of life, and all of the unfulfilled hopes and dreams it represents.
that is crazy talk.
i defy any and all limits.
do not do it, ted. do not do it.
any time, any day, a man can completely reinvent himself.
so, william randolph. your last big scoop contrasted the popularity of rice crispie treats and chocolate snickerdoodles at the annual bake sale.
that is just one example. my reporting has made a difference.
let me guess: retail sales of little chocolate sprinkles have gone through the roof!
the school dumpsters used to overflow to the point where the stench was unbearable. my award winning expos changed all that. the city added an extra weekday trash pick-up.
is it true? is ignorance bliss?
look, i loved "exposed!" and i hate it that you got busted. i know the school paper sucks in comparison, but it is really not that bad.
do not even tell me you are hot for miss titty pom poms over there.
christy's a very talented journalist. i see a pulitzer in her future.
i did not know they gave them for best lip gloss retention during a blow job.
me-ow.
go ahead. ask her to the prom. get it over with.
i have absolutely no intention--
--do it. i triple-dog-dare you.
ted, have you lost your mind?
you like me. i like you. i guess it is pretty obvious to everyone.
i do not like you. we are just friends.
but that smile.
oh, ted, duh.  i smile at everyone since i got my braces off.
so you will think about it?
you really do not get it, do you? i am genetically programmed to desire a big, buff, manly man who can defend and provide for me and my yet to be conceived offspring! it's, like, a caveman thing!
so that is a maybe?
the answer is never, ted, never. except maybe in your dreams.
i tried to warn you, william randolph. she is got stiletto heels hidden in those keds.
but you triple-dog-dared me.
it was for your own good, in a twisted sort of publicly humiliating way.
mom, dad. meatloaf has come to represent all that ted hates about his mediocre life and the world we live in. he is what you would call clinically bummed.
why can not we have pot roast or stroganoff or even a little london broil? i mean, for god's sake, we own a grocery store!
what is this? does everybody know everything I am about to say or do every freakin' minute of the day?
no cursing in this house, young man. use the strong vocabulary god gave you.
i do not have a shred of privacy in this whole stupid town!
we understand your disappointment, teddy. christy is a pretty, sexy, provocative, voluptuous...  we...uh...we understand your disappointment.
it is my private business! mine!
in a hurry, are we?
i was in the middle of a melodramatic exit. it would not really make a statement if i tiptoed out the door...what are you selling?
bad news.
people pay good money for that?
I am just a messenger.
oh no. no way. I have had all the bad news i can take for one day.
it is about your parents.
my parents? what do you mean?
I am terrible at this. i blurt. I am a blurter. your parents...they ...well...they exist no further.  skinny-dipping. the amazon. piranhas. it was not pretty.
you have got the wrong guy. the closest my parents have been to the amazon is the brazilian pavilion at epcot.
well kid, I am speaking of...your biological parents.
we have a truckload of strawberries arriving on tuesday morning.
we own a small family grocery store.
how quaint.
it is spring break. i do not want to go to a will reading.
that is part of growing up, honey.
what? having spring break ruined by will readings?
what about charlie?  you boys could make it a little adventure.
charlie, at a will reading? what did i do to deserve this?
i remember spring break of my senior year.  seems like a lifetime ago.
dad, please.
grandpa was so strong back then. working from the crack of dawn. so proud of his peaches.
remember how you struggled through that whole facts of life talk and then found out i knew more than you?
you are way ahead of me again?
it was the year of the rhizopus rot. grandpa almost lost the farm. you sacrificed your dream to go to the prize hog festival. and in the end you saved the peaches and you did not have to slaughter your sow.
the lesson being?
sometimes you have to do stuff you do not want to do. it is all part of growing up. and it usually works out peachy in the end.
I am getting so good at this.
you guys are my parents.
of course we are.
they did not want me when i was born. why should i care...
son.
well, why should i?
they had a rough life. your father was a bouncer. your mother was, well, a two-bit stripper. there was no place for a baby.
i guess.
they did do one great thing. they gave us our boy.
yeah.
be a sport. how bad could spring break in los angeles be?
i guess we could go to disneyland or something.
think of it as a rite of passage to manhood.
like one of those "national geographic" specials with the topless chicks?
whatever helps you cope.
i guess it is better than having tribal patterns carved in my face.
there ya go. always remember, focus on the peach...
...not the pit.
think about it...long tunnel, bright lights, it is full of vaginal symbolism.
poor freud, turning in his grave.
seriously, it is like we are being reborn. we really could reinvent ourselves here, just like you said. nobody knows about your massive humiliation.
nobody knows about your mental retardation.
nobody knows you barfed during junior high school graduation.
nobody knows about your constant masturbation.
and nobody knows you are a virgin!  aw, who are we kidding...
what are the odds of there being another ted nelson on our flight?
astronomical.
who the hell was your father?
well, dad said...
...a bouncer? are you serious?
maybe he got promoted.
this is the life, baby. we get ourselves some tail and we are talking spring break!
cut it out, before you break something!
for a guy about to try his first dom perignon, you are extremely uptight.
do not you know anything about limo etiquette? everything in here is included for our pleasure.
wait a second, i thought we were hamburger guys.
and like every hamburger guy knows, when you get your one big chance at the good life, you abuse every second of it until they figure out you do not belong there and kick your sorry ass out.
you are on the next plane home.
I am helen mcdole.  your father's executive secretary.
are you familiar with "heaven?"
I am seventeen. i know it like the back of my hand.
your fathered owned the entire "heaven" empire.  you own it now. any questions?
oh, sweetheart! we wish we could be right there to hug the living daylights out of you!
but if you are watching this, then it means we bit the dust.
but do not worry...we'll be in heaven. the real heaven, i mean. not that heaven is an actual place, but more like a state of being. or not being. who knows. maybe we know now.
if you are anything like yours truly, then you probably figure we did not want you when you were born, so who cares if we are dead? am i right?
but we did want you. it is just that you do not always get to keep what you want. we knew you needed a real mom and dad.
we had no idea the nudie magazine we started in the garage would turn into all this.
can you believe that was me?
before we knew it, we created the most popular men's magazine in the entire nation. the rest is history.
so here we are. dead. but we never want you to want for anything. that is, we want you to have everything.
everything.
i can not believe that is your mother. we are talking babe-a-licious chub fest, right here in the 501's.
perv.
smashing!  welcome to the family, ted. you are going to breathe some new life into this place. you are going to set the world on fire! you are going to...call me uncle billy? please?
uh, sure. uncle billy.
i have only one concern...
you do like girls, do not you?
of course i like girls.
a lot? i mean, a whole lot?
as much as possible.
you are sure?
the parties are held in here when the weather dips below seventy. which is seldom.
seldom? no kidding?
naked girls, wild sex, video games. no wonder it is called "heaven."
this is a fun place...but we do not usually come here until after the orgies.
ah, in other words, this is the apres-orgy salon?
indeed it is. during the day, visitors prefer to be outside, au naturel. as it were.
this is like my every wet dream come true.  i do not even care that you are here, too, bro.
be cool. fake it if you have to.
i wonder how many of them will be at the orgy tonight?
this is not some 80's porno film, you dip shit. there are no wild sex orgies.
oh. well. maybe not yet.
not ever. never.
never say never.
oh, god.  look. look.
maybe she needs help, ted. you should be a gentleman.
i...uh...i think she is doing fine on her own.
you kiss your mother with that mouth?
I would kiss your mother with this mouth. i mean, if she wasn't, you know...
so far away? in xenia?
yeah, whatever.
I am all right, mom. I am not in siberia, you know.
did you have a nice flight?  are they taking good care of you?
yeah, I am doing fine.  i have so much to tell you.  i do not even know where to begin.
save it, honey.  we want to hear every detail when you get back, but we do not want you to run up mr. zukerman's phone bill.
it is okay, mom.  trust me.
ted, it is your dad.  i have a question for you.  i do not know how to put it tactfully. you know I am lousy with words.
just say it, dad.
i know they were simple people, but did this trip help your college fund at all?
dad, let's just say i can buy anything i want in the whole bookstore. including the bookstore.
well, good. every little bit helps.
check this out.  hurry!
i better go, dad.
hurry.
what is it now?
check it out!
do not tell me.  another vision of incomparable beauty?
beauty? no. we are talking goddess.
i get it now. you and me. we are dead.
dead?
our plane crashed. in the grand canyon. a big fiery explosion. we never made it to l.a. they needed dental records to identify us. and this place. this. actually. is. heaven.
then there must be a whole room, made completely of chocolate.
and some really fast cars.
do not be such a pansy. all of this is yours.
it is a lot to digest. imagine how you would feel.
I would feel like staying up all night! forever! or at least till i got the lay of the land, so to speak.
i feel like I am entering a forbidden tomb...
...where they get all the really good porno channels on cable.
oh, how inappropriate is that!
take a whiff of heaven.
how would you like it if i did that to your mother's panties?
I would call you a sick, twisted fuck. but this is different.  she was not your mother mother--
give me those!
a couple of boys fighting over a pair of red silk panties is nothing compared to what he is seen.
yeah, he is probably been serving cocktails, so to speak, at the orgies.
i-i do not have the keys.
they are in the ignition, silly.
you do know how to drive?
i do not have much experience with a...uh...stick.
want a lesson?
now release the brake. and slide the stick into first gear.
got it.
the first time can be awkward. you just have to get on and try again.
i do not even know if i should be doing this. it is a very expensive car.
it is your car. these are all your cars.
some of them have to be automatics.
your father liked shifting. he said it brought him closer to the engine. "like a woman, purring with ecstasy."
I am ted, by the way. i think i forgot to say that.
i know.  I am ginger. miss april.
the one with the horses.
that is me.
i almost did not recognize you without...you know...that stallion between...your...uh...legs.
hey, ted. wanna go shopping?
shopping, really? i should tell my friend.
do not worry.  he found the chocolate room.
hi ho, silver.
who exactly are you?
what do you mean? I am ted nelson.
and who is ted nelson?
or do you have a taste for the good life, ted? it is in your blood.
i always knew there was more. i felt it.
then remember, you are the heir to a billion dollar empire. you have a staff of literally thousands. multiply everything you ever imagined by a million and you still can not even wrap your head around everything that is yours. all yours.
every one of these women thinks she should be the next angel of the month. it is your job, ted, to decide which of them is right.
let me get this straight...
if it is not straight by now, son, you probably should see a doctor.
these are real, live women?
we do not generally feature blow-up dolls in our magazine. but hey, if you think there is a market for it.
god, i love being dead.
we do not allow tipn, ted.
tipping?
there you are, ted-baby. everything all right?
yeah.  everything's cool.
you ready for your big coming out party? everybody's dying to meet you.
just a couple of finishing touches. my parents always said you never get a second chance to make a good first impression.
they said that? really?  oh, your parents. the nelson's. right, right. how midwest. i like that.
truth is, I am a little nervous.
you? nervous? why on earth should you be nervous?
all those people out there. it is a lot of pressure.
huh! you laugh in the face of pressure!
i do?
you are a multi-media magnate. the tycoon of tits. the baron of bottoms.
you are the sultan of semen. the monarch of masturbation. the merchant prince of lust. you. ted. are the king of coitus.
me? the king of coitus?
the supreme sovereign of sexuality.
whoa. but...that's the thing...  I have never even actually...
why, look who is here.
i told you you could do it.
i was like a different person tonight.
you were the new and improved you.
i would have been laughed right out of xenia.
no one will be laughing at you now, ted. you can take that to the bank.
it is really going to be strange going home in a couple of days.
you are home. but go ahead, finish school, do what you feel you need to do. in the meantime, I will be your point person here on the magazine.
really? you would do that for me?
I have been very lazy for a long, long time.
you seem like you are anything but lazy, uncle billy.
i never finished school myself. never had to. my brother built this empire from nothing but his wife's perky tits and a whole lot of gumption. he gave me a cushy job on a silver platter. i never struggled for a second.
my parents always say hard work builds character.
it is not like i did not have ideas, i had plenty of ideas. but i never even shared them with your father. never had the guts.
what kind of ideas?
well...for one thing...i think it is despicable that we exclude so many women that only fit our western notion of "classic beauty."
you think we should be more open minded?
the world is a big, beautiful place.  we can open new markets in africa and asia.  imagine the dali lhama reading our magazine.
in other words, our scope is too narrow.
at our press conference tomorrow, i think we should announce our plans to explore the world. not just a few leggy 36d's, with blond hair upstairs and down.
that is perfect.
do not forget to tell them all your qualifications.
I am ted nelson. i guess you already know that part.  for two years I have been the editor of the high school paper in xenia, ohio. I have won some awards, made a difference. I have always had journalism in my soul. now i know why.
we can not accept it.  it is much too expensive. right, dear?
of course, dumpling. its very nice of ted but...
sweetheart, what is it?
i always wanted craftsman tools. he even got me the limited edition buckeye colors.
oh, honey. we can not accept this extravagance.
well? surprised?
what is all this? when are you coming home?
just a few tokens of my affection. I will be back soon, do not worry.
everything is lovely, ted, but much too expensive.
mom. believe me. i could buy all that and the factories they came from.
oh, good lord. are those neptunes?
only the best for my mother.
you promise you will finish school?
I will make you very proud.
what gives, don corleone?
we reinvented ourselves.
new hushpuppies do not make a new man.
you have obviously never had your dogs nestled in thousand dollar italian loafers.
that explains the emptiness that haunts me.
jealousy is so unattractive.
i like you, ted. you know that. i liked you before you were filthy rich.
thanks, principal merkin.
I will be blunt. i know you can take it.
yes, sir. I will brace myself.
ted, you are the best editor this school paper ever had. you do not need to be pandering flesh. it is nonsense. it is beneath you.
you think i ought to just tell them thanks but no thanks? i do not want your silly billion dollar empire?
that is a good start, yes. a very good start.
are you kidding? this magazine is my dream. it is every red-blooded, heterosexual male's dream.
i never figured you for a pimp.
have you ever even looked at "heaven?"
what kind of sick question is that? I will be watching you, young man. your money and power mean nothing here. nothing.
i guess you will not be wanting that rolex i sent you, then?
great jacket, teddy bear.
yeah? you like?
makes your shoulders look so big and broad.
a few billion bucks and suddenly he is cro-magnon man of the year.
it is so nice to have friends like you, christy.
what is it, william randolph? your balls need scratching?
your article sucked.
in what sense?
in the sense that there is no "hidden agenda" behind a bake sale that raised five hundred dollars for seeing eye dogs.
ah ha! it was so well hidden, you did not even know it was there.
come on, julie. do not screw up. you have some real talent.
just because someone died and made you king of the publishing world does not mean you are even one ounce smarter than you were a week ago.
I am trying to help.
I am still better than you. nothing changed except the decimal point in your savings account.
that is not entirely true.
what do you want from me? I am trying to be fair. but i can not keep you on staff if you turn every pta meeting into an agent orange cover up.
then I will write about you.
me?
"local boy inherits more money than god." call me crazy, but i smell human interest.
really? you wanna write about me?
finally, some gratitude.
we are grateful, ted. it is not that. those craftsman tools...they're a dream come true.
you do not have to work another day in your lives.
but how would we pay our bills?
do not you get it? in one day i earn more interest than the store's entire annual revenue.
oh. goodness.
you are free.  you can do anything you ever wanted to do!
like what?
like take that trip to buckingham palace. go deep sea fishing in the gulf of mexico. now's your chance.
but those are our dreams, son. we have to make them come true.
consider me your fairy godfather, except without the fairy part. no more mealy apples and bruised bananas, ever, for the rest of your lives.
but who would run the store?
forget the store. think big.
ted, we put a lot of love in our business.
we wanted you and jimmy to have it someday. something real and honest.
we love our lives just the way they are.
i have to admit, i always felt... different.
different how? different like a dwarf at a basketball game? or different like a lesbian in pumps?
i do not get the distinction.
could everybody else tell you were different, or were you the only one who knew?
i felt limited. i felt confined. i felt like i was suffocating.
i see. so more like a tight rope walker who secretly wants to be a trapeze artist.
i guess.
interesting.
she said peanuts, you cretin.
you never know around here.
do not write that part.
is this an gritty expos or a candy ass press release?
write what you want. just try not to make it so obvious that you are crazy about me.
life must be peachy on planet ted.
funny you should say "peachy."
i did my homework. your grandfather was a peach farmer.
my adoptive grandfather. who knows what my biological grandfather did.
undoubtedly an aristocratic bartender of some sort.
considering this is your first time on a private jet, on which you are interviewing the world's most eligible bachelor,  you are extremely cavalier.
i bet there are lots and lots of mirrors on planet ted.
see? you are impertinent, rude, sarcastic.
and this is not my first time on a private jet, so quit acting like I am rebecca of sunnybrook farm.
a little respect would be nice, that is all.
well? what do you think of her?
you are so twitterpated you do not even see the miner's hat and the pickax.
you are implying she's, what, a gold digger?
charlie's right. jealousy is so unattractive.
second only to unbridled, narcissistic conceit.
why can not you be nice to me?
you have got enough people kissing your ass.
how are the hometown folks treating you, back in xenia?
well, jay. they have been exceptionally supportive.
are they hitting you up for donations? asking you to sponsor the local quilting bee?
I am no stranger to the notion of philanthropy. andrew carnegie has long been one of my idols.
what about the future? you planning to rock the boat at all? stir things up in "heaven?"
matter of fact, jay, my uncle and i are planning to rethink the magazine. to expand the traditional western notions of "beauty."
i see, so you would be open to little ladies from pasadena, who want to show you their knickers?
matter of fact, jay, I am planning a pictorial focusing on the women of my hometown, "the girls of xenia." just to show my appreciation.
with all due respect to merk, he does not have to read my magazine. but he has no right to stop others.  ever hear of the first amendment?
we cannot afford free speech if it excises the moral fiber of this community!
if that were true, this would be one seriously constipated town. most guys in xenia have been looking at naked girls in "heaven" since they were old enough to figure out their dads hide it under the mattress.
you are late, bro!
sorry. ginger got a little, you know, enthusiastic.
you will never believe who is in there.
it better not be my aunt trudy.
hi, teddy bear.
christy?  you want to be in "heaven?"
i turned eighteen over spring break. I am eligible.
i feel like I have just been hit by a mack truck.
with a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip.
so far, so good. some of them have real angel potential.
really? so I am doing ok?
my father must have been amazing.
he was in a league of his own.
sorry i--
it is okay. you need me?
your mom said you have been ignoring your chores.
no problem, consider it done.  i had this idea of shooting on location. outdoors, you know? maybe at some famous xenia landmarks. you think that would be a problem?
we will send you the release forms, ted. our staffers will help in any way they can.
you have to understand. this was a big shock, for all of us. one minute you are our little boy, of whom we could not be more proud. the next minute you are the owner of this whole pornographic empire.
but that does not make you the boss of everything, son.
do not you see how your self involvement and lack of humility are affecting the whole family?
i paid off the mortgage! i ordered that winnebago you always wanted! now you are ashamed of me?
you ordered a winnebago?
we are not ashamed of you, teddy. we do not approve of the magazine or the models or the so-called "flesh parties" you attend. but we can get past all that.
we miss you. we miss our son.
we miss our family.
we think you should give up the magazine. sell it. let someone else run it. whatever it takes.
we want you to go to college, find a career you love, marry a nice girl from a nice family, and live happily ever after.
that is your dream, not mine. my dream is so far beyond anything you people could even imagine.
watch your tone, mister.
why do not you just admit what this is really all about? I am not your real kid and you can not control me anymore.
teddy? i was thinking.
hmmm?
after graduation...maybe we could go away together?
whatever you want.
wow...you clean up nice.
put your eyeballs back in your head, william randolph. I am on assignment. a girl has to fit in.
teddy, i thought we were having a moment here.
of course we were.
honestly, merk. it is like you were never seventeen and the head of a media empire.
rules are rules.
come on, it is our only senior prom.
deaf ears, mr. nelson. i answer to a higher power.
you are crossing the line, mr. nelson.
a statue in front of city hall, dedicated to principal dick merkin?
I am warning you.
a new pediatric wing at the hospital? a presidential campaign? name it. anything.
ted! do something!
what do you want me to do?
this is humiliating. we are being ejected from a prom!
hang in there, I will think of something.
well?
i guess...i do not know...i guess we should leave if we are not wanted.
i thought i loved her.
chicks are like buses. if you miss one, do not sweat it. there is another coming 'round the corner.
hell yes, all hundred and seventeen of 'em!
no, leave one. somebody is grandmother might want one.
and while you are at it, I will take ten dozen of those puppies with the springy heads.
i love those springy head puppies!
you kicked us off your turf, merk. do not rain on our parade.
mr. nelson, you disappoint me. first you break our school board rules. then you break the law.
what law, merk? having fun? letting down our hair on prom night?
our state has a zero tolerance policy for underage drinking.
you called the cops on us?
alcohol does horrible things to a developing young mind.
where are we going?
to the best hiding place in the world.
i can not believe your dad built this for you.
he didn't. he had it built.
whatever.
not "whatever."  it is two different things.
he cared enough to want you to have it.
he phoned it in.
i see.
i doubt it.
now it makes sense, the whole neo bohemian, down with hypocrisy, fight the power crap. you are a poor little rich girl.
the ozone must be fully depleted on planet ted.
you think my dad would have been like that if i knew him? you think he would have bought me a stadium, instead of teaching me how to play ball?
your dad taught you everything.
i mean my father.
a father is nothing but sperm, ted. it takes a real man to be a dad.
it is all so complicated.
it is incredibly simple.
i feel like I am being drawn and quartered. like every part of me is being pushed and pulled and tugged in a different direction.
eventually you will let go.
and then what?
then you will see who is really holding on to you.
you are amazing.
i know.
even when you infuriate me, i still want to kiss you.
but you never do.
if we were a team, we could do anything. i mean, anything.
cut to the chase, william randolph. your audience is way ahead of you.
in a word: merk. exposed.
that is two words. and I am out of the "exposed" business, remember? i need to graduate. besides, merk's a boy scout.
there is got to be something. we have to dig deeper.
you forget, i dislike you at least as much as him.
he shut down your paper!  you are stuck writing articles about swap meets and raffles and pta brunches!
a good journalist can take lemons and make lemonade. I am honing my craft.
then you will not mind covering that watermelon seed spitting contest next week...
get them together.
brilliant!  molly, give me all you have got.  for merk.
i never saw anybody turn so many shades of red.
i can not wait to see the pictures.
it was incredible. the light, the crowd, everything.
such enthusiasm. have i told you lately how proud i am of you?
seriously? I am doing all right?
you are taking this bull of an empire by the horns, but you are still keeping your small town values. you are not letting all this "stuff" spoil you.
i owe it all to you. without your help I would be lost.
i wish i knew you years ago, when my brother was alive. i wish he never gave you up.
yeah, well, like my grandpa used to say...you can not change your christmas past, but you sure can exchange your christmas presents.
I would love to, but i really need to crack the books.  final exams are coming up and I have been slacking.
you are right. i should work, too. our first issue together is almost ready to print.
thanks, uncle billy. thanks for everything.
you are a great kid. do not you forget it.
james, what are you doing here?
you can call me jimmy again. sheryl petersen said james sounds too pretentious.
sheryl petersen is, what, nine years old, what does she know?
she knew exactly where you were staying, which you neglected to tell me, your own brother.
it is really late...do your parents know where you are?
impressive. this is bigger than our whole house.
most places are, jimmy.
they say money can not buy happiness but this is a reasonably good facsimile.
so, what brings you here at his hour?
my new bike.
very funny.
i came to ask permission to take custody of your room.
my room?
better view, more spacious, new carpet. it is a no-brainer.
it is not up to me.
mom and dad said it is yours. they seem to think you are coming home.
you can have it, then. I am not going back there.
if you could just sign right there.
you want it in writing?
just a formality.
that is it? i mean, you do not want to order room service or anything? we could play games and watch movies and stuff.
are you kidding? mom and dad discover I am gone and I will be doing hard time.
are they okay?
aside from the fact that mom's eyes are nearly swollen shut from crying and dad spends all his time under the car trying to fix stuff that is not broken, things could not be better.
i miss them, too.
you can not come back. that is, you can, but your things will be in the room you currently think of as mine.
you are a peach.
funny you should say that. my grandfather was a peach farmer.
he was my grandfather, too.
i meant biologically.
that is a crappy thing to say.
look ted. I am cool with everything. you have long been dissatisfied with our mediocre little town. you have always had an itch for the good life. I am happy for you. this could not happen to a nicer guy.
but just for the record, my mom is a kick-ass schoolteacher and my dad is the best damn auto mechanic this side of the himalayas. you seem to have forgotten they opened nelson's family market so they could build something permanent, a legacy, for us. their kids.
i did not forget.
you ever look down on them again and call them "grocers" like it is a dirty word, and you will be sucking your filet mignon through a straw for six to eight weeks. got it?
that is probably my office.
well? where the hell are you?
he is on the move?
i got an anonymous tip and an address in cincinnati.
let's do it.
i do not know. this place seems pretty tame.
you expected whips, chains, merk being cattle-prodded by some dominatrix in a leather hood?
at least it is not another 4-h meeting or a big brother barbecue.
amen to that.
look at us. it is one of the clock in the morning, on a school night. we are in a smoky nightclub, hoping to catch our principal with some big city tart.
I am trembling with excitement.
that has more to do with your proximity to me.
my desire betrays me, like goosebumps on my flesh.
i have a bit of a goosebump fetish. not many people know that.
i figured you for more of a hairy armpit guy.
shoes, if you want to know the truth. shoes are my thing.
wearing them?  or humping them?
my fantasy is a totally naked woman, wearing nothing but a timex and suede clogs.
that is refreshingly deviant.
what about you?
I am very aural.
tell me more.
sounds, voices, music, humming. all of it can turn me on, or off, like a switch.
i see.
i had a portuguese boyfriend who could read the phone book and melt me.
a portuguese boyfriend. sounds very "cosmo."
you live and learn. i realized the most important thing to me, above all, is trust.
turned out to be a scoundrel, eh? i saw that one coming.
you lose trust in someone and it is over, done, gone, forever.
do you trust me, julie?
not a chance.
come on.
trust is something you earn, over time. you do not just inherit it overnight like a gazillion dollar empire.
i want you to trust me.
maybe someday.
julie, I will tell you something that is the god's honest truth. I have seen a lot of really beautiful girls. i mean a lot. but none of them make me feel like you do.
that is hard to believe.
but absolutely true.
i have to be honest with you, ted. i really despise "the girls of xenia."
i know, their small town mentality can be maddening.
i mean your pictorial. it bothers me, profoundly.
aw julie, it is my job. it is like being a doctor.
you are telling me you do not get aroused by a roomful of naked breasts.
you have seen one naked breast, you have seem them all.
which explains the continued success of "heaven" for how many decades?
you are quick. i like that.
you think you are working with chimps here?
the thing is, i made a commitment. i said I would do it and i have to keep my word.
keeping your word is something i can actually respect, ted.
i thought I would be nervous, but you sure know how to make a girl feel relaxed, teddy bear.
i do? i mean, yeah, i do.
i have to admit, i am so totally turned on. we should do it. now.
do it?
you know...take the pictures?
i remember the first time you walked into mrs. temple's class in 2nd grade. blue gingham dress. blond ponytail.
which you pulled, hard!
that was code for "i like you."
remember dress up day?  you and charlie lifting skirts during recess.
i miss those days, when schoolyard sexual harassment was without consequence.
things change. now I am taking off my clothes...all by myself.
well?
you have changed since second grade.
i mean, what do you think?
you expect me to think at a time like this? there is not a drop of blood in my brain.
oh, teddy bear, you are funny.
i was always too shy to admit how much i liked you.
come on, i was hamburger. you were porterhouse.
maybe on the outside. but inside, deep down, I have always been dripping with special sauces.  are you hungry?
god, you are so hot.
then you better get in the water, before you get burned.
yes?
we have got a huge problem with the magazine, ted-baby. our readers hate it. hate it. we need to talk.
holy stinkers, what were you thinking?
we wanted to challenge the notions of classic beauty. we wanted to showcase women throughout the world.
next time, make sure you put a barf bag in the centerfold.
it is a little more serious than that, bill. the stockholders have requested a meeting. they want our guarantee that this will never happen again.  some of them are even calling for ted's resignation.
look, the girls of xenia are gorgeous, you will see. next month we will be back to normal.
your parents never wanted to interfere with your life, ted. they knew your mom and dad loved you very much. they knew they did the right thing. but that does not mean they did not watch you and miss you, from afar.
you mean they knew who i was?
they kept this scrapbook of your life. it meant the world to them.
i wondered about them, for so many years. i wondered if i looked like them, acted like them. i wondered why they gave me up.
giving you up was the most unselfish thing they ever did. when they founded "heaven," they wished they could take you back but it was too late. all they could do was build the empire, knowing that someday it would all be yours.
my legacy.
your parents would be crushed to think you were not happy with it.
they are not my parents, helen. my parents are back in xenia and i hurt them very much.
i understand.
and the girl i love, she hates "heaven." if i keep it, she will never respect me.
but how can you respect yourself if you don't?
everything i am is because of you. can you ever forgive me?
oh, teddy. we missed you so much.
shut your pie hole, jimmy.
i will not have my boys arguing.
i need your help.  I am really in deep shit.
do not say "shit," honey. use the strong vocabulary god gave you.
i loved my brother. i stood by his wishes to let his son run the company. a son he never knew. a son that he and his wife gave away at birth. a son who was raised in a world quite different from our own. nevertheless, i was there for the lad. i guided him as best i could. but he is only seventeen, with a mind of his own and judgment that is, well, frankly, not a chip off the old block. there is only one clear solution...  and i think we all know what that is--
--peaches! canned peaches!
what are you doing?
my job. back off, benedict.
thanks for teaching me an important lesson. what makes a family is love, not blood.
all is fair in "heaven," ted-baby.
that is right. and guess who is the new king of the unemployment line.
aw, come on, kid. throw me a bone. I am your uncle for gosh sakes.
not bad for a hack. he has a future in yellow journalism.
he kicked major ass and you know it.
great.
from my wise, albeit youthful, vantage point, the world is your oyster. you scored big.
you got everything you ever wanted.
except the girl. the only one that really mattered.
julie, wow. i was afraid you left. i was afraid I would never see you again.
I am not going anywhere, ted. you are the one with the champagne wishes and caviar dreams.
i decided to let helen run the magazine. i need to go to college, learn a few things, you know.
and i thought maybe I would take up boating. I have always wanted to be a "coxswain."
very ambitious. i like that.
the thing is, I will need a first mate.
i know where you can find any number of naked girls who would love to hop on board.
planet ted. five years from now. what is happening?
i graduated from college. did great, summa cum laude and all. and I am about to launch a brand new magazine called "exposed!"  an homage to miss julie conroy of xenia, ohio.
i know where you can find an excellent editor-in-chief.
yellow pages?
let your fingers do the walking.
they are playing our song.  dare i ask for this dance?
you better.
