what is this, roger?
a tweeting bird?
that is right, a tweeting bird.  but what does the script say?  'rabbit gets conked.  rabbit sees stars!'  not birds, stars!
please, raoul.  i can give you stars, i know i can.  just drop the safe on my head one more time.
I have already dropped it on you twenty-three times.
do not worry about me.  i can take it.
I am not worried about you.  I am worried about the safe.
valiant, did you see the rabbit?
he was blowin' his lines, all right. so what?
so what?  he is already put me three weeks behind on the shooting schedule!
how much do you know about show business, valiant?
only there is no business like it, no business i know.
yeah, and there is no business as expensive.  I am twenty-five grand over budget on the latest bunnysitter cartoon and it is all because that rabbit can not keep his mind on his work. and you know why?
one too many safes dropped on his head?
nah, that goes with the territory. he is a stunt bunny.
here's the problem...  "seen cooing over calamari with notsonew sugar daddy was jessica rabbit... wife of maroon star, roger".  his wife's a tramp, but he thinks she is betty crocker.  the doubt's eatin' him up.
so what do you want me to do?
get me a couple juicy pictures. somethin' i can wise the rabbit up with.
i do not work in toontown.
you do not have to.  the rabbit's wife sings at an underground toon revue joint called the ink & paint club.  you can catch her in action there.
the job's going to cost you a hundred bucks.
a hundred bucks?  that is ridiculous.
so's the job.
i got him on loan from disney.
are not you the lucky one...
when will i hear from you?
as soon as is humanly possible.
so, makin' dame jokes, huh, eddie? well, lemme remind ya pal, it was a dame who took a hundred bucks out of the till so your landlord would't throw you out of your dump.  and it was a dame who trusted you for the money when no one else in town would.  and it is a dame who is tired of waitin' for you to straighten yourself out and get a job!
would this be the same dame who is going to feel awfully foolish when she finds out I have got her money.
this is fifty bucks.  i need seventy-five before they check the books tomorrow.
you will have it in the morning.  now be a sport and lemme have twenty bucks to put in my pocket.
is this paper even good?
check the scrawl.
r.k. maroon.
gee, it is swell to see you, eddie.  we miss you in toontown.
wish i could say the same.  what are you doin' here, betty?
work's been slow for me since the cartoons went to color.  but i still got it, eddie...  'boop boop be-doop'.
yeah, you still got it, betty.  who is mr. jocularity?
that is marvin acme, the gag king.
shoulda guessed.
he comes here every night to see jessica rabbit.
big on the musical comedy, huh?
sounds like you ve never seen her, eddie.
pattycake!  pattycake!
baker's man... but no use ruinin' a good pair of shoes over it.
well, you better start thinkin' about drinkin' it black.
frankly, I am shocked.  marvin acme's been my friend and neighbor for thirty years.
son-of-a-bitch...  mr. maroon, i think I will be goin' now, so about the rest of my fee...
sure, valiant, sure...
my advice?  hop on over to reno, get yourself a quickie divorce.
divorce?  never!
tell me you did not do a snoop job for a toon named roger the rabbit.
that is what you woke me up for?
now what?
just have not been this close to toontown for awhile.
they say the rabbit got the safe idea from a cartoon he was makin' the other day.
what a gasser.
wait here...
he is not my client.  i was workin' for r.k. maroon.
yes, we talked to mr. maroon.  he told us the rabbit became quite agitated when you showed him the pictures, and said nothing would stand in the way of him getting his wife back.  is that true?
hey, pal, do i look like a stenographer?
men?  they look more like weasles to me.
yes, i find that weasles have a special gift for the work.  the rabbit did not contact you by any chance, did he?
why would he contact me?  i just took some lousy pictures.
so you would not have any idea where he might be?
have you tried walla walla?  kokomo's very nice this time of year.
where did this gargoyle come from anyway?
no one knows.  he bought the election a few years back.  he is been rulin' toontown ever since.
what is with the dip?
that is how he gets rid of the troublemakers.  it is a combination of acetone, turpentine and paint remover. he calls it the...  final solution.
hey, eddie, looks like you really stepped in it this time.
what are you complaining about?  here's your fifty bucks.
a new outfit bought the red car.  some big company called cloverleaf industries.
no kiddin'?  bought the red cars, huh?
bastards put him on notice.
do you think the rabbit did it?
i do not wanna think.  i wanna drink.
we do not serve formula. snookums.
you serve martinis, doncha?
yeah...
make it dry.  baby does not like to be wet.  you are valiant, right?  the name's baby herman.
i know who you are.  kinda out of your neighborhood, are not you?
yeah, i had to go slummin'.  see, a friend of mine's bein' framed.
you mean the rabbit?  they got him cold.
you do not believe that.  i mean. the guy's an idiot, a moron, a complete fool...  but he would never kill anyone. i know the guy.
oh, a ladies man, huh?
my problem is i got a fifty-year-old lust and a three-year-old dinkie.
my problem is i come here to drink in peace.  so if you do not mind...
c'mon, valiant, does not this whole thing smell a bit funny to you?  i mean, no offense, but how did a mucky-muck like r.k. maroon find you in the first place?
yeah, eddie, it is not like you got an ad in the yellow pages.
thanks for the vote of confidence.
and another thing, the paper said no will was found.  but every toon knows acme had a will and, in it he promised to leave toontown to the toons.
so where is it then?
somebody took it from him.  that is what this whole thing's about.
the papers said the safe door was opened, eddie.
stick to stuffin' the olives, willya, dolores?
my hunch is it was maroon.  he always was after acme's property.
yeah?  does he wear pants this color?
no.  but neither does roger.  that is diablo red.  roger's pants are sunrise orange.
well, I will be...
so what is your next move, valiant?
so you are not even going to bother to find out if the rabbit's gettin' framed?
he is a toon... who cares?
aah!
aah!
what the hell are you doin'?
i needed a place to hide.  I am in trouble, eddie.
so i hear.  even talkin' to you could get me a rap for aiding and abetting.
do not worry, eddie, no one knows I am here.
oh, yeah?  then how did you find my house?
well, i asked the newsboy on the corner.  he did not know.  then i asked a janitor, the fireman and finally the green grocer down the way.  he was very helpful.
in other words, the whole goddamn world knows you are here!  out!  get out!
look, pal, if you are still here when i finish this drink, I am callin' the police.
do not do that!  I am innocent i tell ya. the police'll just dip me.  they were waitin' for me when i got home last night.  i ran.
if you are so innocent, why did you run?
gee, eddie, I am a rabbit.  we always run.
eddie valiant... you are under arrest! just kidding...
you idiot.  i lost the key for those cuffs.
hey!  what do you think you are doin'?
sorry, eddie, i forgot you are not a toon.
do not ever forget that.
jesus, eddie, is this who i think it is?
dolores, meet roger rabbit.
he is a riot.
oh, yeah?  well, you are not handcuffed to him.  anybody in the back room?
it is all yours.
so you decided to help him after all?
i oughta have my head examined.  will you hold still?
does this help?
yeah, that is better.
you mean to tell me you coulda taken your hand outta that cuff at any time?
well, no, not any time.  only when it was funny.
are you always this funny, or only on days when you are wanted for murder?
my philosophy is if you do not have a sense of humor, you are better off dead.
yeah... well you just might get your wish.
can you get him out of it, eddie?
if i can find whoever wanted to kill acme bad enough to get this.
yeah.  i think maroon plays the part of the sound mind, your wife the sound body.
i resent that innuendo!  my wife is completely innocent.
your wife may be a lot of things, pal, but innocent is not one of them.
so what is the scam, eddie?
maybe baby herman was right.  somebody wants acme's property.  cack the old man, pin it on roger, and destroy the will.
the habeus corpus is thickening.
yeah.  except they screwed up.  i do not think they got the will.
how do you know that?
well, acme had the will in his pocket that night at the club.  it was gone in the morning when the cops found the body.
maybe they just took it out of his pocket.
then why did they bother to crack the safe?  you can drop a mosler 90 from mount baldy and it will not open.
well, mr. smarty-pants detective, your logic is specious.  what prevented mr. acme from putting the will back in the safe before they killed him?
because he is not forty feet tall.  the safe was up on the ceiling, remember?
eddie, you still got it.  hey, tomorrow maybe I will go down to probate court and see who is sniffin' around acme's estate?
yeah, do that.  I am going to go rattle maroon's cage.
hi, mr. maroon.  remember me?
valiant?  what are you doin' here?
i just thought I would drop by and show you a photograph.
I have already seen your photographs.
yeah, but i enlarged this one.  thought you might be interested.
being caught breaking and entering is not very good advertising for a detective.  what were you looking for, mr. valiant?
ask her...
last week some heavy breather wanted one of my nylons as a souvenir.  maybe that is what he was after?
look, doll, if i wanted underwear, i woulda broken into frederick's of hollywood.  i was lookin' for marvin acme's will.
marvin acme had no will.  i should know, the probate is in my court.
he had a will, all right.  she took it off acme the night she and r.k. maroon knocked him off.  then she set up her loving husband to take the fall.
they must have taken it off me.
they?
the other people who were in here lookin' for the will.  i woulda caught 'em if cheetah here had not interrupted me.
take it easy, bongo.  we will handle mr. valiant our own way... downtown.
downtown?  fine.  get a hold of santino, I would be more than glad to talk to him.
oh, not that downtown.  toontown.
you are not takin' me to downtown toontown?
indeed we are.  we will continue the interrogation there.
i am not tellin' you nothin'!  get me santino.
you are a very stubborn man, mr. valiant.  very pig-headed.  boys, show mr. valiant how we handle pig-headed men at the toontown station...
here's one for the books... a toon wearin' human clothes.
earl... it is me, valiant.
eddie?  jesus, what happened?
toon cops worked me over.
boy, I will say.  they gave you a real toon-a-roo.
what am i, earl?
you are a pig... a happy-go-lucky pig.
no...
does it hurt?
not much.  it is hard to talk.
uh, eddie, do me a favor.  could you sit in the back so you will not cause as much of a commotion.
hello, mr. valiant.  i rang the doorbell, but i guess you could not hear it.
that is because i do not have a doorbell.
oh... well, i... i just had to see you.
okay, you have seen me.  now give me a towel.
come on, lady, have not you ever seen a mole before?
toons are not given imperfections.
no?  i guess we are not counting lying, stealing and murder.
you have got the wrong idea about me. i'a a pawn in this just like poor roger.  can you help me find him?  I will pay you anything.
yeah, I will bet you would.  you got to have the rabbit to make the scam work.
no, no, no... i love my husband.
oh, sure.  i can just feature you standin' outside your little hutch, holdin' a carrot cake waitin' for hubby to come home.
oh, please do not make fun of me, mr, valiant.  you do not know how hard it is being a woman looking the way i do.
yeah, well, you do not know how hard it is bein' a man looking at a woman looking the way you do.
I am not bad, I am just drawn that way.
I am not complainin'.  but give me credit.  I am the guy who took the pictures of you and acme playin' pattycake, remember?
so altruistic.
it is the truth.  why will not you believe it?
cause i do not take acme dumb pills.  i do not know what you are up to, lady, but I am going to nail you for the acme murder.
if I am as bad as you think, what is stopping me from just killing you right now?
what was that?
that was the rabbit's wife.
the rabbit's wife?  wanna tell me what she was doin' with her arms around you?
probably lookin' for a good place to stick a knife.
i just stopped by to tell you that i checked out the acme probate.
maroon, right?
nope.  it is that cloverleaf outfit again.
what the hell would they want with a gag factory?
got me.  but unless the will shows up by friday midnight, it is theirs.
what is that comin' from the bar?
sounds like singin'.
oh, no...
hey, do not i get an encore?
why, you crazy toon... I have been out there riskin' my neck for you.   i come back here and you are singin' and dancin'.
but that is my calling, my purpose, my raison d'etre.  toons are supposed to make people laugh... and believe me, those people needed a laugh.
and when they are done laughin' , they are going to call the cops.  that guy angelo would rat on you for a nickel!
angelo?  he is a pal, a chum...
an arsonist and a kidnapper.  he just got outta prison.
well... i still do not think he would turn me in.
just because you got 'em to laugh?
a laugh can be a powerful thing, eddie. sometimes it is the only weapon we have in life.
i think i prefer the smith and wesson variety.
I have met some cynical and miserable humans in my time.  but you, edward valiant, are positively funereal!
well, right now it is going to be your funereal.
i do not think it is going to matter. sorry, pal, i tried.
yes, and for that you are charged with aiding and abetting.  but we will let santino handle that.
hey, does not the rabbit even get a last request?
a blindfold, cigarette, noseplugs? just kidding.
i think you want a drink.  how about it, judge?
well, why not?  I am feeling magnanimous tonight.  the successful conclusion of this case draws the curtain on my career as a jurist. I am retiring to take a new role in the private sector.
yeah?  well, do not expect the toons to give you a gold watch.
here you go, kid... say hi to casper for me.
but, eddie, you know what happens when...
drink it, jerk.  all of it.
oh, eddie, that was quick thinkin'. nothin' like usin' the old noggin, the noodle, the grey matter...
if I am so smart, how come I am runnin' from the law with a toon?
valiant and valiant?  who is the other valiant?
my brother.  get inside.
so what is our plan, our scenario, our modus operandi?
we can not do anything till it is dark.
say, who is this guy laughin'?
me.
gee, i did not recognize you... I have never seen you laugh before.  that your brother makin' the rabbit ears?
what is this, twenty questions?
you damn toon!  no wonder they picked you for the patsy.  always gotta play the fool.  you make me sick!
gee, you shamuses are a tough audience, but what happened to you that was so dark, lurid, embittering?
you wanna know?  well, since you are so goddamn curious, I will tell ya.  one of you toons killed my brother.
a toon?  noooo.
yeah, a toon.  it was the guy who killed bambi's mother.
him?  oh, he was vile, heinous, despicable... a smear on the drafting board.
yeah, everybody thought so.  but me and teddy got a kick out of toons.  all toons.  we could not see the bad in 'em. and when this guy was accused of knockin' over the first national bank of toontown, we took his case.  but when we looked into it, we found out he did do it after all.  we went to his house to take him in.  but he was wise. he got the drop on us... literally.
safe?
piano.  guy got away, disappeared into toontown.  nobody ever saw him again.
I will get it.
get away from there.
wrong number?
no, it is not.
i was hopin' you would be there.  maroon's called here about four times.  he says he is got to talk to you tonight.  he says he can help you.
I will bet.
are you gonna call him, eddie?
what have i got to lose?  you okay, dolores?
yeah... they closed me down for a coupla weeks.
that will work out just fine.  when this thing is over, I will take you to catalina.  how does that sound?
familiar.  be careful, eddie.
maroon?  whaddaya want?
have you got the will?
maybe.  why?
meet me at my studio at nine o'clock. if you have got the will maybe we can stop this thing.
stop what?
gee, eddie, you are not going to go, are ya?  maroon'll be layin' for ya at nine o'clock.
that is why I will be there at 8:45.
i tell you what, maybe i better come with you.
forget it.
you know, eddie, I am not as much of a chump, and a patsy, a yokel as you think.
how much is a shave and a haircut, roger?
two bits.
i rest my case.
if i do not make it back here by ten...
yeah?
... I would head for cucamonga.
valiant!  you surprised me.
that was the idea.
you are not too good at this, are you, r.k.?
no... I am not.  I am a cartoon maker, not a murderer.
well, everybody needs a hobby.
no, you got to understand, valiant, i had nothin' to do with acme gettin' killed.  i just wanted to sell my studio.  but they would not buy my property unless acme would sell his. and he wouldn't.  so i was going to blackmail acme with pictures of him and the rabbit's wife.
you got the will in there, do not ya?
no, i don't.
you tricked me, damn you!
take it easy.
there is no time to take it easy!  you do not realize the diabolical mind we are dealing with!
what the hell are you doin' in there?
i followed you to the maroon studios. when i heard those shots, i thought I would help you and investigate the inside of this trunk.
you shot roger.
that is not roger.  it is one of doom's men.  he killed r.k. maroon.
lady, i guess i had you pegged wrong.
do not worry, you are not the first.  we better get out of here.
it was doom who killed acme, you know?
why did not you tell me?
i did not know who i could trust.
we are even.  by the way, i did find your husband.
where is he?
he is right here in the...
how did you get onto doom?
marvin told me.  doom was after his land.  ne was afraid.  that is why he brought me his will.
so where is it?
when i opened up the blue envelope, all that was inside was a blank piece of paper.
a joker to the end.
looks like our goose is cooked, our hash is slung, our fait is accompli...
lemme guess where you got that from. tell me somethin', what did you ever see in that guy anyway?
he made me laugh.
hold on a second.
eddie, come on.
these roads can be very treacherous at night, especially in a maniacal toon vehicle.
the pot's callin' the kettle maniacal.
I have had enough of your insolence!  put him in my car.  i think they will enjoy attending our ribbon cutting at the acme factory.
no matter.  i do not expect the will to show up in the next fifteen minutes.  by then cloverleaf will own toontown quite legally.
so you are cloverleaf?
no one person is cloverleaf.  we are a vast company with diverse interests... gasoline, tires, automobiles.
come on, doom.  what would a company like that want with toontown?
it was not toontown they wanted.  it was my idea of how to put the land to better use.
do not you think anyone's going to notice that toontown's gone?
they will not care.  who is going to miss some ridiculous talking mice when they can have the future?
right here where we are standing, will be the cornerstone of my idea... the cloverleaf -- an elegant cement structure that intertwines freeways.
what the hell's a freeway?
a freeway, mr. valiant, is eight lanes of asphalt running uninterrupted from l.a. to pasadena.  pasadena to hollywood.  hollywood to santa monica. someday everyone will be in cars driving happily, non-stop from one end of the l.a. basin to another.
that is what this is all about?  tell me, who is going to use your lousy freeway? we got the red cars, the best public transportation in the country.
not for long.  we are retiring the red cars.  people will drive, mr. valiant, because they will have to.  and when they drive, they will have to buy our cars, our tires, our gasoline.
real good, rog... but maybe you better let me take over.
not before i satisfy my sense of moral outrage.
holy shit, he is a toon!
surprised?
not really.  only a toon could think of something as goofy as that freeway idea.
you?
that is right, me.
what the hell is that?
doom.
jesus christ... that was the judge?
that is not blood.  that is ink.  that goof acme squirted me with some the other day.  why it is comin' 'through now, i do not know.
that is because it is disappearing-reappearing ink.  shows up three days later.  gives you enough time to get away from the victim so he does not punch you in the nose.  great gag.
yeah...
say roger, remember that love letter you wrote your wife at the ink & paint club?
yeah?
i think you oughta read it to her.
good idea.
keep reading...
hey, it is the will.  i, marvin acme, of sound mind and body, hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo, do hereby bequeath in perpetuity the property known as toontown to those loveable characters...
no, kid, you are a real hero.
i guess i am at that.  cigar?
by the way, roger, you were right about your wife.  she is a good lady.  I am glad you got her back.
and I am glad you got your sense of humor back.  think you will keep it?
only time will tell.
pretty good cigar.  where did you get it?
from this box here...
