...sailor ripley... can i talk to lula?
there is no way in hell you can speak to her and...
what?...
...yes you heard me... do not ever call back here again.
mama???
you know who it was and you know you aren't, and i mean are not going to see him ever... end of story.
like hell.
i can dig this music... but not that singer.
why? he is right in the groove.
he is so ugly. guys with beards and beer guts am not quite my type.
seein's how you are about as thick as a used string of unwaxed dental floss, do not know how you can criticize.
yeah, well, if he says that all that flab turns into dick at midnight, he is a liar.
meetin' him at the gate. that phone call this afternoon was the signal. my deranged mama's hid the keys to my car. but of course, i know exactly where they are.
i did not hate me so much, I would feel better wishin' you luck.
can not all husbands be perfect, and your elmo prob'ly wouldn'ta ever got that second one pregnant, you had not kicked his ass out.
so you are going to be needin' the "blue- bird" pretty soon?
real soon... I will be makin' the swap tomorrow, and thanks again, beany.
hey baby...
peanut...
hey, my snakeskin jacket... thanks, baby... did i ever tell you that this here jacket for me is a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom?
'bout fifty thousand times. i got us a room at the cape fear, and guess what?... i hear powermad's at "the hurricane."
stab it and steer.
did you ever think somethin' like about the wicked witch of the east comin' flyin' in?... did you ever think somethin' and then later think you have said it out loud to someone?
i really did miss your mind while i was out at pee dee, honey. the rest of you, too, of course. but the way your head works is god's own private mystery. what was it you was thinkin'?
well, i was thinkin' about smokin' actually... my mama smokes marlboros now, used to be she smoked kools? i stole 'em from her beginnin' in about sixth grade. when i got old enough to buy my own, i bought those. now I have just about settled on mores, as you probably noticed? they are longer.
i guess i started smokin' when i was about six... my mama was already dead from lung cancer...
what brand'd she smoke?
camels, same as me... guess both my mama and my daddy died of smoke or alcohol related illness.
gee, sailor. I am sorry, honey. i never would have guessed it.
it is okay. i hardly used to see them anyway. i did not have much parental guiding. the public defender kept sayin' that at my parole hearin'. he was a good old boy, stood by me... even brought me some cartons of cigarettes from time to time.
I would stand by you, sailor... through anything.
hell, peanut, you stuck with me after i planted bob ray lemon. a man can not ask for more than that.
you are perfect for me, too.
you remind me of my daddy, you know? mama told me he liked skinny women whose breasts were just a bit too big for their bodies. he had a long nose, too, like theirs. did i ever tell you how he died?
in a fire, as i recall.
started he could not remember things? got real violent? mama kept tellin' me it was on account of lead poisoning from cleanin' the old paint off our house without usin' a mask... but i do not know. seems like his brain just fell apart in pieces.
you have such a pretty, long neck, like a swan.
grandmama pace had a long, smooth white neck. it was like on a statue it was so white?
i knew this would happen. soon as that piece of filth got out of pee dee, i knew there would be trouble. he is just got some kind of influence over her i can not decipher. there is somethin' wild in lula i do not know where it comes from. you got to find 'em, johnnie.
he served his time for what he did. another thing... if lula went with him of her own volition - willingly, that is - there am not much can be done about it.
do not talk down to me, johnnie farragut. i know what volition means, and that is why i want sailor ripley off the planet! he is pure slime and it is leakin' all over my baby. maybe you could push him into makin' some kinda move and then kill him dead. you would only be defendin' yourself, and with his record, nobody'd fuss.
I will hire a hit man if you do not want to help me stop this thing. I will call marcello santos.
now, marietta, i am goin' to help you. and do not be gettin' carried away. you do not want to be bringin' santos and his people into it.
you are just jealous of santos cause he is sweet on me.
darlin', you am not seein' santos again, are ya?
oh, johnnie farragut... do not you trust your very own marietta?
sorry, sweetheart. bein' in love with you like i am brings out that ugly jealous side.
well stop worryin' about me and start worryin' about how you are going to get that lula back here and away from that murderer.
sailor am not a murderer. you got to get off that kick. and far's i can tell, sailor was entire clean prior to that involvin' lula. even there he was protectin' her. you oughta be thankin' him for that. that bob ray lemon they say was comin' after the both of 'em. why am i tellin' you this, you was around that night. you ought to know just exactly what happened. sailor just got a little too forceful is all... you remember that night...
maybe i was there, but i did not see anythin'. all i know's that trash killed a man with his bare hands. hands which are now prob'ly all over my baby!
marietta, settle down now darlin'... i want what is best for her, too - like i said, I will do what i can to bring her home.
sailor, you are somethin' else, honey... when i was fifteen, mama told me that pretty soon I would be startin' to think about sex, and i should talk to her before i did anything about it.
but honey, i thought you told me your uncle pooch raped you when you was thirteen.
that is true. uncle pooch was not really an uncle. he was a business partner of my daddy's? and my mama never knew nothin' about me and him - that is for damn sure. his real name was somethin' kind of european, like pucinski. but everyone just called him pooch. he came around the house sometimes when daddy was away. i always figured he was sweet on mama, so when he cornered me one afternoon, i was surprised more'n a little.
how did it happen, peanut? he just pull out the old toad and let it croak?
you are terrible crude sometimes, sailor, you know?
i can not hardly understand you when you talk with one of them mores in your mouth.
i said you can be too crude sometimes? i do not think i care for it.
sorry, sugar. go on and tell me how old pooch done the deed.
well, mama was at the busy bee havin' her hair dyed? and i was alone in the house.
uncle pooch came in the side door through the porch, you know? where i was makin' a jelly and banana sandwich? i remember i had my hair in curlers cause i was goin' that night with vicki and cherry ann, the desoto sisters. uncle pooch must have known nobody but me was home, cause he came right in and put both his hands on my butt and sorta shoved me up against the counter.
did not he say somethin'?
so how did he finally nail you? right there in the kitchen?
no, he picked me up.
he was short but powerful. with hairy arms? anyway, he carried me into the maid's dayroom which nobody used. we did it there on an old bed.
'we' did it? whattaya mean? did not he force you?
well, sure. but he was super-gentle, you know? i mean, he raped me and all, but i guess there is all different kinds of rapes. i did not exactly want him to do it but i suppose once it started, it did not seem all that terrible. it was over pretty quick, and after uncle pooch just stood there and pulled up his trousers and left me there. i stayed in bed till i heard him drive off. then i just went back into the kitchen and finished makin' my sandwich.
and you never told nobody about it?
just you. uncle pooch never acted strange or different after. and he never did anything else to me. i always got a nice present from him at christmas, like a coat or jewelry?
one hundred twenty decibels - head on collision of a '54 ford pick-up and a '64 chevy station wagon. no survivors. balls of flame and grinding metal.
uncle pooch died in a car crash three years later while he was holidayin' in myrtle beach. they still got way too much traffic there for my taste... and another thing, baby... that government of ours should be keepin' us separated from outer space...
here she goes again...
sailor, that ozone layer is disappearin'. seems to me the government could do somethin' about it. one of these mornings the sun'll come up and burn a hole clean through the planet like an x-ray.
you okay, honey?
that woman's laugh creeps me out. i heard somethin' like that... somewhere before... sound'd like the wicked witch...
just sounded like an old gal havin' a good time to me... you ready to dance?
I am always ready to dance. but i need me a kiss first, honey. just one?
i knew you would want it again...
that is not why i called.
oh yeah - sure... okay.
santos... it isn't.
have it your way... but you want it.
lula's gone off with sailor.
what do you want me to do about it?
i want you to take care of sailor, so he will not ever be able to bother my baby again.
take care of him?
yes.
what does take care of him mean? do you want me to give him food or some clothing?
what is with you? you know what take care of him means. i do not call santos except for one big reason.
big is the key word, and I am telling you i want it bad.
i want you to get rid of sailor.
get rid of him?
yes... get rid of him.
how would i do that? send him on a trip - like maybe to hawaii?
santos, why in hell do you insist on playin' this stupid game?
just tell me what you want.
i do not need to explain anymore'n i have... you know damn well.
you need to explain it.
all right... i want you... to... kill... sailor... as simple as that.
simple? kill him? how?
that is your business... i do not care how.
like an accident where maybe lula might also get hurt?
no... for god's sakes, santos!
well, like kill him with the atomic bomb?
santos...
explain it... i told you.
shoot him.
shoot him? like with a gun?
yes.
where? in the leg?
no.
where?
in the head.
shoot sailor in the head with a gun... now I am beginning to get it... you want me to shoot sailor in the head with a gun.
yes.
but where in the head? not the chin, i hope.
no... in the brains... what little I am sure he has.
you want me to shoot sailor in the brains with a gun.
yes.
through the forehead?
yes.
wrong! it is much better to blow a hole in the back of the head... right toward the bridge of the nose... lots and lots of irreparable damage.
see! i knew you had it all under control.
why did not you send johnnie farragut?
maybe i did... try new orleans first... lula can not ever stop talkin' 'bout that town.
on one condition...
you give me your permission to kill johnnie farragut.
santos... no... please, santos...
you are not tellin' me that you are sweet on him?
no... but...
one day he is going to find out what we are up to with mr. reindeer, and he could cause us a lot of trouble.
I am going to take your silence as a "yes"...
santos... i can't...
shhhh... it is all right... also, i either take you or that pretty daughter of yours to bed.
you fucker, do not you ever touch lula - you fucker, I will kill you.
put your shoulders back.
what?
put your shoulders back, i said.
you got nice tits.
someone is going to see us.
that is just another part of the price to pay.
santos... you kill that sailor, otherwise he is going to turn my baby against me.
are you going to provide me with an opportunity to prove my love to my girl? or are you gonna save yourself some trouble and step up like a gentleman and apologize to her?
do not fuck with me, man. you look like a clown in that stupid jacket.
this is a snakeskin jacket, and for me it is a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom.
...asshole.
come here.
I am sorry to do this to ya here in front of a crowd, but i want ya to stand up and make a nice apology to my girl.
I am sorry.
hell, you just rubbed up against the wrong girl is all.
that is good... now go get yourself a beer.  you fellas have alotta the same power elvis had... you all know this one?
what you want to watch this trash for? am not one of those people have a real thought in their brain.
that so?  you want to tell me what, if any, real thoughts you had lately?
what you have to get personal about so quick? all i mean is you could possibly read a book.
what is that honey?
we did not have no tv up at pee dee, baby, you know?
I am sorry, sweetie. i forget some moments where all you been the last two years.
twenty-three months, eighteen days is all. do not need to make more'n it was.  this couple's goin' on a date to hawaii. the girl chose him over the other two guys.
do not the reject guys get anythin'?
gift certificates to kentucky fried chicken.
that do not seem fair.
hell, why should the datin' game be different from real life? at least them boys is going to get somethin' to eat.
sailor?
yeah?
would not it be fabulous if we somehow stayed in love for the rest of our lives?
you think of the weirdest damn things to say sometimes, peanut. am not we been doin' a pretty fair job this far?
oh, you know exactly what i mean, honey? it would make the future so simple and nice.
at pee dee, all you think about is the future, you know? gettin' out? and what you will do and what you will think about when you are on the outside again.
i just think about things as they come up. i never been much of a planner.
it am not altogether terrible just to let things go along sometimes. lula, i done a few things in my life i am not too proud of, but I will tell ya from now on i am not going to do nothin' for no good reason. all i know for sure is there is more'n a few bad ideas runnin' around loose out there.
musta been a lesson tellin' ya it was the wrong time... what did you do, your mama find out?
she got me an abortion...
...i hope you appreciate my spendin' six hundred dollars, not countin' what it cost us to get here and back... this man's the best damn abortionist in the south.
you tell the boy who knocked you up?
it was my cousin, dell, done it? his folks used to visit with us summers.
what happened to him?
oh, nothin'. i never let on to mama about dell bein' the one. i just flat refused to tell her who the daddy was? i did not tell dell, neither. he was back home in chattanooga by then, anyhow, and i did not see the point. somethin' terrible happened to him, though. six months ago.
what is that, peanut?
dell disappeared. dell was learnin' a hard lesson. what i learned from observin' dell is i think people who are frightened want to disappear. he would startin' behavin' weird? like comin' up to people every fifteen minutes and askin' how they were doin'?
actin' funny how?
well, like mama told me, aunt rootie, dell's mama? she found cockroaches in dell's underwear.
one time, aunt rootie caught dell puttin' one big cockroach on his anus?
hell, peanut...
one time - real late - like about two thirty a.m.? she found dell up in the black of night all dressed and makin' sandwiches in the kitchen.
...are followin' him around.
prob'ly the rain boys from outer space.
it am not so funny now, though. december before christmas? dell disappeared again and aunt rootie hired a private eye to find him. he was missin' for almost a month before he wandered back in the house on mornin' dressed in some filthy santa claus suit.
the private eye cost aunt rootie over a thousand dollars? then a little while later dell ran off a third time to some place he said would "give him peace of mind." nobody's seen him since.
sound like old dell's more'n just a little confused, peanut... too bad he could not visit that old wizard of oz and get some good advice.
too bad we all can't, baby... one thing about dell?
what is that?
when he was about seventeen, he startin' losin' his hair.
so?
he is twenty-four now? a year older than you? and must be 'bout bald.
there is worse things that can happen to a man, honey.
yeah, i suppose. but you know somethin' baby, hair does make a difference.
let's go dancin', peanut. I am ready.
we got to be careful, honey, my mama's going to have johnnie farragut on us like a duck on a june bug, and he is one clever detective? you know how clever? he once told me that he could find an honest man in washington. my toenails got to dry first anyways, sailor.
one thing puzzles my mind, sugar... you are twenty years old - are not you ever curious why your mama has this fixation on keepin' us apart? puttin' a detective on us. I will tell ya lula... well... it is more'n me killin' bob ray lemon...
maybe my mama cares for me just a little too much...
yeah, maybe...
hey, sailor boy, you wanna fuck lula's mama?...
no.
well, she wants to fuck you.
no... i just wanted to kiss you good- bye... you know too much 'bout little lula's mom...
whattya mean?
well, johnnie told me you used to drive for clyde and santos...
so?
so maybe one night you got a little too close to the fire... and you are going to get burned, baby... and besides that, you are shit... d'you think I would let my little girl go with shit like you?... why, you belong right here in one of these toilets.
you are going to have to kill me to keep me away from lula.
oh, do not worry 'bout that...
it is a prob'lm i do not think's going to go away too soon though... peanut, I am thinkin' of breakin' parole and takin' you out to sunny california.
sailor!
you up for that?
I would got to the far end of the world for you, baby... you know i would.
those toenails dry yet? we got some dancin' to do.
...that's an awful long way to go, just to get some pussy.
yeah, i had my first taste on that trip to juarez. at that age you still got a lot of energy.
you still got plenty energy for me, baby.
sorry, baby... when is the first time you done it with a girl who was not hookin'?
maybe two, three months after juarez. i was visitin' my cousin, junior train, in savannah, and we were at some kid's house whose parents were out of town. a girl comes up to me that was real tall, taller than me.
she looked right at me and run her tongue over her lips and put her hand on my arm - told me her name was irma.
what did you say to her?
told her my name. then she said somethin' like, 'it's so noisy down here. why do not we go upstairs so we can hear ourselves?' she turned around and led the way. i knew i had an important lesson to learn that day.
when she got almost to the top step i stuck my hand between her legs from behind.
oh, baby. what a bad boy you are!
that is just what she said. i had a boner with a capital "o." i went to kiss her but she broke off laughin' and ran down the hallway. i found her lyin' on a bed in a room filled with assault weapons and penthouse magazines. she was a wild chick. she was wearin' bright orange pants with kind of spanish lookin' lacy black stripes down the sides. you know, them kind that does not go all the way down your leg?
you mean like pedal pushers?
i guess.
she just rolled over onto her stomach and stuck her ass up in the air. i slid my hand between her legs and she closed her thighs on it.
you are excitin' me, honey. what did she do?
her face was half-pushed into the pillow, and she looked back over her shoulder at me and said, 'i will not suck you. do not ask me to suck you.'
poor baby. she do not know what she missed. what color hair she have?
sorta brown, blonde, i guess. but dig this, sweetie. then she turns over, peels off them orange pants, and spreads her legs real wide and says to me...
I will drop mama a postcard from somewhere. i mean, i do not want her to worry no more'n necessary.
what do you mean by necessary? she is prob'ly already called the cops, my parole officer, her p.i. boyfriend johnnie farragut.
i suppose so. she knew i was bound to see you soon as you was sprung, but i do not figure she counted on us takin' off together like this... i guess this means you are breakin' parole, then?
you guess? my parole was broke two hundred miles back when we burnt portagee county.
what will it be like in california, sailor, do you think? i hear it do not rain much there.
you got about six more big states to go before we find out.
we got through two states already.
that do not smell like a more.
it ain't. it is part of the lessons of life. i picked me up a pack of vantages before we left the cape?
they sure do stink.
yeah, i guess, but - and here's the lesson part - they am not supposed to be so bad for you.
you am not going to begin worryin' about what is bad for you at this hour, are you, sugar? i mean, here you are crossin' state lines with a a-number one certified murderer.
manslaughterer, honey, not murderer. do not exaggerate.
okay, manslaughterer who is broke his parole and got in mind nothin' but immoral purposes far's you are concerned.
thank the lord. well, you am not let me down yet, sailor. that is more'n i can say for the rest of the world?
life is a bitch and then you marry one.
what kinda trash talk is that?
what it says on the bumper sticker up front. on that pickup.
that is disgustin'. those kinda sentiments should not be allowed out in public. is this biloxi yet?
almost. i figure we should find us a place to stay and then go eat.
got anyplace special in mind?
we oughta stay somewhere outta the way. not in no holidays or ramadas or motel six. if johnnie farragut's on our trail he will check those first.
how about that one? the host of the old south hotel.
looks more like the ghost of the old south, but we will try her.
i h-a-t-e hotel bedspreads. they do not hardly never get washed, and i do not like the idea of lyin' on other people's dirt.
come look at this.
what is that, honey?
there am not no water in the swimmin' pool. just a dead tree fell in, prob'ly from bein' struck by lightnin'.
it is huge. this musta been a grand old place at one time.
let's get fed, sweetheart. the light's fadin' fast.
m-i-ss-i-ss-i-pp-i... you can almost hear that jazz blowin' up from the big n.o.
lula... i learned somethin' interestin' today on a science show i heard on the radio... how leeches is comin' back into style.
say what? honestly, sugar, you can talk more shit sometimes?
got you a pack of mores again, huh?
yeah, it is a real problem for me, sailor, you know? when i went in that drugstore by the restaurant in biloxi? i saw 'em by the register and the girl throw 'em in. I am not big on resistin'. so what about a leech?
heard on the radio how doctors is usin' leeches again, just in old times. you know, when even barbers used 'em?
i got one on me at lake lanier. lifeguard poured salt on it and it dropped off. felt awful. he was a cute boy, though, so it was almost worth it.
yeah, well listen to this... radio said back in the 1920s a i-talian doctor figured out that if, say, a fella got his nose cut off or bit off in, say, a barfight or somethin', they would sew one of his forearms to his nose for a few weeks... then put leeches on it.
sailor? you expect me to believe a man'd be goin' around with a arm sewed to his nose?
how they used to do it. course they got more sophisticated ways now. radio said the chinese, i think it is, figured a better idea is by insertin' a balloon in the forehead and lettin' it hang down on the nose.
sailor ripley! you stop! you are makin' this shit up and i am not going to sit for it!
honest, lula. i prob'ly am not precisely got all the facts straight, but it is about what they said.
honey, we are goin' to bed now and it is time to change the subject.
we are about dry bones, sweetheart. we do not wanna have to push this "bird" into new orleans.
we sure don't, honey...  get me a mounds?
sorry, gentlemen. I am 'most finished on my shoppin' here.
this be it?
you all take american express?
yessir.
then lemme throw in a couple more things.
I would just soon have a paper bag rather than a plastic one, if it is same to you.
we do not have no paper bags.
alright... by all means. make yourselves at home.
muchas gracias.
you are from new orleans, senor farragut?
johnnie, please. nope. charlotte, north carolina. here on business.
mr. san pedro sula is from honduras.
do you know honduras, johnny?
only that it is supposed to be a pretty poor sight since the hurricane came through last year.
yes, that is so. but there is not much to destroy.
no big buildings like in new orleans.
whattaya do there?
oh, many things...
mr. san pedro sula's got an appliance shop.
but i am also with the government.
in what capacity?
in many capacities.
general osvaldo tamarindo y ramirez. telefono 666.
he is my sponsor. the general is the head of the secret police of honduras.
that is my permiso.
mr. san pedro sula's permit to kill.
only if necessary, of course, and only in my own country.
mr. san pedro sula's authorized to carry a .45.
united states marine issue, before they made the unfortunate switch to the less dependable nine millimeters. i have it here, in my briefcase.
why are you in new orleans? if you do not mind my askin'.
certainly not. we are here only briefly, in fact, until this evening, when we fly to austin, texas to visit a friend of mine who is an agent for the cia.
he wants to take mr. san pedro sula and me bass fishing.
we are in the same businesses and also we are fishermen.
the same to you. if you are in honduras, come to the bay islands and visit us. the hondurans are great friends of the american people. but i have a joke for you before i go. if a liberal, a socialist, and a communist all jumped off the roof of the empire state building at the same time, which one of them would hit the ground first?
i could not say, which one?
i love it when your eyes get wild, honey. they light up all blue almost and little white parachutes pop out of 'em. oh, sailor you are so aware of what goes on with me? i mean, you pay attention. and i swear, you got the sweetest cock. sometimes it is like it is talkin' to me when you are inside? like it is got a voice all it is own. you get right on me.
you really are dangerously cute, honey. i gotta admit it.
my name's george kovich. bet you have heard of me.
do not know that i have... should i know about you for anythin' in particular?
was in all the papers three years ago. I am seventy-six, was only seventy- three then. had a business in buffalo, new york, called rats with wings. killed pigeons for anyone who wanted 'em killed.
if your neighbors did not mind, how did you get put out of business?
woman drivin' down the street spotted me with on a roof with my rifle. she called the police and they came over and arrested me. thought i was a sniper! boys at the vfw loved that one. cops did not understand about the pigeons, the damage they do to personal property. i used to complain to the city but they never lifted a finger. i was going to put out poison, but i was afraid somebody is cat would eat it. hell, i had six cats myself. so i used the .22 because it did not make much noise and the ammo was cheap.
what happened on the charges?
guilty on a reduced charge. hundred dollar fine and ordered to desist. pigeons carry diseases and muss up the place. you seen it. plain filth.
what lesson do get outta that story, lula?
it is just another case, sailor.
what is that, peanut?
one person thinks he is doin' somethin' good and ever'body else gets upset about it.
huh?
ever imagine what it would be like to get eaten alive by a wild beast? sometimes i think it would be the biggest thrill?
my god,  it better be, darlin', cause it would be the last... what time is it?
shhhhh... it is four o'clock... that woman's laugh the other day had somethin' to do with this feelin'?... like bein' ripped apart by a gorilla, maybe... grabbed sudden and pulled apart real quick by a real powerful one.
lula, sometimes i gotta admit, you come up with some weird thoughts...
anythin' interestin' in the world come out of somebody is weird thoughts, sailor. you tell me sailor, who could come up with shit like we are seein' these days?
you got me, peanut.
you certain?
i am not never met anyone come close to you, sugar.
recall the time we was sittin' one night behind the confederate soldier? leanin' against it. and you took your hand and put it on your heart and you said, 'you feel it beatin' in there, lula?... get used to it, 'cause it belongs to you now.' d'you recall that?
i do.
i was hopin' you would. i know that night by heart. sometimes, honey? i think it is the best night of my life.
i really do think it is the best night of my life.
we did not do nothin' special i can remember. just talked, is all.
talkin's good. long as you got the other? I am a big believer in talkin', case you am not noticed.
too bad they do not give an award for talkin'... you would win first prize. especially with those tits.
you think so, baby? does my talkin' bother you, honey?
no, i like gettin' up around four a.m. and talkin' bout wild animals... though you woke me up this time in the middle of a dream. i kinda wish i did not remember it. up at pee dee, i could not remember any of my dreams.
what was this one?
it was not no fun, lula. the wind was blowin' super-hard and i was not dressed warm. only instead of freezin', i was sweatin' strong.
the water was rollin' off me. and i was dirty, too, like i had not had no bath in a long time, so the sweat was black almost.
boy, sweetie, this is weird, okay.
i know. i kept walkin', i headed for your house, only it was not your house, really. you let me in only you were not real pleased to see me. you kept askin', 'why'd you come to see me now? why now?' like it would been a long time since we would seen each other.
oh, baby, what an idea. I would always be happy to see you, no matter what.
i know, peanut. but it was not all like you were so unhappy i was there, just you were upset. my bein' there was upsettin' to you. you had some kids there, little kids, and i guess you would got married and your husband was comin' home any minute.
sometimes dreams just do not mean nothin'... stuff comes into your mind and you do not have no control over, you know? anyways, dreams am not no odder than real life. sometimes not by half.
well, i am not upset about it, darlin'. just give me an odd feelin' there a minute, is all.
hey!!!... johnnie farragut. how are you, my man.
real good, chet... it is been awhile.
everythin's relative. where is that marietta pace fortune? you two did not split up, i hope.
no... she is fine. back home.
what will it be? the regular? black label?
set one up.
so who you out sleuthin' for now?... can i help ya?
actually, I am lookin' for marietta's daughter, lula. her and 'er beau took off the other day. marietta's real upset about it.
hell, that rings a bell. someone told me somebody lookin' like her was at the nothin' fancy yesterday.
sounds right... I will check it out.
you hitched yet?
no sir...
it is none of my business, but when are you and marietta going to tie the knot? i always wondered why you never did.
not for lack of love, i can tell ya that.
that is what i mean... always looked like you was just knocked out in love... was real nice to see.
I will tell ya though, it is comin' up to the time when marietta and me might just set up house together and settle down... i think that time's comin' up right soon. but like you said, everythin's relative.
let's get outta here... i suddenly got a funny feelin' about this place. feelin' all that voodoo...
gotta hex from a voodoo?
who do?
you do.
oh my god... it is johnnie... duck down!... get goin'!
where?
never mind where... get outta here... i mean it, sailor.
I am goin'.
you think he saw us?
who knows, baby?
he was sittin' there havin' a beignet at the cafe du monde. do you think he saw us?
lula, darlin'... makes no difference anyway... we are outta here.
sure you wanna do this? might be a way they could track us.
he is just a regular guy't needs help, honey. look at him.
you do not feel you was a little hard on the guy, honey?
i know you are thinkin' that i got more'n some of my mama in me? well, i could not help it. sailor, i really couldn't. I am sorry for that guy, but when he pulled that drippin' hunk of awful-smellin' meat out of his pocket? i near barfed. and them poor diseased puppies!
just part of life on the road, peanut.
do me a favor, sailor? do not pick up no more hitchers, okay?
no, marietta, i have not found 'em.
this is the kinda mistake can take a hindu's lifetime to unfix... you better get a move on, johnnie, before that boy got her holdin' down a memphis streetcorner and shootin' dope up her arms.
really, marietta, you got more scenarios swimmin' around in your brain than carter got pills. try to take it easy. go over to myrtle beach for a few days.
I am stayin' right here by the phone until you find lula, then I am comin' to get her. you call soon's you got somethin', even if it is three in the a.m.
i will, marietta. goodbye now.
i thought you two were in austin, texas. or takes-us, as they say in these parts.
we were. now mr. san pedro sula and i are on our way back to utila, in the morning.
would you like to enjoy a martini with us?
why not? how was the fishin'?
i think they are too serious, these american fishermen. in honduras, we are not so concerned with the method.
so, it is back to the islands.
yes. mr. san pedro sula spoke yesterday to his son, archibald leach san pedro sula, who is named after cary grant, and he told them there was a shooting.
teddy roosevelt, one of the local shrimp boat captains is in jail now. these people are friends of mine, so i must return and find out what happened.
this island of yours sounds like a kind of unpredictable place.
it has its moments of uncertainty.
but how are you finding new orleans, senor farragut?
call me johnnie... n.o. has always been a good town to sit around in.
hasta siempre.
hasta siempre.
do you know how it came about that copper wire was invented in scotland?
how is that?
gotta admit, you guys are -  two in four dozen.
the real joke is we never went fishing, but we are still fishing.
i would not mind a little night life. how about you?
hard to tell what is shakin' in a place like this, honey. you do not want to be walkin' in the wrong door.
maybe there is a place we could hear some music. i feel like dancin'. we could ask someone.
gas?
got enough, thanks. we are lookin' for a place has some music, where we can maybe do some dancin' - get somethin' to eat, too. anything like that around here?
mostly black though in that boogie place.
what is the name of it?
club zanzibar.
you say it is straight ahead a mile?
about. where lafitte crosses over galvez highway. state road 86.
thanks.
you ready for this?
we will find out in a hurry.
I will be damned if I am leavin'. that band is too good?
uh huh.
you notice that woman when we come in? the white woman sittin' by herself?
yeah.
well, she am not talked to nobody and am not nobody spoke to her that i could tell. what you make of that?
honey, we bein' strangers here and all, this is the kinda place we do not want to make nothin' of nothin'.
you think she is pretty?
what is wrong, sweetheart? somethin' botherin' you?
mama. i been thinkin' about her. she is prob'ly worried to death by now.
more'n likely.
i want to call her and tell her I am okay. that we are okay.
i am not so sure it is a great idea, but that is up to you. just do not tell her where we are.
pardon me? you all got a phone here i can use?
I am fine, mama. i just wanted to tell you not to worry.
why, how could i not worry? not knowin' what is happenin' to you or where you are? are you with that boy?
if you mean sailor, mama, yes i am.
are you comin' back here soon, lula? i need you here.
need me for what, mama? I am perfectly fine, and safe, too.
you in a dance hall or somethin'? i can hear music behind you.
just a place.
really, lula, this am not right!
right?! mama, was it right for you to sic johnnie farragut on us? how could you do that?
did you run into johnnie in new orleans? lula, are you in new orleans?
no, mama, I am in mexico, and we are about to get on an airplane to argentina!
argentina! lula, you are outta your mind. now you just tell me where you are and I will come for you. i will not say nothin' to the police about sailor, i promise. he can do what he wants, i do not care.
mama, I am hangin' up this phone now.
no, baby, don't! can i send you somethin'? you runnin' low on money? I will wire you some money if you tell me where you are.
i am not that dumb, mama. sailor and i been on a crime spree? knockin' off convenience stores all across the south? am not you read about it?
lula? i love you, baby. i just want you to be all right.
i am all right, mama. that is why i called, to let you know. i got to go.
call me again soon? I will be waitin' by the phone.
do not be crazy, mama. take care of yourself.
i was just wastin' time, peanut, till you come back.
it is me who is wastin' time, sailor, bein' with you.
honey, I am sorry. it was not nothin'. come on and get up and we will take off.
leave me be for a minute? mama gets all insane and then i see you practicin' your individuality and personal freedom with some oil-town tramp. how you figure I am going to feel?
told you not to call your mama.
i got some news, marietta. lula and sailor been here. they checked out of the hotel brazil on frechman street yesterday.
listen, johnnie, lula just called me. she knew you were in n.o., so they left the city.
did she tell you where she was callin' from?
no, but my guess is they are headed west, so prob'ly texas. their money must be runnin' low. i do not think sailor had much to begin with, if any, and lula took the six hundred she had saved in the cherokee thrift.
how did she sound? was she doin' okay?
could she be doin' okay, johnnie? she is tryin' to prove somethin' to me, that is all. lula am not doin' no more'n showin' off, defyin' me...  johnnie, I have done somethin' bad...
what?
i will not tell you over the phone. I am comin' to n.o. and I will tell you then.
marietta, i was just gonna leave and see if i could pick up their trail.
no, you wait right there for me... I will be on the piedmont flight tomorrow at seven. meet me at the airport.
I will meet you, marietta, if that is what you want, but I am against it.
seven tomorrow evenin'. we can eat at galatoire's. fix it.
how much we got left, honey?
under a hundred.
you want to stick around here, sailor? see if we can get some work?
not in houston. we would be better off in some place more out of the way.
you want me to drive for a stretch? give you a chance to rest.
that would be good, lula.
come in, montgomery, alabama.
artie? that you, artie?
yes, ma'am. what is on your almost- perfect mind this evening?
how ya feelin', artie? i heard you was not doin' too well recent.
I am fine, thank you. i had a cardiac infarction but I am on a new diet and exercising regularly. I have never felt better.
well, that is so good to hear, artie. you know some of us depend on you down this way. you are so entertainin' and you get so many interestin' guests.
thank you. it is listeners such as yourself who made me want to get up out of that hospital bed and back into the studio as fast as i could.
...live in exchange for sexual favors. police said they have identified and questioned at least four girls, all asians twelve to fifteen years old, who have been living in the north houston warehouse with a vietnamese pimp since february. the girls are being treated as victims, said police sergeant amos milburn. 'these are really just children,' he said, 'but they have been exposed to a lot already.
I will bet.
in international news, india plans to release crocodiles in the ganges, the holy hindu river in which millions of people bathe annually, to scavenge for corpses, authorities said.
the reptiles were supposed to be of a docile species, said a senior government official, but it seems the breeders bungled and reared attack crocodiles.
damn!
the indian official who supplied this information did so only on condition of anonymity. the uttar pradesh state authorities last october released five hundred turtles...
in the ganges near varanasi to try and reduce human pollution and now plan to put in the crocodiles to devour floatin' corpses dumped by hindus too poor to pay for cremation.
holy shit!! it is the night of the livin' fuckin' dead!!!!
what is that, peanut?
i can not take no more of this radio...  i am not never heard so much concentrated weirdness in my life, sailor ripley, you find me some dancin' music right this minute... i mean it!!
the world's gettin' worse, i think, sailor. and it do not sound like there is much we can do about it, neither.
this am not news, sweetheart. i hate to tell ya.
i got your message... but you went right to johnnie, did not you?... i can not trust you, bitch - not for one minute... naughty girl... sailor and lula are headed west, and guess what? there is no turning back. I am in a killing mood.
no...
my very best to johnnie... bless his soul.
who was that?... who know's your here?
I will be damned if that was not a wrong number?
what is it, johnnie?
just some guys i met here... i keep seein' 'em...  now tell me...
johnnie, i can not tell you, honey. is there anyway we can get on the road tonight? we have got to find them kids.
somethin' was upsettin' you bad last night, and you wanted to tell me and i figured you wanted to tell me so's i could help...
i did, honey, but that was last night... let's just find those two kids before it is too late.
honey, i have to ask you this... is santos involved in any of this?
hell no, baby... i wouldn'ta done that without tellin' you.
that bastard pucinski...
who?... uncle pooch?...
yeah... the one that introduced santos to you and clyde.
johnnie... that is the past... we got to get on to our future, sugar!
all i have to do is grab my suitcase, and I am ready. you are lucky cause i happen to love night drivin'.
let's head for texas and see if we can pick up the trail.
did i tell ya it is great to see ya again?
this 'bout the fifth time?
I will pack my things and meet you downstairs.
and to think what coulda happened in that king-sized bed tonight...
you will not of missed much.
see ya downstairs.
I am afraid his car is gone, mrs. fortune.
i do not understand this... i do not understand this one bit. he was supposed to meet me right her in this lobby. somethin' bad has happened - i jus know it.
perhaps we should call a local law enforcement officer.
hell no!!! that is the last thing we need... a buncha cops runnin' around.
oh god! what does that mean?
I am sure i would not know, ma'am... and buffalo hunting too... hmmmmm?
and jus when my baby's out on some texas road with a killer.
santos... where is j-j-johnnie?
shhhhhh...  thank you, gentlemen... I will look after her now...
santos... what is happenin' here?
hey... stop the nervous cry-baby routine... you are my girl now... santos is going to wipe away those tears and make you happy... come on, let's get outta here.
where we goin'?
got word the kids are moving through texas... i think an ending is being arranged there... come on, lemme see a smile.
please santos... where is johnnie?
i forgot to show you this. the gentlemen that gave this to me said you would recognize it. said he wanted it would be 'bout the last thing you ever saw in this life.
oh god... oh god... santos... oh god marietta... are you in on this?... oh god!!!
sure is a big deal round here... alamo road, alamo street, alamo square, alamo buildin', alamo alamo. they am not forgettin' about it in a hurry. that is the thing 'bout memory? some things you wish you could forget... what is troublin' you, sugar?
you know, lula, i never told you what all i was doin' before i met you.
i just figured you was out bein' mr. cool...
not exactly, sugar... one reason we are in all the trouble we are in right now is cause of what i was doin'... i tried to tell you this before...
you are scarin' me, baby.
well, there is a good side as well as a bad side to it... the good side is i knew your daddy, and i thought clyde was a good old guy...
you knew my daddy?
yes i did... i sure did... the bad side of it is i did some drivin' for a man named marcello santos...
oh shit...
i quit workin' for 'im, but just before i did, i ended up one night at a house... i do not know what it is they all think i saw that night, but i was just sittin' out in the car till the whole place went up in flames.
god, sailor... that is the night my daddy died.
i know, sugar... but while the place was burnin'... before santos came out - i pitched some rocks at the second floor windows case anyone was upstairs sleepin'... afterwards... when i met you, i always liked to think i mighta saved your life.
that is some big secret you been carryin', sailor.
we all got a secret side, baby. hope you do not think i been lyin' to you 'bout other things, sugar.
how did you know my daddy?
met him through santos... clyde - your daddy - had some sorta business deal with santos.
lula, you there?
yeah, I am here.
you upset with me?
no, sailor darlin'. just shockin' sometimes when things are not the way you thought they were... i been carryin' a secret too...
that night in the fire while my daddy was dyin'... i saw mama up in her room with santos...
...they was laughin' arm in arm like animals.
i did not want to say it... but i had a feelin' santos was up to somethin' with your mama...
my mama...  so sailor, our histories have been somewhat intertwined.
they have, sugar.
i take that as a sign that we were destined by fate to be together.
it is a comfortin' idea.
well, we are really out in the middle of it now, am not we?
there is worse places, honey.
if you say so.
trust me on it.
i do trust you, sailor. like i am not never trusted nobody before.
we will be alright, peanut, long as we have got room to move.
what is that?
i do not know... looks like clothes.
oh god, sailor.
one bad car accident...
sailor!!!
sailor, what are we gonna do?
i do not know, honey, but we got to help that girl - get her to a town and hope no one catches on i broke parole.
let's get ahold a' her quick.
you think she is going to make it?
do not know, but she is going to bleed all over our car, I will tell ya that...  hey... hello... girl... you got to come with us, honey.
i can not take this, sailor. she is dyin' right in front of our eyes...
I am afraid she is, baby.
she died right in front of me. why did she have to go and do that, sailor?
let's get outta here, honey.
well, it am not exactly emerald city...
not quite as bad as the weather though... it must be a hundred and ten and it am not even noon yet.
not bad for eleven dollars a day.
no radio or tv...
and no ac.
fan works.
now what?
let's get a sandwich and find out about some work.
sailor?
yeah?
this am not exactly my most thrillin' notion of startin' a new life.
I am going to stay here in this room, sailor. i do not feel so good? this heat makes me tired.
okay, honey, I will see you later.
that you, sail, honey?
the only one.
you find any work?
maybe. met a guy named red, owns a garage, could have some work in about a week. met a few hard luck boys who is stayin' here. what is that smell?
i barfed. tried to make it to the bathroom... turned out it was the wrong door anyways... i sorta got it cleaned up.
you sick?
a little, i think... darlin'?
yeah?
come sit by me.
I am from all over.
you was in the marines, huh?
what is cao ben?
how old are you?
twenty.
darlin', i still am not feelin' so well. I am goin' to bed.
I will come along.
anything i can do for you?
no, i do not think so, sail. i just need to lie down.
sailor? you know what?
i know you am not particularly pleased bein' here.
not that. look at what i wrote down cause i can not say it.
it is okay by me, peanut.
well, nothin' personal, but i am not sure it is okay by me.
really, sailor, it am not nothin' against you. i love you.
love you, too.
i know. just I am sorta uncomfortable about the way some things is goin', and this do not help soothe me.
i know this am not easy, lula, but i am not going to let things get no worse, i promise.
hey, pretty woman... sailor here?
no, he is out changin' the oil in the car.
man, i gotta take a piss bad... can i use your head there?
well... yeah - okay.
i do not mean your head head - I am not going to piss on your head - your hair an' all... just piss in the toilet. you all take a listen - here a deep sound comin' down from bobby peru.
oh... look at this... what do you want, snakeskin?
just passin' through on my way to who knows where...
sure... i figured I would see you sometime...
hopin' you could tell me if there is a contract out on me. i really need to know.
by who?
i think santos or marietta fortune.
heard you was goin' out with that bitch's daughter.
you heard right.
you really are one dumb asshole.
life is unpredictable.
does that girlfriend of yours know that her mama and santos killed her daddy?  does she know her own daddy was one of the biggest drug dealers around - till he started snortin' the shit himself?...  does she know you was around that night her daddy was set fire to?
i did not see nothin'...
yeah... but i did... and i told you all about it...
is there a contract?... we made a deal once that we would tip each other off if we ever heard.
i know... i remember.
well?...
i am not heard of nothin'.
thanks...
hey... you got to smell in this room of puke... you been pukin' in here, little girl? huh?... you sick?... pregnant?
you used the toilet, now you can go - what i do around here am not any of your business, that is for sure.
you know, i really do like a woman with tits like yours that talks tough and acts like she can fuck like a bunny... can you fuck like that?... you like it like a bunny?... huh?... cause baby, I will fuck you like a real good like a big old jack-rabbit bunny... jump all around in that hole... bobby peru does not come up for air.
get out.
am i scarin' ya?... your pussy wet?... come on... is it?...  hey, do not jump back so slow... i thought you was a bunny... bunny jump fast - you jump back slow... mean somethin', do not it?... means somethin' to me... means you want bobby peru... you want bobby peru to fuck you hard baby - open you up like a christmas present.
bobby peru grab you now... hold you tight... feel everythin' in you now... stay quiet... say "fuck me" and then I will leave.
no way... get out!!!
say it!... I will tear your fuckin' heart out, girl... say "fuck me" soft - then I will leave. say "fuck me"... whisper it... then I will leave... say it... say it - say it - say it...
whisper it... whisper "fuck me"... whisper... whisper... whisper... whisper...
fuck me.
someday honey, i will... but i have to be goin' now... conta i no joras...
need a hand?
thanks, bobby, 'bout done.
how 'bout a beer?
that would be fine, bobby.
let's go by rosarita's. you been there yet?
no, have not heard of it.
thought maybe sparky and buddy'd taken ya. come on, I will drive.
this your car?
hell, no, belongs to my girl's sister. the sister's been over to new orleans, lets us have it while she is gone. where is that pretty little lady of yours today?
restin' in our room. she am not been feelin' well.
sorry to hear it.
new orleans, huh?... we was just there.
thought you said this was a private club. how come I am allowed in without bein' a member?
you black?
no.
you an indian?
no.
then you are a member... three or four millionaires in here right now.
they look like a bunch of good old boys to me. i guess it is oil money, huh?
oil, gas, cattle, farmin'. am not nobody shows off around here. iguana county's one of the richest in texas.
wouldn'ta guessed it, that is sure.
ready for another?
why not?
i been studyin' a situation over in lobo, take two men to handle it.
what is that?
feed store keeps up to five k in their safe. need me a good boy for back-up. even split. you interested?
no... i do not think so, man.
be easy, sailor. there is two employees. i take one in the back to open the safe, you keep the other'n covered... you am not plannin' on raisin' a fam'ly in big tuna, are ya?
whattaya mean family?
well... i mean like lula bein' in a family way.
lula tell you she is pregnant?
couple grand or more'd give you two a leg up. get you to the west coast, mexico, most anyplace, with a few dollars in your jeans. i got it figured good, sailor.
when did you talk to lula?
talked to her this afternoon... while you was out.
she really say she was pregnant?
just took a guess is all... you in or out on this deal?
i am not fuckin' sure, bobby.
do not think about it too long.  you had enough?
have now.
come on outside, i got somethin' to show ya.
how much money you have between the two a'ya right now?...
forty bucks...
this is easy money, pardner... no ones going to get hurt in this thing... and i do not think you can afford not to take it... I will be bringin' the eldo 'round the front of the motel at ten tomorrow mornin'... if you am not a pussy - you will be there.
i do not particularly care for that kind of talk, bobby.
hey... i never said you was a pussy... always figured you had the big old round balls for this kind'a thing... sure would set you and that pretty little girl up good.
yeah... yeah... i guess so... that kind'a money'd get us a long way down that yellow brick road...
...but damn man... this better go smooth.
like takin' candy from a fuckin' baby...
you been drinkin', huh?
few beers is all. feelin' any better?
can not tell yet. where did you go?
that smell's still fillin' this room good.
buddy and sparky come by earlier.
and bobby too, i hear...
yeah... he was lookin' for you.
you talk to 'im some?...
some... sparky said red's promised to have him and buddy out of here by the weekend.
oughta make 'em happy.
so where did you say you was?
went with bobby.
sail?
uh-huh?
let's leave here.
we are goin' to, lula, real soon.
i mean tomorrow.
we got about forty bucks, sweetheart. that would get us to el paso.
rather be in el paso than big tuna.
who says I am smart? you up to somethin' with bobby peru, sailor?
what could i be up to, lula?
he is a stone fuckin' criminal, honey, and you ain't.
i killed bob ray lemon, did not i?
that was a accident. i bet both our asses bobby peru done murdered all kinds of people, and meant it, too.
that was in vietnam.
he is the kind liked it.
lula, i got to get some sleep.
buddy told me about that thing at cao ben?
what?
was a massacre. soldiers there murdered old folks, women and babies, and dumped 'em in a trench. bobby peru prob'ly killed the most.
lula, he mighta did, i do not know. but it do not matter now. lotta guys go outta control in a war and it am not their fault.
that man's a black angel, sailor. you hook up with him, you will regret it. if you live to.
thanks, darlin', i know you got my best interest in mind, and i 'preciate it sincerely. i love you, but i got to sleep now.
nice of you to drop by.
told ya i would. you still riled?
you still screwing sixteen-year-olds in the ass?
am not never had no girl pull a blade on me.
wish I would fuckin' cut you up good.
you heard from reggie?
juana called. they are stayin' another week.
the cobra's waitin' to strike, chica.
that guy sailor came around this afternoon... asked me if there was a contract out on 'im.
no shit?!?! you know him?
used to.
what did you say?
no, of course.
that is right... could have a bad accident, though... before... durin'... or after a hold-up...
what is going to happen when he sees me drivin' the car tomorrow?
maybe he will get a little nervous, but who gives a shit?
what is she doin' here?
she is my girl... she is drivin'... that bother you?
why should it?
that is right... take one of these.
what is it?
panty hose. work better'n stockin's. pull one of the legs down over your face and let the other leg trail behind your head. you get the pistol.  remember, soon as we get inside, you keep that bad boy up where those hicks can see it. once they notice the ithaca and the smith, they will know we am not foolin' with 'em.
you are comin' home, precious. santos' going to drive us to the san antonio airport.
mama, sailor's in deep trouble here. i just can not leave him.
I am goin', mama. no way i can not go.
you am not takin' pace, though.
course i am, mama.
what time's sailor's train get in?
six.
got any plans?
figure we will go have supper someplace. maybe get some barbecue out by stateline. sailor always liked that havana brown's pig pickin'.
well, you be careful with that boy, lula.
sailor am not a boy no more, mama.
do not mean him. it is pace concerns me.
really, mama, i gotta go.
what if i asked you not to?
would not make any difference.
what if i told you not to?
mama... if you get in the way of me and sailor's happiness, I will fuckin' pull your arms out by the roots.
do not give me no trouble now, pace, please. this am not the easiest day in a long time. and what do you mean how are we going to know what your daddy looks like? you seen his photo.
how will he know what we look like? he seen our photo?
damn it, child! now look what you made me do.
what i made you do, mama?
nothin', honey.  mama's just actin' strange.
you am not actin', mama.
why, pace roscoe ripley, am not you got one cute mouth tonight?
i still am not sure what my daddy looks like.
like you, sweetheart. you and your daddy got the same mouth, eyes, ears, and nose. only difference is your color hair is like mine.
my daddy am not never killed nobody, has he, mama?
course he am not never killed nobody. why did you say that, pace?
heard grandpa santos and grandmama talkin'.
and?
grandmama said how sailor murdered a man.
wrong, baby. your daddy never committed no murder. musta been you did not hear grandmama proper. he made some mistakes, is all. your daddy am not always been so lucky... we are almost at the depot, honey. sit back a minute.
why we sittin' here, mama?
thinkin' a second, baby.
I am scared, mama.
why, honey?
case daddy do not like me. what if he do not like that i do not got his color hair.
pace, your daddy'd love you even if you did not have no hair at all.
you must be my son.
shake hands with your daddy.
you hungry? pace and i am not had dinner yet.
lead the way.
I am sorry, sailor. i just can not help it. give me a minute and I will quit.
boys frightened, lula. this am not no good.
really, sail, I will be okay.
it is a mistake, honey. you two go on. I will walk back to the depot.
what are you talkin' about? that is your son in there.
he am not never known me, lula, so there am not much for him to forget. not seein' each other for six years makes it next best to simple for us, too.
how can you say that, sailor?
what makes sense, is all.
the good witch...
sailor... lula loves you.
but I am a robber and a manslaughterer and i have not had any parental guidance.
she is forgiven you of all these things... you love her... do not be afraid, sailor.
but I am wild at heart.
if you are truly wild at heart, you will fight for your dreams... do not turn away from love, sailor... do not turn away from love... do not turn away from love.
lula!!!!
sailor!!!!
