you are avoiding the question i posed to you at the beginning of the hearing, ms. grey.  three words: are mutants dangerous?
i am avoiding a question that is decidedly loaded, senator.  the wrong person behind the wheel of a car can be dangerous.
ms. grey -- you work at a school for mutants in westchester, new york.  can you tell the members of this committee what exactly you are teaching these mutants?
math.  history.  science.  english. athletics --
you would not happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to --
control, senator...  we teach them control.
this was taken by a state police officer in secaucus, new jersey.  a man in a minor altercation literally melted the car in front of him.  i do not know where you come from, ms. grey, but where i come from, you do not go melting people's cars when they cut you off.  you do it the old fashioned way -- you give 'em the finger.  but what you presume to tell this committee -
i presume nothing, i am here to tell you that in time, the mutator gene will activate in every living human being on this planet.  perhaps even your children, senator.
i can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.
i lost him.
how?
it was xavier's people.  they knew.
is that what you are looking for?
a piece.  only a piece.
is it enough?
enough for a test.
what am i doing here?
i brought you here so that you would be safe from magneto.
who?
a very powerful mutant who for some reason has taken an interest in you. I am not sure why, but until we find out, i must ask you to stay.
you... wha... who are you... where is henry?
mr. guyrich has been dead for some time senator.
you mutant bastards...
whatever you do to me... no matter what you will make me right.  every word i have spoken will be confirmed.
gosh, i hope so.
the intention of registration act -
intention?  intention, senator?  we are talking about mankind here.  his fear.  it is only a matter of time before mutants will be herded into camps.  studied for weaknesses.  and eventually wiped off the face of the earth.
what is it you intend to do to me?
let's just say, god works too slowly.
I will never understand your regard for them, charles.
and I will never understand terrorists.
i am trying to save our kind, charles. you should do the same.
not at the cost of lives, max.
the two in alaska.  just how do you people manage to be in the right place at the right time?  still tinkering with cerebro?
what do you want with him?
is that so?
still trying to make the world safe for our kind.  still trying to find a way to introduce ourselves -- definitively.
you definition of definitive was always a bit extreme for me, max. what is it like these days?
let's just say that i am out to make some radical changes.  now come on charles.  for old times sake, for your sake...  leave him to me.
if i could make you understand.  if you could just be made to see it the way i do.  the way it is going to be.
the way what is going to be?
I am going to change the world with or without you as a witness, charles.  and this one gets a front row seat.
what do you mean to do?
this checkmate goes to you.  i did not want to hurt anyone.  but you leave me no choice.
what do you mean to do?
forty-eight hours, old man.  but if you cross me, i will not feel any guilt about what i do to you.
deal.
I will find him.
alive.
anything else i can get you?
some cigars.  case of beer.
there is no smoking or drinking on the school grounds.
i will not light the cigars - how about that?
I will see what i can do -- you should get some sleep.  even with your healing ability, you are going to be hurting for a while.
what if i like the pain?
the professor said you were a solider. actually, i believe he used the word mercenary.
yeah?  well i do not like to talk about my past.
maybe, the professor could help you with that.
by reading my thoughts?
if necessary.
what if they are naughty?
scott.. i -
i do not like him being here.
what are you talking about?
you saw what happened tonight.  you think magneto will not come after him again.  you think he will not come here if necessary.  this is a school, for god's sake.
if magneto is planning to use logan for some terrible purpose it is our responsibility to do something.
why is everybody up at sunrise?
the sun is setting, logan.  you have been asleep for nineteen hours.
what did she do to me?
she borrowed your power to save her life.  when she touches someone, she absorbs their strengths -- their gifts.  in your case -- your ability to heal.  that is why she keeps her body covered.
i felt like she almost killed me.
if she held on any longer she could have.
and you think it helps calling her rogue?
inspiring -- now what am i doing here?
i wanted to talk to you.
how long have you been in alaska?
i do not remember.  is that what you wanted to ask me?
I have served with men like you before. methodical.  systematic -- naive.  you know what happens to those men in a real fight?
you know, you --
shut up.  i got no interest in you, xavier,  or your... x-men.
the point of what?
this.  this whole god damn thing.  making yourselves into some sort of "team" of super-powered freaks. teaching wayward mutants about classical literature.  for what?
the point is to step into a more evolved position of social responsibility.  to recognize that there is a world out there and that we mutants are as much a part of it as normal human beings.
what if it never happens?  what if they are so afraid of us that we become the enemy? -- this place is going to be one giant cemetery.
now that is magneto talking.
no.  that is me talking.  and you know what?  it is only been thirty-two hours and you still have no idea what this guy wants with me.
i believe he wants you for your adamantium.
where are we going?
to find rogue.
how?
the brainwaves of mutants are quite different than those of the average human being.
you designed this yourself?
actually, magneto helped me put it together.
he helped you?
we were friends once...  but that was a long time ago.
I have found her, westchester mall.
I will go.
you should always work with a spotter.
he is busy right now.
i was thinking maybe you and me could go into town.
were you now?
what do you say?
not interested.
let go.
suit yourself.
he is uptight.
he takes his work seriously.
he takes himself seriously.
what is it you are failing to get at? are you interested in me?
logan, do you see this ring?
I have seen a lot of rings.
yeah, I will bet you have.
i do love a good check mate.
what do you want?
come with me and I will let her live.
you think i care about her?  I am the only one who is sure to walk out of here.
what is wrong with him?
his vital signs are weak and getting weaker.
what does that mean?
the neuro-filter acts like a surge protector, regulating the infinite flow of information from cerebro to the professor's mind.  it is what keeps him from being crushed by the consciousness of millions.
can the professor repair his own mind?
I am afraid without cerebro's help, he will not have the strength to heal himself -- and without the neuro- filter... there is no cerebro.
he is already losing control of his vitals.  respiratory.  cardiovascular. unless we manage to replace the filter by tomorrow morning, I am afraid.
we have to find magneto.
are you all right?
no.  i'm...  i do not know if we can do this without charles.
dr. grey.
senator?
I am sorry to come here, ms. grey.  i was afraid if i went to a hospital, they would...
treat you like a mutant?  we are not what you think.  not all of us.
tell it to the ones that did this to me.
the mutant gene tells the body when it needs to change.
i can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.
it appears as though magneto has built a machine which somehow triggers the mutator gene in normal human beings. and he is using adamantium as its core.
its core?
thomas edison knew how to make the light bulb.  he had the energy source. he had the vacuum.  but he did not have the filament.  he tried metal after metal but nothing would hold to power.
... until he found tungsten.
correct...  apparently, adamantium is the only metal strong enough to hold the energy this machine produces.  he used the adamantium in logan's dog tag to test it on the senator.  and i assume now he plans to use the rest of logan's skeleton for a larger demonstration.
for what purpose?
yes -- only there is a problem.  the mutator gene is not responding to the radiation the way it would in mother nature.  it is forcing the body's cells to replicate thousands of times faster than they are accustomed to.  the senator's body is literally burning itself out.  scott -- this machine kills people and i do not think magneto realizes it.
so where do you think he is planning this larger demonstration?
i wish i could go.
we all do.
storm.  try to look for the highest vantage point. from what i can figure, he will need to gain as much altitude as possible to blanket the island.  it is my feeling that magneto has to--
beast.
hey.  I am sorry.  about logan.  i was jealous.
well, i think that is perfectly understandable.
I will tell you one thing though.
what is that?
he calls me sport one more time, and I will blow a watermelon-sized hole through him.
radar stealth mode checks out.  all right, there'll be less security north of the george washington bridge.  I am taking her down.
into the hudson?
uh-huh.
where am i?
you are backstage at the encore of creation.
what are you going to do?
in the road to survival, there is always sacrifice logan.  we are the future... not them.  we must protect ourselves.  after tonight, when the leaders of the world return home -- they will return as brothers, as mutants... and our cause will be theirs.  this is survival, i know you understand that, logan... or is it wolverine?
I am going to assume that means that the secret service is out of commission.  jean, can you raise me up there?
it is too far.
storm, rogue, -- you take the south entrance.  jean and i will go in here.
jean... can you?
I am sorry.  I am not strong enough.
I am o.k.  I am o.k.
sure you are, sport.
do not you knock?
they are all asking how you are doing. are you feeling up to saying hello to everyone?
actually I am feeling up to leaving.
why?  you have a home here now, if you want it.  everyone will...
what?... miss me?  charley, I am going to walk out the front door and trust me, it will not be soon enough for everyone here.
i would not really have let you die, you know.  i just needed...
i know.
does not it ever wake you in the middle of the night?  the feeling that some day, some day very soon, they will pass that foolish law - or one just like it - and they will come for you and your children?  take you all away?
it does indeed, max.
and what do you do when you wake up to that?
i feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul who comes to that school again looking for trouble.
