what do you have?
not a whole helluva lot. his final transmission was mangled. about something or someone called "ahab". whatever it is, it cost him his life.
he was the best there was. that makes three agents lost.
they are ruthless and they have a lot of firepower. it is only a matter of time before they figure out how to deploy silent night. then we are going to have a catastrophe on our hands.
silent night in the hands of a bunch of impertinent cowboys
we are going to have to step in, sam. those cia boys could not find a clown in a field of cactus. let me take care of it.
how will you fix it?
I will go in with a team. but first I am going to need some intel. I will have to put someone inside, someone new, someone they will not see coming. one of their own.
so you will dredge the bottom again. you have done that before. the results were... uneven.
you wanna find out about rats, ask a rat. I have had my people put together a talent pool. i downloaded it to your desktop.
the usual prospects. convicts, contract killers, murde...
the scum of the earth.
but programmable. and expendable.
I have seen enough. turn it off.
they are degenerates. there is not a man in there that would give a damn if the chinese took over.
that is exactly why we need them.
hey, you do not need all this just to go on vacation. unless this am not for going on vacation...
I am through, xander.
i can see that. why?
you run around with maniacs jumping motorcycles in the desert, you break 36 bones crashing wave runners and snowboarding off cliffs, all with no health insurance... it is insane, i can not take it anymore.
I am having fun, what is the problem?
you have all this talent, and you waste it. you will not take a single endorsement deal. meanwhile those other guys have their own video games! but no, you have got too much "integrity" for that.
i do not wanna go mersh, you know that. but hey, if this is about money...
french polynesia? this would not last us a week in a cheap hotel. do you know how expensive it is down there?
alright, so I will get more.
it is not about the money, x! you never plan for anything. i can not live like that anymore, i need some stability.
well if you are bailing, i guess I would better give you your surprise now.
what...?
i was gonna wait till the islands, but...
you are serious?
of course I am serious. i bought it, did not i?
this is so typical. i can not believe you. I have barely seen you for the last three weeks and now this? are you out of your mind?
i do not know. i thought this is what you wanted. you want stability, here it is.
you can not just propose to me out of nowhere. you think that is going to solve our problems? I am sorry, x. it was a kick for a while, but it is over. you are just not going anywhere.
you are not exactly "going anywhere" yourself.
you are wrong about that. I am heading out that door right now.
who the hell are you?
the name's gibbons. you were saying?
what is this place?
looks like a diner.
diner, huh? let me tell you what the problem is. i wake up drugged to find what? you have got a "salesman" over here reading a three week old newspaper. he is pulling a 211 with a "trucker", who happens to be packing a cop issue h&k 9mm. i get tipped that something is going down when she passes me a note. how is that for twisted logic? how did she know there was trouble unless they pulled the guns before i "walked" in? and if that is true, why did they stop and wait until i woke up to gaffle the money? then i notice how beefy they both are. hell, even the waitress is cut. all three of them look like they went through the same training program. ergo they am not strangers and this is not what it seems. that is how i knew yo-yo would not get a round off even if i gave him all day. why?
most guys we ran through this either took off or helped them rob the place. i expected you to do the same.
that shows me already that you do not have a clue. what is it to you, anyway?
whether you thought this was for real or not, you jumped in and helped the waitress on instinct. that tells me something about your character.
good for you. now why do not you stop wasting my time and tell me what you want. you did not go through all this for my benefit.
it is your lucky day. you just might get the chance to pay back our wonderful country for all the freedom you enjoy.
a fed, i shoulda known. who else would have this kind of budget? now you are going to hit me with the sales pitch.
alright, cage, you have got me. this is one of those moments. "many are called, few are chosen", that kind of thing. your government needs you. are you up for the challenge?
..if you are trolling around for narcs, man, have you got the wrong guy.
why is that?
look at me, dude, do i look like a fan of law enforcement? forget the tests, you shoulda just asked me. i woulda saved you a lot of trouble.
oh i do not know, i think the tests work pretty well. sometimes they give me answers you would not admit to in a million years.
are we done now? you have got nothing on me. so if you am not booking me, I am walking.
you have got this wrong. you are not under arrest, you have been abducted. and until i say different, you belong to me.
is that a fact?
sure as gravity. I have had a feeling about you from the start, cage. it is nausea.
you know what i hate? any scumbag with a clean shirt and a bad haircut can get one of those tin stars and suddenly they think they are god.
you know what i hate? it is always the assholes that pass the tests.
what is so damn funny?
been to any good diners lately?
heads up, man. what is this thing on my back?
a parachute. this does not argue well.
whatchu doing here?
oh, i do not know. it was an accident.
that is some accident, hombre. you accidentally fall out of a plane in the middle of the night and land up in my back yard.
we seen this kind of parachutes before, you know. u.s. army. you got some friends here, jump out with you guys?
we are anti-social. we do not have any friends.
who is writing this dude's dialogue?
he is a pretty good actor, though.
we are on to the game, ese. you got the fake blood splattered all over the walls, you got your torture tools... it is all very cute. but come on, let's quit while you are ahead. I am only trying to save you a beatin'.
you saving me? you talking pretty tough for a guy got himself chained to the ceiling.
alright. you wanna eat through a tube, be my guest.
now you are going to make me enjoy this, funny guy. now I am going to take the whole foot off. whatchu think of that?
help me with this guy.
it is like you said, every man for himself.
they are all over the place! what the hell's going on?
looks like we are in the middle of the drug war.
congratulations, you have just graduated at the head of your class.
you are a cold piece of work. you almost got three people killed out there.
good thing you were there to save the day. come walk with me.
you have really got me confused, cage. on the one hand you showed leadership, courage under fire, a willingness to protect men you hardly knew... and on the other you have an arrest record that pegs you as near sociopathic. help me out here. I am not following your evolution.
you want the cheap backstory? the runaway mom, the suicide dad and the foster homes? gimme a break. you are not interested in my past, you are interested in my future as some kind of spy.
you are perceptive too. i forgot to add that to the list of surprises. I am with the national security agency. and unlikely as it may sound, i need your help.
I am not interested. I have already got a job.
you are an adrenaline junkie with one foot in the penitentiary. you risk your ass building a daredevil myth that means nothing and you are not getting any younger.
i plan on getting a lot older. and playing spy games sounds like a quick way to get yourself dead.
that is too bad. i thought a guy like you would appreciate the challenge.
now I am the one who is nauseous. so what is the deal? what do you need me for?
there is some folks i want to keep tabs on. dirty, tattooed, uncivilized. your kind of people.
what do i get out of it?
if you find out what i want to know, and if I am able to successfully use that information, you get to go back to your degenerate little life. if not, you take a bath.
you are one sick bastard. a sadist with a badge looking to rope me in to a suicide mission. i think no matter which way i go I am likely to wind up face down on a sheet of plastic. so here's my answer: kiss my ass, hop-along.
not bad for a gimp.
what is with that "x" on the back of your head? does that mean you are "extreme"? I have got some news for you, mr. x, you are a three time loser. so maybe you should tattoo another couple of x's on your head.
how about a pedicure as long as you are down there. what is this? lo-jack?
wherever you go on the planet, I will find you. there is no quitting. if you try to take it off, a ring of needles will inject enough curare into your bloodstream to kill you before you hit the ground. is all that clear?
yeah, i spy or i die.
i expect you to call in regularly with progress reports.
fine, but I am not going to be no bulldog omega 5.
up yours.
crude and defiant as always, triple x. it fits so well because you are obscene.
is that all?
just remember, I will be watching.
what game is that?
slick graphics, huh? see these dudes? they are called "anarchy 99", they are the bad guy bosses.
do they have any special powers? the bosses always have special powers.
you wanna check it out? come here.
next we got a siberian redneck, viktor. into snowmobiles and snowboarding. so naturally, he covers prostitution and the drug trade.
naturally.
this guy's kinda dorky lookin'.
kirill, the sniper. looks like a bookworm, but he had 72 confirmed kills in chechnya, they called him the "finger of god". assassination and weapons.
yorgi masterminded the take-over of three red mafiya clans. cops called it "blood week". he combined all of their global enterprises into one huge crime syndicate: anarchy 99.
"anarchy" 99"?
what are you going to do? they are euro- trash.
what weapons do you have?
just about anything i want, it looks like. this is going to be tough, though. there is no way to save this game. i got to get it right the first time through.
what do you get if you finish?
nothing, really. my guy is just doing it to stay alive.
oh. i bet by the end he gets something out of it.
like what?
he gets to be the hero.
sit down.
I have been on a plane for twelve hours, i think I will stand.
my name is slovo, czech secret police. when you are here you are under my jurisdiction, you take my orders, you do what i say. if you become any kind of an inconvenience, I will shoot you.
here we go again.
you are here because your government is putting pressure on my government. this is an internal affair, a czech affair, that you are interfering with. i will warn you once: do not shit in my lawn. get whatever information your government seeks and get our.
first of all, you should kill whoever sold you that suit. two, i do not wanna be here either, so just step off. three, if you had the authority to shoot me you would have done it by now, so just ease up on the machismo, bitch. now that we have got that sorted out, I am going to get some rest.
nice hops.
the corner. anarchy 99.
that is the guy.
this pizda? never seen him before.
who you workin' for? what do you do for a living, dickhead?
cops. like a plague. no matter how many you pay there is always another with his hand out. how did you pick him out?
he flashed his badge to half the bar when he bought his drink.
i appreciate you bringing this to our attention. whatever you want, the rest of the night, consider it on the house.
thanks, but I am here on business. i heard you are the g around here. I am looking for some cars, expensive ones. a lot of them.
sorry, man, do not know what you are talking about.
I am talking about the sports cars that disappear off the docks in genoa and wind up here. if you do not know about 'em, who does?
i remember that one where you jump the motorcycle over the freeway at rush hour.
when else are you gonna do it?
we seen all your shit! so you want cars? we get whatever cars you need. what are you looking for?
ferrari's, lamborghini's... high end pasta rockets. ten to start.
ten is hardly worth the effort. we are talking a lousy million five u.s.
i have japanese buyers who are looking to move a fleet, if you have the quality of merchandise they are after. and it is a mil two, max.
do you know what a wire transfer is?
is she for real? honey, maybe you should quiet down and let the grownups have a conversation.
my goodness, a word with four syllables. i should get some ice before your brain gets too hot.
sure. just chisel some off your heart.
so cute. he shows up for a battle of wits with a mental butter knife.
do not look at me, x, she handles all the details.
it will work faster if i have an account number.
i guess you got my e-mail. i set up a purchase. ten cars.
if you are trying to push my buttons, you are on the right track. do not make me question my own judgment, x.
buddy, you sent me here to get close to their organization, that costs money.
one point two million dollars? i did not authorize you to spend one point two million dollars!
I am already on a first name basis with these dudes, i got a deal set up, you want me to hammer it or not?
we are not after car thieves here.
what the hell am i after? you are telling me dick.
that information is classified. you are there to gather information on their operations, period.
call me crazy, but i thought hooking up a million dollar deal was a great way to get on their good side. what else? you gonna hassle me about the weapons and spy stuff too?
my friend, if you are planning on crossing me...
i know, poison needles in my shins. you have got 36 hours. peace, out.
ridiculous. cut him off. I am sorry gibbons, you pulled up a shark this time.
i think we should send him whatever he wants.
you what? a wire transfer of this size?
if it means getting silent night back, absolutely.
you are talking about a very expensive risk here.
he is gotten closer in 24 hours than all of the other operatives combined. he got us an account number to boot. now even if he is just dumb and lucky, i say we back his play.  i put him out there, sam. if he does not come up with the money, they will kill him. i can not let that happen.
why not? you were going to throw him in a tub full of acid, were not you?
alright, do what you want. but keep the screws on him. he is a wild card. that could be either good or bad.
so the odds are up to fifty-fifty? i can deal with that.
hate those russkie choppers. rattle- trap pieces of garbage. I am agent shavers. toby lee shavers. I am looking for what is his name. three x' s.
that is would be me.
I will leave you two alone to talk.
yeah, thanks a lot.
back off, just go away you klutz. alright, here's the story. the items in these cases belong to me. i designed them, built them, and was going to use them in the field myself until you showed up.
i stole your beat, huh? guess you forgot to brown-nose the right people.
is that supposed to be funny? I am not laughing. I have worked for ten years to get my shot at being a field agent, funny boy. and ar the last minute i get bumped by you, some reject from the ozzfest.
why do not you show me some gear before you get hurt.
listen to you. right away, sir, anything you say, sir.
miniature power cams set in on contact, giving you a sure grip on any surface.
they come in any other styles or colors?
this is your standard dart gun.
that one I am real familiar with.
i think I will hang on to these.
think again, that is government property. you have to sign for everything. I have got one more that was not on your list.
from the beastie boys collection?
it is a stakeout suit. it is got food, water, recording gear, anything you need for covert spying. it is all- weather, fire retardant, and if you give this buckle a sharp pull, the whole outfit deploys into a parachute.
you are joking, right?
now that I have given you the overview, we are going to spend the next couple hours going into extensive operational detail.
i thought that was in detail.
nothing. he had two days.
perhaps he is not all he says he is.
very nice. I am impressed.
I am somewhat less so. we seem to have a bit of a problem...
i had to inspect the merchandise first.
of course.
what is this?
this is a gift. from me to you.
what is going on, my friend?
you tell me! you got a sniper up there or what?
he is not with us, xander. he must be with you.
bullshit! you get your boy off that roof or i swear to god I am going to give you another hole to breathe out of.
i do not believe it! you can not shoot a cop in the middle of the street!
had to do what i had to do.
total chaos, man! welcome to anarchy 99!
what is "anarchy 99"?
it is all this craziness! it is what we have been living since 99, when we left the army. one of our brothers died in grozny and we said the hell with this shit. what for? he dies for what? politics? who is politics? not ours.
you wanna see my politics?
screw the world. if I am going to die for something, it better be bitches and money.
that is what I am talking about, man! that is why anarchy 99 was born.
to us it means no walls, no speed limits, no jails. it is everybody does what he wants. people think democracy is freedom but they do not have a clue. there is an old punk song. it says: "america stands for freedom, but if you think you are free..."
"...try walking into a deli and urinating on the cheese". 'anarchy burger' by the vandals.
you got it, man. it is stupid but it is true. true freedom is when you do whatever you want anytime you want. that is when you know you are living, man.
how you gonna do that with government and rules everywhere?
easy. you get enough money that you grow an ass big enough for the whole world to kiss.
if you got a problem with me, why are we dancing?
yorgi asked me to.
you do everything yorgi says?
go to hell.
it is going to be like that, huh? you got all bent out of shape as soon as he started dancing with someone else. why is that?
mind your business.
did you guys used to date? that is it, right? he broke your heart and you are still soft on him. that is funny, it do not seem to fit with a tough broad like you.
where are you going?
why are you still hanging around? your business is finished, you should go home.
i was invited. what is your story?
i do not know who you are or where you come from, but i do not like you. you ask too many questions.
come on, do not front like that. you will put a guy right off you.
do not even bother, x man, I am not your type.
that right? why is that?
you got a great set-up here yorgi. you really know how to live.
it is a beautiful town, prague. it is been good to me.
I have been here before, when i was a kid. my old man was in the service, we used to live on the army base in hamburg.
you, an army brat? i do not see that one at all. did you join the service as well?
hell no. my dad was a straight up tin soldier. somehow he pissed this general off and got himself dishonorably discharged. had a court martial and everything. the charges were total bullshit, so he was sure he would get his name cleared, but it did not happen.
connections and politics, it is the same everywhere.
my old man, he bought into the system, and it screwed him. so he swallowed a bullet. me, i do not believe in nothing i can not see and touch.
I have got meetings this afternoon, I have got to get some sleep. just pick a girl.
that is alright, I am kinda tired.
you want to insult me? this is my hospitality. pick one.
who are you?
we hung out last night, remember?
i also remember you drove your car here. who are you really? make no mistake, i will shoot you and not feel bad about it. who are you working for?
hey, take it easy. I am just a dude trying to make a buck.
bullshit. i see you look at everything, study everything, ask questions. i know exactly what you are doing. empty your pockets.
you have got to relax, baby, you are paranoid.
hey, you are good.
maybe we should start again, yes? i know so little about you, except that you are not what you say you are.
that makes two of us then, sweetheart, because i am not buying your bullshit either. you are not like them, i can see it in your eyes. so you tell me, who is bullshitting who?
i do not know what you are talking about.
the eyes do not lie. all this has gotten to you, has not it, petra? you came in as yorgi's girlfriend and you stayed because it was fun. now you do not like it so much, but you are in so deep you can not get out anymore. tell me if I am wrong, petra.
go to hell!
look at you. you are helping run things now. you are a gangster. i bet that snuck up on you. you woke up one day and you were a criminal.
what are you?
I am an information gatherer. you wanna go somewhere and talk about it?
that is how you eat? it is like a gerbil.
I am from l.a.
so why do not you tell me something about who you gather information for. they obviously have very deep pockets. are you from a rival clan?
let's just say I am freelancing and leave it at that.
whoever sent you knew what they were doing. you and yorgi are practically twins. two nihilistic fashion victims who make a lot of noise but do not say much.
do not judge a comic book by it is cover.
you agree with a lot of what he says, do not you.
i know where he is coming from. the only thing i really do not get is why he dumped you. up until i found that out, i thought his judgment was pretty sound.
do not even start. I will be honest, i do not trust you. bur lets pretend for a minute that what you say is true, that i want to leave. what can you do about it?
the people i know want facts, the kinds of things an insider would know. they are interested in putting anarchy 99 out of business.
all i have to do is risk my life providing you with these facts.
we could work together. then maybe we could both get the hell out of here. there is a beach in bora bora with my name on it.
a beach named x? that I would like to see.
so there you have it. i guess you just have to ask yourself, how bad to you want out?
they tell me you are an american agent.
what are you talking about?
there is no more time for games. they made you. there is a sniper out front waiting to put a bullet in your eye. tell me if it is true.
it is a long story, but yeah, more or less.
jesus christ. you are going to have to go out the back. the data that you copied with your toy. tomorrow, at six o'clock. look it up. we are taking a trip. be there at six and you will have plenty to tell your people.
if i go out the back, he will know you have warned me.
that is alright, I will figure something out.
not an option. just get up slowly like everything's cool. petra, trust me. you just hung yourself out to dry for me, I am not going to let you down.
i can not let this happen. i want you to go out the back. I will make up some excuse.
they will kill you, you know they will. besides, there is no back door. keep smiling. ready? now.
what are you doing?
it all happened so fast. such an unfortunate accident.
what was that for?
I would forgotten how exciting it is working together.
you have been so quiet lately, petra, i thought you no longer cared.
why do not we go below decks and work off some of this adrenaline.
viktor! stay the course.
you did say "ahab"? you are sure about that?
yeah, i sent you pictures. here's what I am thinking. if they take out the cameras and sensors, they could probably put a bomb in this thing. you drop it in the water in the red sea and three weeks later it is swimming up the potomac.
this is good work, x, damn fine work. you need to press on at all costs, find out what they have planned with this "ahab".
hey, one miracle at a time. they are on to me now, remember?
I am going to be en route with a team shortly to relieve you. just keep the pressure on until the cavalry arrives. and x? you done yourself proud helping those people today.
thanks.
you are a grungy little phoenix, you know that? keep up the good work.
you am not seen nothing yet.
so what is the plan with this ahab? are they selling it or what?
no, something worse. he says it is a surprise, but i know him. this is his masterpiece.
we have got to find out what it is. can you handle that?
there is something i did not have time to tell you before.
what is that?
I am a agent as well. kgb. I have been undercover for over a year.
you are what? what the hell have you been doing?
i do not know. eight months ago i stop hearing from my people. no explanation, just silence. so i stay and i wait like i was told. soon I am in so far, they would kill me if i left. now every day i get farther and farther away from what i was. I am like you said, a criminal.
I am busted up for you, but jesus, what the hell are you doing? those people almost drowned on that boat and you did not lift a finger.
no, i guess I have been no help at all to you.
get your head back in the game. there are lives at stake here.
of course. I will do what i can. i have to go, before they notice.
when can i see you again?
you can't, it is too risky. I am not much help anyway, remember?
dude, what are you doing here?
you killed me, remember? now i have to hide out here with you. where have you been?
i found something big enough for us to take these guys down with. they have got a of nerve agent they are going to unleash.
is this what you are looking for?
sorry, "dude".
what is the deal?
oh come on, do not feel bad. you got played, so what? you are new at this. did you think you could just stroll into this business one day and have all the angles figured out?
why you dogging me up?
they came and found me. they said they would kill me unless i help them. plus they offer me a lot of money. no big deal. these things happen. dump your gun on the floor.
are you alright?
what the hell are you doing? you could have killed me!
i heard you talking. i could tell where you were in the room.
i do not know what is going on anymore. i thought i was square with that dude. now everybody's switching sides like it is the wwf.
what are you doing with the ivans?
i know which cops are good and which are bad. come with me. come on, right now.
where are we going?
we are getting out of this place. we have done enough.
wait a minute, whoa. we can not go now. what is yorgi got planned with that nerve agent?
it does not matter anymore, forget it.
of course it matters. hey, hold on!
what do we owe our governments? yours kidnapped you, mine abandoned me.
petra, this am not about the people that sent us here, you know that.
no, now it is about us. let's do something for us before we both get killed. do not you want to get to bora bora, xander?
we can not leave now. we have to do something.
why? you are the one who believes in nothing. screw the world, or whatever you said.
they left. to a fortress in the mountains.
we will have to go after them.
are not you afraid?
a long time ago i learned how to put fear away in a little place in my head. maybe that is my problem. if you do not feel fear you can do some amazing things, but you can also screw your life up in ways you can not imagine.
i must be healthy, then, because I am scared to death. i guess I would better get back to yorgi.
you do not have to do that.
yes, i do. you are right. i can not just let him go free. besides, i can help you from the inside.
are not they going to wonder were you have been?
i was supposed to wait for the cop to kill you and then kill the cop. they will believe me.  I have been lying for so long, one more time will not hurt.
when this is over, we are just going to take off, the two of us. take a vacation.
what the hell are we doing? we are doing all this together, trusting each other, making plans, and we have not even slept together yet.
snow covered fortress. army of bad guys. the usual.
I am on the way with a team to relieve you. what is the latest?
they retrofitted ahab with some kind of rocket launcher. they were loading canisters of liquid into it, light colored and dark colored in the same tube but separate. something tells me this it that "classified" stuff you did not want me to know about. does the song "silent night" mean anything to you?
yes it does.
come on, gibbons, you can do better then that.
silent night is the name of a top secret binary nerve agent. the glass canister is shot into the air and detonated. the black and white chemicals mix, forming a toxic cloud. when it settles down to earth, it will kill everything in the vicinity.
jesus christ, gibbons, this is something we came up with?
yeah, that is right. so now that you know, you understand why it is important that we get it back.
kinda funny, though, is not it? we are not supposed to be making weapons like that anyway. guess we shoulda played by the rules.
somebody else makes those decisions, not guys like you and me. you have done your job, x, head back to prague. I will be landing in 90 minutes. this is my operation now.
we do not have that kinda time, boss, i do not think prague's going to be around much longer. I have got to go now. I have got a lot of bad guys to kill.
that was for anders.
do not forget goatee boy. i greased him up on the diamond run.
and you. why do you have such a problem staying away, my friend? did you miss us that much?
i wanted to get the hell out of prague before silent night falls.
not bad, man, not bad. you put things together quick. prague it is.
the peace conference...
nice place to start, do not you think?
what is the gimmick, yorgi? that is the part i do not get. you going to hold the world hostage with your gas bombs? i did not think you were dumb enough to go with that hack cliche.
you think I am after money? i told you, my friend. anarchy. time for a change. money is good, but for true freedom you have to get rid of the rules themselves.
so all by yourself, you are going to destroy every government; in the world.
easier than that, buddy. I will get them to destroy each other. you kill an entire peace conference, someone is going to have to pay. then our friend ahab continues down the river to the ocean and begins his world tour. london, cairo, beijing... pretty soon everyone's involved. these guys bomb those guys, those guys invade these guys. soon the whole world is like your wild west cowboy days. no rules, no law, everybody free to do what they want.
including rape, pillage, murder.
sure, if that is what you want. why not? it is all human nature. so we just have to launch our baby and wait for the decline and fall of civilization as we know it.
and here i thought "anarchy" was just something cool to put on a tshirt.
come on, xander. you used to stand for something. what happened to you, man? i thought you would get it.
do not you see, x? for the betterment of humanity, he is going to start world war three.
he is a regular humanitarian. and all this time i thought he was just a tool.
you both could have been a part of it. you could have ridden with us into a new day, the dawning of a new age of --
oh just shoot us already. I am sorry i asked.
yorgi and kirill.
let me guess, they had a big white torpedo with them.
did you do your homework?
if they launch it, i know how to bring it back.
let's do this.
where is he headed?
he owns a big industrial complex on the river. he will launch it from there.
where did the damn truck go?!
go to the water, it is that way!
toadies right behind.
let me.
you okay?
a piece of shrapnel hit me.
I am sick of that guy. let's stop playing nice.
he is shut out the communication circuit!
you can not talk to it?
no, it is like a safety. we are going to have to access the manual controls.
a manual control on a moving torpedo. this day keeps getting better and better.
it is running three meters down. twenty knots.
it has to surface to release the nerve agent, right?
by then it is too late! the only way to safely dispose of the nerve agent is in deep water! the chemicals will break down and dissipate!
use your grenades! maybe we can blow it up underwater!
thought you bought the farm down there, x. glad as hell to see you.
I am pretty happy to see me too. so are you done with me yet?
you have kept up your end of the bargain, I will do the same. but you really should consider staying on, you make a decent agent.
but i hate cops, remember? except for her.
cut the crap, x, i saw you down there. you are a hero. do not be afraid to join the good guys.
who says you are the good guys?
you know what they say, the only way to change the system is from the inside.
oh yeah? why do not we start by taking this thing off my ankle? the poison needles?
on come on, x. did you really think we were that barbaric?
no needles, huh? what about the acid bath?
all for show. just a psychological mind game to get you to do the right thing.
you are a jerk-off, you know that?
i can not believe my mission is finally over. i do not even know what to do with myself.
you can not welch on me now. we had a deal.
what are you doing?
it is about your next mission. you need to be debriefed.
